ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, TV sets, and radio audiences. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Put your cards in. Focus. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:25]] There were 260 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. I declare that in accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to the minutes of the meeting of the “Our Ukraine” faction of 21 July, elected Vice-President of the “Our Ukraine” faction Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. We'll know about it. The issue of the holding of out - of - turn elections for individual urban and rural heads is being considered. Reports the Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. On March 26, 2006, Rutin village head was elected Slutka Alla Ivanovna. [[village of Rutince Krolevetsky district of Sumu district]] Prior to being elected as the head of the village, she was the senior master of the Rutin Professional Agrarian List. On May 12, 2006, Slucka Alla Ivanovna made a personal application to the Rutin Rural Council for her authority of the village head at her own request. As noted in the explanation, she was moved by family circumstances. The question of the conclusion of the Slutsky Rural Head’s mandate was considered in accordance with legislation at the session of the Rutin Rural Council on May 12, 2006. The committee considered this issue and proposed to appoint the Rautin Rural Head election on Sunday, October 15, 2006. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, are there questions? None. Is that clear? Can we vote? Then I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Rutin Rural Head of the Krolewetsk district of Sumsk district, bill number 1196. Please vote. [[10:05:02]] For 281. It's been decided. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u4	On March 26, the village of Zhukov Volodymira Volodymyrovic, the village of Kanava in the Kobeljak district of Poltava, was elected as the head of the village of Žukov Volodymira Volodymyrovic. He was chosen as a village head, with 280 votes or 73 percent of the number of voters. On April 21, 2006, Zhukov Vladimir Volodymyrovich made a personal statement to the Canavian Rural Council about his responsibilities as a village head in connection with his election as head of the Kobelík District Council. The question of the making of the village head’s authority by the Beetle was discussed at the April 29, Canada’s Rural Council. The committee considered the matter and offered to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u5	No questions? Then I put to the vote the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of Canada, the head of the country, this is the Kobelyci district of Poltav district, registration number of Bill 1197. Please vote. [[10:06:48]] For – 296. It's been decided. Please. Vladimir Vasilovich, everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u6	Everyone, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u7	Then I have a question. We decided on that, and as far as I know, three of our colleagues, Kirovograd, Chernigu, and Poltava, filed applications for their release from the city. What is the situation with the appointment of city heads from Kirovogradski, Cherkaskie? Chernigian, I'm sorry, and Poltavaski, because Cherkassi is a different situation? Appointed Elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u8	Adam Ivanovich, we discussed this question on the committee yesterday on Poltava, where Rudekovsky’s Mayor Mikolayayovich was also.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u9	Cuckoo. There was a Cuckoo in Poltava.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u10	And Cuckoo. And in Chernigov, Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich. We didn't bring the committee up to date because we decided to clarify it on the budget committee at the Central Electoral Commission for the financing of these elections. And they decided to do that for a few days and make an offer to the Supreme Council to hold the elections there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u11	Well, they're not from the State Budget, from the locals, yeah. What is the reason why your hands are raised?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u12	About what? I don't see here in the committee's decision that Matthews has a special opinion. Please log in with the procedure for five minutes. Yes, please, five minutes, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, behind him is Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u13	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you and, Vladimir Vasilovich, you. The rules, regardless of the decision taken by the committee, oblige the head of the committee to inform the rapporteur of any decisions that were discussed yesterday. And the Committee's rejection doesn't mean automatic voting in the room. The Supreme Council can make a decision that is different from the decision of the committee. So I'd like to ask Vladimir Vasilovich that you never use information in the Supreme Council again, but to speak to the fullest extent how this was discussed and what the decision was taken by the committee. And that's why I want to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, there are draft decrees, they're given about both Poltava and Chernigov. We have no reason to reject these decisions, because whether there's a million or a million thousand, it's not in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u14	Please, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u15	I'll give you an answer, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u16	Vladimir, you're after when they're all here, yes. Please take notes. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u17	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, now we're talking about the mayor of Chernigov and Poltava, but we still have the city of Kirovograd. In the city of Kirovograd, Mayor Calchenko Valeriy Mihajlovich was elected. I didn't hear you had information about the city of Kirovograd. Calchenko is also elected as a national deputy, and it is clear that according to the Constitution, he can only have one mandate. So, please tell me, was the question being considered by the committee or not, or is it in two chairs by now? Sadly, though, the entire city of Kirovograd suffers. A certain paralysing of power, that's exactly what it refers to in the BUTU party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u18	Thank you. Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u19	Please, Moses. Vladimir Vasilovich, you're next on all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u21	Yes, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I want to finish my opinion, Adam Ivanovich. And I'd like to ask, if there's three seconds left, let me make a deal. Thus, we are obliged today to ask questions about the vote on Poltava in the same way as on these two rural councils, and on the Chergigov, since these questions are being considered and there is no reason to reject them, since 130 days from now the right to head the city and the other secretary will end. And, in practice, there is no authority in these cities, which means that the Supreme Council is insinuating the insubordination and violation of the Constitution. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you as chairman to put these two rulings to a vote, taking into account, of course, an explanation of the committee's head as many as 11 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u23	Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u24	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u25	Please, Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u26	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. The point is, Adam Ivanovich, that, indeed, local elections, including, and repeated, extracurricular ones, are financed at the expense of state funds. local budget, but allocated as a subsidy from the State Budget. As a result, in fact, the issue of the allocation of funds should now be taken care of, not by the local authorities, but by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because of that, the committee should have been primarily to the Cabinet of Ministers, not to the Central Electoral Commission, which is actually only doing the law in this section, and it's not making any proposals. Let's say we make a proposal for a possible corrosive. At the same time, I believe that these proposals are unfounded, since the funds for the elections are provided for in the National Budget of Ukraine for this year. More recently, there was a press conference by the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, who reported on the actual report after the election that more than 114 were held.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u27	Please, Bulba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u28	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I support Anatoly Matviennek's proposal on the need to make a decision and on the election of a city head in Poltava, especially in Poltava, because I repeat, if we don't make that decision, we may have a repeat of the situation that we have experienced last year. The Supreme Council is obliged to make that decision. As far as the money is concerned. Costs for these things are defined, order of use is defined. And let's be able to figure out at Poltava's level about actual preparation for elections and conduct. There can be no situation for a city, a large city, to work again in an uncertain state regarding the city’s head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u29	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, please, to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. We were actually on the committee yesterday, both Poltava and Chernigs, and the majority of the committee's votes, 11 members of the committee, voted not to make this election proposal today in Poltava and in Chernig. For a few days, explain all the questions that are still there and make a proposal to the committee. And we, Adam Ivanovich, will make such a decision at the meetings of the Supreme Council. As far as Kirovograd is concerned, I have not yet seen these materials on the committee, so today we will find them if they are materials, and we will definitely consider them immediately. We send letters to both the Cabinet of Ministers and local election agencies today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u31	Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we've already exchanged procedures. Suggestions. Anatoly Sergiyovich, Anatoly Sergiyovich, you've already asked me questions, I answer them. Now I'm going to answer and you're going to hear it. Dear colleagues, as chairman, I have put to the vote those draft regulations that I have. In this case, there are draft regulations from the committee. If the members of the committee disagreed with the decision of most members of the committee, no one denied them the right of legislative initiative on their own, to make a separate draft decision. There's going to be a motion for a ruling from Anatoly Matvienka, and we're going to vote on it, and that's one moment. Second, I would very much ask, really, not to be selective. And I'm paying attention to what Mikola Sadowa was talking about here, so it's not just two cities, and not only these two of our colleagues have been making a statement that they're going to authorize city heads, it's the city head of Kirovgrad. The more we entrusted him with an extremely important area, he became, and he became the head of the committee. So let's give a protocol commission to the committee: the coming days, the day, the two, all three decrees on Kirovgrad, Poltava and Chernigov to be considered by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u32	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you called mine too. You called mine, too. We exchanged lines. Thank you. About the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. Bill 1195 registration number. Please, the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u33	And you called mine, we exchanged lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with the requirements of Part Four, article 13 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee Act and the Committee’s work plan at its meeting on July 26, 2006, a draft calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was considered. According to section 7 of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it was previously directed to the MP factions in the Supreme Council. There are no comments on the project from the MP factions. In accordance with the requirements of article 83, part 1, of the Constitution, the project is proposed to start the plenary sessions of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 5, 2006. Its completion is scheduled for January 12, 2007. During this time, there are 10 weeks of plenary work, 5 weeks of committee and faction work and 4 weeks of electoral work, and 5 days of government in the Supreme Council. The committee proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! I'm asking Mikola Onichuk and Anatoly Sergiyovich to step aside and not to interfere. You will receive the word when it is given by the Rules. Is there a question for the Head of the Regulatory Committee? You don't? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Sulkowski, Szerbán.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u36	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! I don't have any questions. I have only, Adam Ivanovich, a request to put to the vote. Indeed, the Legislature Committee planned a faithful schedule for the work of the session. And I think we need to support this decision. And we'll continue on schedule for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u37	Please, itchy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u38	Please support the proposal, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u39	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u40	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Indeed, the Legislative Committee has been working on the document, and this document needs to be adopted. We have to work systematically, not from chance to case. We have to create a government in this room yesterday and the day after yesterday, to approve the Prime Minister accordingly. I am addressing everyone, and the MPs, and the officials, the teachers, so far not all of Ukraine have the opportunity to get paid in the last months, the vacations, so we still have to go down to the ground, to our sinful land, and worry about the voters we promised so much, but unfortunately, until now we don't keep those promises. Therefore, the Rules should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u41	It's not the Rules, it's the calendar work plan. Grigorovich Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u42	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. We are so easy to accept all the questions of the day, so virtually, so convinced that we are forgetting a series of events. That's why I'm asking you to give my word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u43	Knyazevitch, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the fact is that today is the fourth anniversary of the terrible tragedy that took place in the village of Sknilov. Remember, that's when 77 of our fellow citizens died. Unfortunately, my call to the presiding officer did not find a response in his heart, so he did not announce a moment of silence. At the same time, I point out that the victims, more specifically their relatives, have been seeking justice for the fourth year. They're looking for her in our courts, who haven't found the guilty, and they've only found those pilots who did the flying tasks, but they haven't brought any general to justice. They have never received a worthy compensation irrespective of the court’s decision to date. And to these grandparents who raised their grandchildren who lost their parents, they didn't get a measly 10, 20, 30 thousand bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u45	Please, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u46	The faction “Our Ukraine”, the Party of the Christian Democratic Union. I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u47	Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u48	Adam Ivanovich, I want to go back to the last question. . As the initiator of this decision, she registered a draft ruling that was discussed yesterday on a committee where there were two rural communities and two cities. The committee has no right to delete two orders and to file only a portion. I ask you to give me an assignment as to why this was done, why it was falsified, and why there is a violation of the Rules today, and why the deputies are not given over Poltava and Chernigov. And inform the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u49	Please, Kalts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u50	Please pass the word to the Deputy Sukhoma, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u51	Dryphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I have two questions about the calendar plan. Of course, it can be supported, but I do not see the section “Parliamentary Hearings” here. We're going to have this problem, you know, that the days of the government are going to go to the bottom of the government with different questions. We could then spread those issues that concern society in space, so to speak: one question on government day, one question on parliamentary hearings. This is the first time. And second. Here is the chapter “Working in committees and factions”. I understand that what you've written is a "voting job" that means "work in the districts". Two questions. The plenary. Parliamentary hearings? And how will work in the districts be planned?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u53	The calendar plan has been implemented in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. There are distributions when we work. The first Sunday we're doing a plenary session, the second Sunday goes to committee and factions, the third Sunday is the government's Day is being considered and the third week's electoral work is being considered. And separately, the government's days are marked accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the questions raised about the latter, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Working with voters is yesterday's work in the districts, because we're now in the same national district. That's why we work with voters. This is yesterday's county job. With regard to parliamentary hearings, you and I have to make a separate decision at each parliamentary hearing, which is then, with the order of the day, to hold parliamentary hearings. Although your opinion is correct in that respect, I would like to ask Alexander Sergiyovich to have the committee work on the next one, which would really be a day for parliamentary hearings, and the subject would then be further defined by the Supreme Council. And the days ahead of schedule and let's do it in the next session, we're going to do it in the third session, because we're going to do it in a way that sometimes we're going to have parliamentary hearings two and three times a day. Another question I'm going to answer is when we finish this question. Is there a need to discuss a work calendar? None. This is the constitutional norm that we have to start on the first Tuesday and the next session on the first Tuesday of September and the next session on the first Tuesday of February. If there is no objection, I am voting on the decision on the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call. Registration number 1195. Please vote. [[10:27:29]] For 303 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, please, let us respond to the suggestions that have been made here today, and let us pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the victims of the scandal. Thank you. Please sit down. And the question that we've been having is a hard discussion, I'm also addressing the committee of profile again, really, and the regulatory committee. Look, because it turns out that there was a decision by the national deputy, our colleague, we don't see it, and so on, it's not given to us, it's just the committee's rulings. I'm reminding you again. The committee may take the decision that it has made. But the committee is obliged to consider the legislative initiative of the subject of the initiative, whether it's the National MP, whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers, whether it's the President, whether it's the President, whether it's a positive decision, whether it's a negative decision by the committee. All legislative initiatives and decisions are taken in the session hall. But we've given a protocol commission, and I think for the next two or three days we'll come back to that question, and we're kind of solving it in the session room. A draft Order on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call is under consideration. Registration number 1165. Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u55	Good health, colleague, I have the honour and pleasure to present to you the first document that is the product of the work of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. This is a document supported unanimously. And as you can see, of the names on this document, they are representatives of all five factions that are represented in the Supreme Council. I can say that there's a standard selection of tools in this document that the country needs to see what's going on here in the Supreme Council, both good and bad. As a journalist, I can't help but say that, in fact, by form and by spirit, this document is considered by many to be "save" in some way, because it has methods that actually run from a session to a session. And I know that that's why this document sometimes causes some complaints to both the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine. I can also say that by working on this document, we have found that not all positions and positions in our First Session were carried out, particularly by the National Television Company of Ukraine. And that's why I hope that we're looking at this document for the last time in this form. For me and many colleagues, this is a serious argument in favour of a state television system in Ukraine replacing a quality European system of social television and radio. On the other hand, I can also say that yesterday the committee adopted a very important decision that will affect the language system in Ukraine. The committee considered a letter on the resignation of the Head of the Derteleradio John Chizh and adopted a decision: first, to recommend to Parliament that this request for resignation be met, and also.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u56	Andrew Vitaliyovich, please, this is not the subject of your conversation. You have an explanation. And Chi has nothing to do with it so far, because we haven't made up our minds yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u57	Okay, Adam Ivanovich. As far as the text of the document is concerned, the committee proposes to support this decision and we have a technical amendment, recommended by the lawyers of the Supreme Council's Office, and they propose to complete the first paragraph of this regulation with the words “for the cost of the State budget of Ukraine” – this is the cost code of the State Department and the lawyers of the Supreme Council's Apparatus say that it is necessary to pay properly all the things that we impose in the decision. [[by code 1700000]] So I propose to support this decision with this technical amendment that the lawyers have proposed, I think it will be our contribution to a successful country with transparent power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u58	Thank you, but it's not technical -- it's too serious. We'll support it, of course, because it's a cost, you know. Are there questions, fellow believers? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes of the Stepan Bubble.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I am a question and a wish, apparently, to the speaker. Let's still use less of those words in our official report from the Supreme Council rostrum, which may in principle be offensive to 47 million. Fellow countrymen who know their history lived in a country that you do not respect. And so I'm just asking, if there's anything to talk about, talk to me, if there's nothing to talk about, then get ready for the report. The question is very important, and we will normally support this draft decision. But I repeat: learn to respect not only yourself but others.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u60	I don't know if it was a question, I'm counting on the future. This is not about respect or respect for the country but about old methods and new methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u61	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u62	If they are not spoken, we simply will not hear the charming voice of Jaroslav the Dry. That's why I'm giving him my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u63	Yes. Please. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u64	We'll listen with pleasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Andrew Vitaliyovich, I have two short questions, they're working. Please see paragraph 2 of sub-paragraph 3. It's a full-scale broadcast. Or would it be inappropriate to consider other issues according to a separate decision, so that we don't have any arguments afterwards, but to predict what this might be like in full terms, such as closure, well, that kind of question, yes. And one last question. To what extent your decision, which will take effect as soon as we vote for it, will apply to the organization of state broadcasters in places, district, I mean. Whether it also regulates, because we very often have misunderstandings on the ground, we refer only to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, this is a general law, if it were in a decision, that would be easier for them to work with us and us in places with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. Under the third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2. We discussed and decided that there was no point in limiting matters that might need to be shown to the country in full. As far as district television companies are concerned, this document does not directly apply. But we can see that there's a different form. The Supreme Council, in particular, positions in paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u67	Yes. Please, Ledida.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u68	Alexander Ledida, Party of Regions. Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u69	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Shevchenko, as your colleague on the committee, and such a person who is also responsible for what you are proclaiming from the rostrum, I would very much ask you to refrain from slang for the future, from saying such as “cove” and so on. Parliamentary rostrum is no place for such expressions, with all our people still born in the Soviet Union. Whether we want it or not, we have no right to insult the people for whom the Soviet Union is their home country where they were born. I understand that slang is good for journalism, but slang is bad for the parliamentary rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u71	Ms. Hanna, I'm counting, and I hope that we can unite to actually work in new ways. And I'm asking what I said to address, not to the country again, but to those methods that I hope have gone back in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u72	Please, Ivan Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I, too, have already raised this issue with my colleagues Stephen Bulba and Hanna Herman. I wish we didn't spit in the past and think about it here. they did not express themselves as “an embroidery document and so forth. I only have one request like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u74	Yeah, that sounds like it. Cosub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u75	Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, Zaporozhye Please tell me, how are the committees and factions supposed to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u76	It is included in item 5, namely, the production and dissemination of information on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its activities. We have considered the work of committees as well as the work of factions, as well as the visiting meetings of committees as part of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u77	Please, Kalts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u78	Please tell me how international activities on the arrival of foreign delegations will be covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u79	I think it might also be about the point we were talking about. Let me read again: this is the production and dissemination of information on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its activities. In the same position, there is another paragraph in the fifth paragraph, namely, daily operational information on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the dissemination of information on matters that Parliament is considering. We think that, including the international work of Parliament, this paragraph covers it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u80	Yes, thank you. All questions are exhausted. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? None. Dear colleagues, before the vote, literally a few words. In fact, you and I have now written down in our regulations that, not for each session, we should take appropriate decisions, sorry, not for each plenary session, but for the entire session, that is, for the whole fifth session. Jaroslav Mikhailovich had a good point, but we are likely to limit ourselves here. The reporter said right, let's limit it if we immediately record what we're broadcasting. There will be a need, a need will arise, and the Supreme Council can make the appropriate broadcast decision by a majority vote. Although I realize it's very embarrassing for those who have to provide it, let's try to make this decision in advance so that the radio companies are ready to implement it so that we don't put them in an awkward position and there are no conflict situations. And it's perfectly right for a committee that agrees with the Legal Authority's recommendation that we write in the first paragraph that at the expense of the State budget that is allocated to this case. So, if there is no objection, dear colleagues, I take that as a complement. And the code, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the fifth vocation with the addition that was made in the speech of the committee’s chairman. Bill 1165 registration number. Please vote. [[10:39:57]] For 307 It's been decided. Thank you. It's important to us. I'd like to ask the profile committee to carefully monitor how it's going to be implemented. Let us turn to the question: Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. The Special Committee offers us a 15-minute deadline for a report to the Minister of Finance, a report to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs and the head of the Court of Auditors; five minutes for answers to questions from the Minister of Finance, the head of the committee, and 10 minutes for questions to the head of the Court of Auditors. And within 30 minutes of that, we're going to have a discussion of this issue. Will there be any objection to the Rules of Procedure? If it's not there, then we're going to go ahead with it. The word is given to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please, Victor Mikhailovich. Prepare Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is on the implementation of Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. We've prepared the relevant illustrative materials, you've got the relevant statistics, the Treasury reports. And we're going to give you some illustrative material right now in the course of the report. Since last year, this report has not only been given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We initiated and carried out such a report to the public of Ukraine, obliging us not only to report at the expense of the State Budget but also to use public money as a chief budget manager. We consider this to be an important element of public control over the direction and effectiveness of spending society's money. Last year's budget was probably one of the most difficult budgets in the history of an independent Ukraine. At the beginning of last year, financial imbalances were extremely serious. It is enough to say that the 2005 budget approved in December 2004 did not have sufficient funds to pay pensions. They were short for two months. This is shown by how much, in fact, was spent on the budget to ensure that every Ukrainian pensioner receives a proper pension at the right time. You can see that the budget was set at 6 billion dollars, and it took 16 billion dollars to pay off pensions because last year Ukraine entered a unique world practice when the pension, the minimum pension, turned out to be higher than the minimum wage. The real budget deficit reached a level that threatened serious financial shocks in the country. You see this deficit, 33 billion dollars, or almost 8% of GDP. Such a deficit is not financed by privatization or loan. Such a deficit is covered, unfortunately, by a terrible instrument called the National Bank of Ukraine printing press. That is why the 2005 budget had to be radically redesigned. He seemed to be getting ready again. The most radical budget change took place in March 2005, when critical financial imbalances were eliminated. As a result, the general government budget's revenue plan with inter-budget transfers was increased from 63.1 billion to 83.5 billion dollars, or by 20.4 billion, by 32 percent. This is a very serious, difficult task. And the government has done such a difficult task of raising the revenue of the budget. Under what macroeconomic conditions has the 2005 budget been implemented? The real growth in gross domestic product was lower than budgeted – 2.6% against planned 8.2, but at a much lower rate of economic growth in the General Fund's income growth was 3.4 times higher than in 2004. We got an income increase of 32.6 billion versus 9.5 billion in 2004. Inflation rates are almost correct. The plan was based on consumer prices of 9.8, the actual index of 10.3. As far as producer price dynamics are concerned. The planned rate was 12.3, the actual rate was 9.5%, and compared to 2004, inflation dropped. So the consumer price index went down from 12.3 to 10.3 percent. And the price of producers is almost three times. In 2004, they grew by 24.1 percent. Last year, 9.5 percent. Last year’s budget reached 134.2 billion dollars. That's 102.5 percent of the Ministry of Finance's estimate, or 46.6 percent more in the past 2004. At the same time, the State budget received 105.3 billion dollars or almost 50 percent more. That's 99.3 percent of the plan, including the total fund 101.1. Under plan 83.5 billion dollars, the total fund is 84.4 billion dollars. So it's 900 million more. The government budget deficit was less than planned. At 11.1 billion dollars, or 2.6 percent of GDP, it was 7.9 billion dollars or 1.9 percent of GDP. Including the general fund, a deficit of 8.6 billion dollars was planned. In the general fund, the actual deficit is 8.6 billion dollars, or two percent of GDP. In the revenue structure of the General Fund of the State Budget 57 per cent was provided by the State Tax Administration, 35 per cent by the State Customs Service is the two principal tax administrators. The government tax administration increased its income by 52 percent last year. From 32 billion to 48.5 billion dollars. The State Customs Service increased its income by 73 percent, from 17.2 billion to 29.8 billion dollars. The biggest increase in income was in the value added tax. The amount of income from this tax has doubled from 16.7 billion to 33.8 billion dollars. The doubling of income from this tax is unique in world practice. It was achieved by eliminating many shadow schemes of VAT compensation, combating smuggling, and reducing the customs value of goods. As a result, the share of this tax increased to 40 percent of the budget’s income. I'd like to draw attention to this figure, once again, more than half of the budget's revenue increase last year paid a value added tax. I pay attention to this figure, in connection with the aims of restoring the tax benefits provided by the draft budget resolution for the following year and the risks it poses to the budget and the country. A 45 - percent increase in income tax. From 16 to 23.3 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover 18 percent excise duty, from 6.7 billion to 7.9 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget The increase in VAT revenues was achieved in the implementation of the VAT recovery plan, with a plan of 13.1 billion, in fact, in damages of 13.3 billion. By the end of the year, debt with VAT returns had been cut by almost six times, from 3.4 billion. up to 0.6 billion This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Last year’s budget was essentially the first important step in addressing the problem of poverty. The minimum wage was increased by 40 percent last year, from 237 to 332. There was a growing imbalance when the minimum wage was less than the minimum pension that undermined the formation of the Pension Fund and gave rise to the issue of guaranteed pensions for our citizens for years. This step has significantly improved the financial situation of the Pension Fund, and we see this not only last year but also this year. Last year we subsidized the Pension Fund for 16.3 billion. in the year 7,3. This ensures greater confidence in the future stability of the Pension Fund for pension payments. An important step has been taken in overcoming the pension balance. Sadly, you remember that in early 2005, all pensioners received the same pension. The number of pensioners receiving the same pension has been reduced twice. Last year, the first stage of the introduction of a single tariff network and the expansion of the tariff range was achieved. That is, a differential wage increase has been made to encourage qualified workers. So the average wage went up at a faster rate than the minimum. In education, 63 percent, in medicine, 72 percent, December to December. As a result, the wage gap in both the budget and the economy has been reduced. In education, the ratio increased to 74 percent, and in medicine it increased from 60 percent to 71 percent. A number of important other social programs have been implemented, support for the birth of a child has been increased 12 times, children with disabilities 3.6 times, children with orphans 5.5 times, and the provision of military service has tripled. In accordance with the approved budget, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Treasury have made allotments to the chief executives, with an actual allocation of 93.6 billion under plan 94.9 billion. The economy has developed by virtue of benefits and subsidies of 0.8 billion, owing to the invariable tariffs on utilities. Another 83 million economies received government debt, there were no decisions on part of the contingency fund, which also saved 68 million dollars of budget money. The bulk of the expenditure of the general budget in the section of the functional classification went to two articles: the social protection of 30 per cent and between budget transports of 24 per cent. In the economic classification, 95 percent of the budget is current, 5 percent of the capital. I would like to remind you that, at the same time, this is included and income is basically a savings clearing. The budget was projected for this target of 3 billion. That's right. In fact, citizens have shown a desire to pay off municipal payments of 1.8 billion dollars. The sum is 1.2 billion. That's less money. As already noted, the general fund of the State budget has been reduced by a deficit of 8.6 billion. against 10.2 as planned. All deficits are offset by revenues from the privatization of state property. Loans were made only in the form of public debt repayment. The budget envisioned loans at maturity levels of 13.8 billion. The actual amount of the loan was reduced by 1.1 billion. In addition, in the past year, Minfin first performed operations to replace old expensive debts with cheap debts. We paid off the debts we owed us at 11 percent of our annual loans, which were 5 percent, or 7 percent of our internal market. So we paid off the debt over time by 5.5 billion. the money that saved the debt service costs of one and a half billion dollars. That's right. Among them, in 2005 it was 250 million. That's right. This allowed for a substantial reduction in the cost of public debt service. Last year, the country's debt, state debt and guaranteed, was reduced by 7.3 billion. Money, or 6 percent of GDP. The external debt has been reduced by 5.4 billion, the internal debt by 1.8 billion. This reduced debt service costs to 0.7 percent of GDP, or 3.3 percent of budget expenditure. The low level of budget deficit, the constant reduction in the country's debt, the growing foreign reserves (I guess they doubled last year) allowed Ukraine to place eurobonds for 10 years at the lowest rate in the entire period of independence of interest – 4.95 percent. The remainder of the government budget in the treasury account increased from 2.2 billion to 13.2 billion dollars in a year. Including the global fund from 1.1 billion to 11 billion, the special fund from 1.1 billion to 2.2 billion. Last year’s government budget receivables were almost unchanged and accounted for 7.6 billion dollars. Loans increased by 800 million. So the revenue of the budget is from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u83	Thus, the 2005 budget income allowed the necessary financial resources to carry out all the budget tasks. First of all, to fund all expenditure on pension and salary increases. The budget deficit is kept at an acceptable level, with less planned. The country's debt has been reduced. All the social work of the budget last year has been done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u84	Done?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u86	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Yes. Five minutes, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Valentina Seminyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u88	Valentina Seminouk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u89	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, first of all, I want to make some adjustments and ask you a question. During the 14 years of privatization, the Holding Fund issued a budget of 18 billion. In 2005, the holding fund counted 25.2 billion dollars. At the same time, the State Property Fund received three times less funding for programs, including rents and so forth. Please tell me two questions, like a Democrat. So are you in charge of the dictatorship of the law or not? In accordance with the Fund’s Budget Act, the Fund should be fully funded. You're not doing this for today. You haven't released the fund today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Valentina Petrovna. First of all, I'd like to give the people's deputies and citizens reliable information. Last year, not 24.2 billion came from the privatisation of the “Criminals” but 19. Because 4.2 billion, the Heads of the State Property Fund needed to know, returned to the former owners. That's the first one. It's different. All privatisation in Ukraine has given Ukraine 14.2 billion. Take down the privatisation of the Creebrisstals of 24 billion. Privatization, an honest transparent privatisation of the “Cruvoristali” gave 24.2 billion. Now, let's talk about funding. The Ministry of Finance is fully funded by the State Property Fund. But what does the State Property Fund do? I would like to remind all the national deputies how in due course the tax administration kept 30 percent of the taxes due. The State Property Fund does the same thing. In addition to funding the general fund, give them a percentage of privatisation to finance them. Well, it's the commercialization of the authorities. And the Ministry of Finance doesn't support the idea of judges getting from the number of convicted people, tax collectors from the number of taxes collected, because these are public services that are to be received from the State Budget. And we're funding the State Property Fund, like all ministries and departments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u91	Please, Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u92	The Plotniks, the Party of the Regions. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, how do you assess the quality of financial planning, given that you've been reviewing the budget since you reviewed it? That's the first part of the question. And a second. What factors, though, have proved unpredictable, taking into account what took place in 2005, which has had a bearing on the need to make adjustments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u93	Let's see what adjustments we made for 2.5 billion, and why did we make them? During the implementation of the budget, he was extremely uneasy and did not allow the government or the Ministry of Finance to live in peace. We've been regenerating revenue. About 1.5 to 2 billion dollars we've been regenerating revenue. Moreover, these revenues were then taken into account in the correction of the budget. In addition, there are always some deviations in the budget implementation process, and each year they occur, including this year’s deviations. For example, last year there was a significant cost economy, according to some articles. The need to pay off increased pensions to military pensioners was lower. And at the suggestion of the chief executives, they were redistributed for the benefit of other programs. And last year's budget review was only on the up side.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u94	Please, Julia Kovalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u95	It's a faction of regions. I'd like to give you the floor to Petrosov Valerius Albertovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u96	Please, Petrosov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u97	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, you can see that the Cabinet of Ministers did not deal with the productive forces of the country, and you, mostly through taxes, have taken all of them from the enterprises and have fulfilled the income part of the budget. However, I have a question: your report does not contain a complete analysis and monitoring of the mortification rate, the loss of the country's economy. What's he like? More units or less units? Last time you reported that many laws and regulations had not been implemented, you would like to know how many laws and regulations had not been implemented, which had violated the productive force in the country? And the question is, how much better have we been living as a result of the work on the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. There was no tax hike last year. On the contrary, when we reviewed the March budget last year, we reduced the sole tax on small businesses. You remember the conflict that existed at the beginning of the year. No other bets were raised. Where did we get the income? So let's go back to VAT. From the point of view of the normal economic situation, as an economist, I'm going to say that it's impossible to double the income in a year. Why did this become possible in Ukraine? Because, unfortunately, there was a full scale of money. Note the interesting statistics: Ukraine’s exports to the Baltics fell sharply last year. I'm saying he wasn't there. There was a phenomenon called “airport” – effective VAT compensation schemes. Think of the things that we had going on with insurance payments and the amounts that were taxed. The only thing the government did was to overturn the shadow-redistribution schemes, and that's what added the funds to the budget. We have directed these funds to the interests of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u99	Yes, thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, sit down, please. If we were to talk about the State Budget every year on the "Criminal", we would be able to talk about the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u100	Adam Ivanovich, to income. Privatization has nothing to do with income. And when I talked about income growth, there's no privatization. Privatization is a source of deficit financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u101	That's understandable. But, but. Yes, please, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mikola Janović Azarov. Who saw Azariah? You don't? Then come on, for this is a reading: The Budget Code says that after the Minister’s report, the chairman of the committee should report, and the Rules state that the report should be followed by a report by the head of the Court of Auditors. The budget code has not been implemented, then let's go to the Rules. Please give the floor to the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović. Please, 15 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! In accordance with current Ukrainian legislation, the College of the Court of Auditors reviewed the Government's report on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005 and approved the relevant opinion. I wish to emphasize that this conclusion was adopted on 11 May 2006. It has been sent to you people's deputies, and I hope you have come to know them. This gives me reason to focus only on the main issues of budgetary policy last year. And I will not start with the Pension Fund, it may be important, but not the main problem of our economic situation. I'll start with macroeconomic indicators. The economic growth achieved in 2005 was the lowest in six years. The real gross domestic product growth was 3.2 times lower than projected and 4.7 times lower than 2004. The level of reallocation of GDP through the consolidated budget, taking into account government trust funds, has increased by 6 points to about 44 per cent, the maximum in recent years. External economic activity has shifted from export operations to imports, resulting in a 2.7-fold decrease in the current balance of payments account from 2004. For the first time since 1999, the balance of foreign trade in goods has become negative, amounting to $1.9 billion. The Government's commitment to meeting the pre-election promises of the social dimension in a slowdown in business has led to increased fiscal burdens, redistribution of financial resources for the budget and further declines in economic activity. The real growth in the population's monetary income has risen by 7.3 times the gross domestic product, and wage growth has increased by 5 times the productivity growth rate. These, respectable people's deputies, are signs of a stalemate. Growth without development. If you want, it's a requisition for the real economy. Unfortunately, we've been through this before. As a result, the Government has not generally implemented both the income and expenditure portion of the State Budget Act 2005. The government budget's income is under 2.5 per cent, which is 2.7 billion. The public budget expenditure was 5.4 per cent less than planned, representing 6.4 billion. Now on the income of the general budget. Yes, the total budget income has been overrun by 1.1 per cent of the 900 million bracelets approved. Growth was 32 million grevens compared with 2004. The Government, Minfin, especially Minfin, assures us that such progress has been achieved through a reduction in the shadow sector of the economy. Some describe this indicator as a success, almost a miracle. However, according to an expert assessment of the Court of Auditors, the main income increase in 2005 was achieved through an increase in fiscal burden. First. The increase in excise duty rates and rates increased the income by 1.4 billion dollars. The increase in the return of State-sector enterprises to Gosbudget has increased the income by 3.4 billion. The abolition of tax preferences gave rise to one and a half billion incomes, and if you add 3.7 billion grivens of excessively paid taxes and taxes to these figures, 4.2 billion grivens not reimbursed by the payer for the value added tax, including 600 million overdue. The conclusion of one, more than 80 per cent of the increase in the income of the common fund was derived from administrative factors. Economic growth in income is four times smaller, so it means either not knowing the true state of affairs or doing basic pharisaic work. Low payment discipline had a negative impact on budget implementation. Debt to the budget and public trust funds increased by 6.8 per cent over the past year to over 9 billion. Grieve. In the light of fines and fines, the total tax debt amounted to over 16 billion. Grieve. The main debtors were the fuel and energy complex company, with NAC Naftogaz Ukraine underperforming, which no one checks and I am convinced that no one is in charge, increased by more than 1 billion per year. The figure was 5 billion dollars (U.S.). Grieve. As a result of the tax write-off, the 2005 budget was lost to 6.8 billion people. By way of write-off, that is 2.7 billion dollars. The figure is 1.7 times higher than in 2004. Half or 60 per cent of these write-offs were written off in the first half of 2005. I will not continue this list of elements of the so-called new budget culture declared by Minfin. I will only stress that they are continuing, to some extent, in a hypertrophysic form, in the performance of the 2006 budget. Despite overexpenditures in the total fund, the planned expenditure was not generally met by 1.2 billion. Or 1.3 percent. During the reporting year, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, by amending the budget schedule, has been deterred from allocating funds for individual programmes, resulting in an unjustified burden on the expenditure portion of the budget in the last months of the year. In fact, 28.4 per cent of annual expenditure was incurred in November-December 2005, which prevented the main budget distributors from spending the planned amount. As President of the Court of Auditors, I am not talking about the effectiveness and legality of these funds. The Government has not carried out budget lending effectively. Of the 2,4 billion dollars in the government budget last year, credits of 1.6 billion or only 66 per cent were provided. The main reason is the poor performance of the Ministry of Finance, in particular, upon the return of previously issued loans, which are the main source of their submission. In 2005, only 1.3 billion returned, slightly over 50 per cent of the projected 2.5 billion bracelets. This situation has led to the collapse or underfunding of a number of critical budget programmes, including the creation of a public food reserve, the holding of collateral and intervention contracts by an agrarian fund for the formation of a government order for food products markets. This situation is repeated from year to year. I think that the Government needs to examine the current practice in detail and perhaps refuse or substantially restrict the submission of loans directly from the budget by handing the matter over to State banks. Next question. For the first time in years, the State budget for the special fund, which has been in operation since 2002, has not been implemented, both by income of 7.5 per cent and by expenditure of 13.9 per cent. There's a lot of reasons. We have informed the Government and Minfin in detail and on more than one occasion, and there is no response yet. I will therefore focus a little more on one reason, the situation in which citizens have been deprived of their savings and their role in addressing the emergency and important morbidity of Minfina, who was the chief manager of the budget. Just think, out of the 3.5 billion bracelets in the government budget, 2 billion bracelets did not reach people. This is because the expenditure portion of the budget for those purposes was a protected item. Protected, but not from Minfin. It is our understanding that, due to the dissatisfaction of the official, 2.9 million Ukrainian citizens have not been able to obtain compensation. Moreover, the auditors of the Court of Auditors began to verify the facts. It was found that one of the high-ranking officials of Minfin had tried to mislead the actual state of the funds, giving documents to the Supreme Council and to the Government and making few mistakes, increasing by 263 million. That's what I'm talking about. The Government reported a decrease in government debt in 2005 by 7.3 billion. Grieve. Quantitatively, it's not bad enough. However, an analysis of the qualitative factors that have affected changes in public debt does not give rise to optimism. First, the revaluation of the bracelet reduced the debt by 3.3 billion. The bracelet, which had hit the State's export positions very painfully and had resulted in losses that were more than twice the cost of public debt service savings. Secondly, the early repayment of part of this debt was not through economic growth and, as a result, the creation of a budget surplus, but through new government borrowings and the collection of privatisation revenues. It is highly doubtful that the Government and Minfin decided to attract a commercial external loan of 3.6 billion in October 2005. Grieve. At a time when the State budget was largely implemented and the question of the reprivatization of Krivoroztali was resolved and the money was already in the treasury accounts. This economic misstatement of the decision was confirmed by more than one third of the loan unused last year. Minfin provided information on the loan shown to the Supreme Council in December, when it was too late for Parliament to respond to these operations. Unfortunately, this is not the only case of hand-held management of Mr. Minfin. There is an urgent need for a holistic system of legislative solutions to public debt management, debt policy and public loans. And last but not least, respectable colleagues. The results of the audit of the implementation of the State budget for the first quarter, which is also given to you. Audits for the first half of 2006 show that systemic deficiencies in 2005 continue to recur, sometimes in the worst possible way. In our view, there is a need for fundamental measures aimed at enhancing accountability, particularly for Minfina and strengthening the effectiveness of budgetary policies. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, please, we have 10 minutes to ask. Please, Mikola Onichtuk, behind him is Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u104	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Žebravski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u105	Valentin Kostinović, please tell me what's wrong with the government paying off 1 billion dollars under 11 percent and taking less than 5 percent. What, then, did the government do to the people of Ukraine in this bad and criminal way?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u106	The fact that this had not been envisaged had not been foreseen, particularly by the budget of Ukraine. Second. One. Second. We do not have the right to take two without agreement with the Supreme Council. And the third. Why, when we went through them again and the budget in the Treasury was 14.9 billion dollars in fines. There's a thing called the law. And the State budget is the law and must be strictly implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u107	Yes. That's right. But what I'm about to say is wrong. I'd like to ask, I don't really see Chewchenk Andry. Just received a call from Kharkiv that a report by the head of the Rakunkov Chamber was cut off from direct broadcasting on the radio. I'm asking the profile committee to figure out why this happened. Yes. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u108	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u109	Grigorovich Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u110	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich, indeed, there is nothing more reasoned than the language of the figures. Judging from the language of the figures we have in your report and in the Minister of Finance's report, it becomes clear that fiscal policy was still more successful in 2005. But really, no miracles at the moment in 2005, and that's all there was in 2004. Still, how do you explain in dry figures the phenomenon that, in the so-called growth of GDP to 12 percent in 2004, the increase in income in the budget was only 9.5 billion, and in the growth of the budget, and in 2005 the increase in GDP was over 32 billion? Where did this difference go? Were there shadows or holes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u111	I am very pleased to hear such profound questions as the fact that the goal cannot be achieved at any time by any means. The economy is an economy. And I said, and I want to emphasize this phrase. Today, the budgetary policy that has been implemented, and the entire economic policy, especially in 2005, which was then slightly suspended by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ehanurova, was the elimination of the real sector of the economy. And without the real economy, there can be no additional payments and additional revenues, as is said. It's like they say, an hour's worth. Today, we've eaten, we've apologized for the expression, and then we've got nothing left. Don't let us have the "Criminals" of 25.4 billion griven "Criminals" wherever we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u112	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u113	Dear Valentina Costinovich, I have a question for you in connection with the State Budget grants to the local budgets for the implementation of delegated powers. Have you analyzed the situation? Because in local budgets, the share of wages actually reaches up to 90% in many cases. In fact, with beautiful wage rises, we got a choice when the government did it at the expense of the local budgets, in fact, by reducing the utility and the general existence of local self-government. And very briefly, I would appreciate it if your report were transmitted and printed to reconcile it, in the Voice of Ukraine, because, as has been known, the broadcast at this point has been excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u114	What can I tell you? We are here in detail, in this booklet, I have such an expanded book, we have written in detail the implementation of inter-budget transfers and local budgets. You're absolutely right. Today, local budgets for some people say that communities and cities represent themselves, so budgets that cover wages and public services and no more. There are no issues for development, as is said. And even a city like Donetsk, or Dnepropetrovsk there, is asking for a transfer to make 200 meters or 50 meters or a sewerage or a heat route. I've been mayor of the city of Odessa for 10 years, and if we did that, but that was a long time ago, it would have been death like that. But the bottom line is that today it's such a policy that these amounts of transfers and subsidies are growing every year, growing, growing. First of all, there's still a lot of violations going on. Secondly, the people on the ground are being held hostage to this growth. Most importantly, out of the local budget transfers, local budgets of $23.4 billion were allocated, representing only 91 per cent of the 2005 budget. That's where the problems come from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u115	Hennaday Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u116	Valentin Kostinovich, but I think we're not having a bad economy right now, and that's also the result of the financial policy that the government of Yehanurov is running, and especially Finance Minister Pinzenik. And the question is: Pension fund. The government funded 15 billion dollars to the Pension Fund in 2005. Now in the media, the figure is going somewhere. The situation with the Pension Fund is about minus 20 billion dollars. What do you think is the situation, and what does both the government and the Supreme Council need to do in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u117	I think Victor Mikhailovich described the situation with these graphs, and so. The numbers he said. All I can tell you is how I understand this problem. Today, there is a policy to address the pension scheme under the diasmatic system. We have a budget bill. on pension insurance, all stages of the passage and implementation of all forms of pension insurance are envisaged. It is therefore necessary, not sporadicly, to follow the line adopted by the Supreme Council and approved by the law on pension reform. Then everything will be in place. And this is how we do it: there's some kind of election campaign going on, there's some kind of campaign going on -- we're starting to touch this fund. Had it not been for the management of the fund that heads the fund today, there would have been a great deal of trouble. [[That's what I'm telling you, because we've checked several times.]] Thanks to the current leadership of the Pension Fund, which has been compensated by professionalism for all the “distortions” that have arisen and, as it is said, the ability to deal with the issues that are coming upon it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u118	Olga Gerasimük But I can't see. What, are dead people already passing on the word that is not in this room? Yeah? Jerbrowsky, you'll go far. Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u119	Dear Valentin Konstantinović, the Court of Auditors has provided us with sufficient material, which is very often marked by gross violations, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and by individual ministries and agencies bordering on the crime. But I don't remember any cases in eight years, sitting in this sessional room, being punished and held accountable. Therefore, note, even today, the current leadership. The Minister is very sceptical and, if you like, he is mocking your conclusions and suggestions. What do you think you need to do to make irreversibility a punishment for the atrocities that these belligerent diletts are in power today. And the second question, however, was where the money was spent for "Criminal" and whether the Horn of Curve itself received the share that the Supreme Council had determined from the amount that we had received for the second sale of "Criminals". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u120	Well, let me try to answer your questions in an orderly fashion. Thus, first of all, skeptically, they are not skeptical, thereby violating the law of both the Court of Auditors and the Constitution. According to the law, we reach conclusions, claim to the board and direct ours, not ours, but the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, the Ministry of Finance. On 11 May we considered, sent, sent, sent to the Supreme Council, handed you all this case. According to the law, the law must answer these questions in 15 days. Regrettably, the situation today is that the answers are based on the principle of “where the flood is located”. We are talking about economic policy, that the budget is a concentrated expression of economic policy, and we are told about the Pension Fund. Right? Maybe it's the right thing to do, but it's part of it. We are told of unprecedented growth and wonder. We're saying it's not a miracle, it's a pharisaic thing, and let's say, digital manipulation. Therefore, the laws adopted by the Supreme Council must first and foremost be implemented. This time. Secondly, we sent and sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office, at least this year has opened up enough, has dealt with our documents well enough, somewhere around 25. Therefore, your only right, send it to the Public Prosecutor's Office on behalf of him, there are documents, there are materials, don't send it, it's your right as members of the Supreme Council. And as for the question, "Criminals," I have these numbers. Received from the privatisation of Krivorostali 24.2 billion greven. The former owner was returned to the former owner of 4.3 billion. The budget, last year, was funded by a budget deficit of 7.9 billion last year. The Treasury account remained at 14.9 billion at 1.01.2006. From the sale of Krivoroztali - 12 billion. When there was fighting about where to put the money, there was hardly any, because they were budgeted to offset the budget deficit. This year, I believe that more than 5 billion of these remaining 12 billion have met the budget deficit of the first half. 200 million bracelets were given to the Horn of the Guild, and they handed over 200 million bracelets to the Horn of the Guild. From here, they took 3 billion bracelets for cash, for cash. Yes, I'm sorry, and 3 billion bracelets have been placed in the Stability Fund, and they've set up the Stabilisation Fund. Here's all the money. So it's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u121	Sit down, Valentin Konstantinovich. A replica of what? Then you'll have a seat. I give the floor to the committee on the budget of Azarov Mikola Janović. Please. 15 minutes of reports, 5 minutes of answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u122	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, people's deputies, distinguished voters! In accordance with paragraph of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider the report of the Cabinet of Ministers and take a decision on the record. The Budget Committee, at its meeting on 25 July this year, considered the matter with the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, Customs, Treasury and the Chairman of the Court of Auditors. The consideration of the Government's report on the implementation of the State budget in 2005 is of fundamental importance to us. And it's not because you have to evaluate someone's personal activities, but because someone who doesn't know the past doesn't have a future. And we do not intend to repeat the mistake of the previous two Governments, who rejected all that had been done before them, but merely by adhering to everything positive to themselves, but by cheating negatively on the predecessors. It is very important to give an unbiased assessment of government policy in 2005, since this year, it has changed dramatically and started to build on the principles different from those most economic growth in 2003-2004 during Ukraine's independence. If the new principles were to be successful and further accelerated, this would have to be noted and continued. If they have proved to be destructive to the economy, for the well-being of the people, they must be abandoned immediately. It is clear that the policies of the Government of Timoshenko and then the Government of Ehanurov were followed. First of all, it is the leap forward growth of the social obligations of the State, which are totally underfunded by the resources of the economy. Disengagement of this innovative, investment development of the economy, granting preferences to importers to replace domestic production. Public decision-making in domestic and foreign policy on the basis of the so-called revolutionary feasibility of implementing these principles, manual income management, public execution costs. What has led to such a model of public policy? Not one of the macroeconomic indicators established by the Supreme Council for 2005 has been implemented by the Government. The real growth in gross domestic product for 2005 was only 2.6 per cent at the budgeted calculations of 8.2 per cent. The average annual rate of the bracelet to $5.12 at 5.29. Other options can be discussed. All of this shows that there is no professionalism in macroeconomic forecasting, systematic calculation in the management of economic processes. Thus, the Government has created double scissors. By increasing the flow of funds to the State budget in the context of economic downturn, budget resources were directed primarily towards consumption, encouraging demand for unsustained goods and services and substituted imports. According to the Court of Auditors, the 2005 budget was not implemented by income, not by expenditure. The revenue of the State budget for 2005 was 99.3 from the figure approved by the Supreme Council. The formal slight overrun of the general budget fund of the State budget has a clearly expressed fiscal nature. According to data from the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, 3.7 billion grivens were drawn into the State budget through overpayments of taxes and taxes. According to the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, through increases in fiscal contributions only to enterprises in the State sector of the economy, the general budget of the State budget has increased by 3.4 billion. This is because almost all our public monopolies have become bankrupt, while domestic production has actually been destroyed through customs tariff liberalization. The liberalisation of customs tariffs not only damaged its own producer but also created conditions to reduce future customs revenues to the budget. In the most attractive commodity positions, customs policy has reached the top of the line. For example, some types of light goods in 2004: cotton clothing imported, note, with an average customs value of $28.36 per kilogram. In 2005, $2 and 3 cents. So Customs declared value dropped 14 times. The customs value of textiles, textiles, fell 53 times. Customs costs have dropped 17 times in sports costumes. Which one of you, or our people in the market, has seen such prices? Can such a commodity offer be called good competition? At such unique prices for light goods in 2005, compared to 2004, 73 per cent more were imported and imports increased by 1 billion. up to 2 billion. In addition, the United Nations Office for Human Rights (UNICEF) is responsible for the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (UNICEF). At the same time, the main increase in income was due to the threefold abolition of the zero rate of VAT on oil imports, resulting in a sharp journey of petroleum products, petrol and a virtually complete halt to oil refineries. Unreimbursable value-added tax from the budget increased significantly over the past year. According to the State Tax Administration, the tax debt amounted to 9.4 billion dollars as at 1 January 2006. Grieve. According to the Accounts, the State budget from the repayment of loans was projected at $2.5 billion and had actually received 1.3 billion, or 52.6 per cent of the plan. Again, the practice of cancelling the tax debt of economic operators has been re-emerged. Although article 68 of the State Budget 2005 Act prohibited restructuring, or the cancellation of indemnities from taxes and charges, it was prohibited to grant deferrals on the duration of payment. However, in violation of the legislation, 6.8 billion write-offs were written-off in 2005. The amount of tax debt is almost twice as high as in 2004. In addition, tax liabilities amounting to almost 2 billion have been postponed and postponed last year. Grieve. In 2005, the practice of increasing the value-added tax's budget debt rose by 4.2 billion. A bracelet at the end of the year of which the overdue one amounted to over 0.6 billion. That is to say, there was little outstanding arrears by the beginning of the year. According to the findings, the Ukrainian Court of Auditors had implemented the income part of the State budget under the conditions of continuous revision of the tax rules, which was not in line with existing legislation, including Ukraine's international obligations. In turn, it leads to instability. We all remember how we installed the budget holes just before the end of the budget year. The 2005 income plan was implemented solely through the reselling of Krivorostal shares. Nevertheless, the Government was not prepared to propose a strategic direction for the use of such funds for investment development or for substantial debt repayment to citizens. In the end, it is not known in which black holes in the budget have been dissolved from the privatization of Krivorostali. Among other things, foreign direct investment has been duly recorded by the Government. With such revenue in the budget, you are simply wondering why it was necessary, at the same time, to borrow EUR 600 million commercially. The total government budget for 2005 amounted to 93 billion dollars or 98 per cent of the budget. The part-time and part-time implementation of the planned costs resulted in a deterioration in payment discipline. According to the data, the accounts payable by the budgetary institutions under the general budget of the State increased by 200 million grevens during the reporting period and amounted to 1.2 billion grevens as of 1 January 2006. In 2005 and today, the existing automatic cost implementation practices, i.e. automatic budget dissipation studies, were completely destroyed in 2004. According to the findings of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine during the reporting year, the Ministry of Finance and the State Treasury, through changes in the budget schedule, have held back the allocation of funds for individual programmes, which has resulted in an unjustified burden on the spending of the public budget in recent months and has in fact prevented the main budget managers from spending in planned amounts on the basis of legitimate transparent tendering procedures. A number of socially significant budgetary programmes remained outside the Government's attention. Thus, subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the construction of gas pipelines, drains and gasification of settlements, particularly rural areas, were provided with only 29.5 per cent of the budget. In terms of 420 million grevens, only 124 million bracelets were implemented. The cost of informing general education and vocational training institutions, computerization of general education schools, particularly rural schools, has been reduced by 21 per cent during the budget year by redistributing for other budget programmes. Separate budget programmes have not been fully implemented in connection with the late approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in the use of funds for relevant activities. One of the consequences of ineffective budget management was the Government's decision to authorize, think only of simplifying the tender procedure and making advance payments in December 2005. That is, simply to spend the budget allocations in December. All of these are examples of manual budget management that entails both incompetence and increased corruption risks. The quality of budget planning for the main allocations of the State budget remains at a very low level, as demonstrated by frequent referrals to the High Council Committee on Budgets last year on the harmonization of the redeployment of budgetary appointments. 101 Referral by the Ministry of Finance to 37 main managers of the State budget for 203 budgetary programmes. As a result, the legislative rule on the possibility of redistribution in exceptional cases, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has become almost permanent by budget. The same main distributors of funds applied this procedure several times a year, thus undermining the very idea of optimizing expenditure in the implementation of the State budget. And someone in the Government didn't think of picking up the divisors or the combination of freely altering the budget assignment. Monitoring Government decisions to allocate funds from the State Budget Reserve for 2005 indicates that most of these documents do not meet the requirements of budgetary legislation, i.e. the corresponding costs of the contingency fund were not foreseen and could be fully taken into account in the preparation of the 2006 State budget. What happened in inter-budget relations? During 2005, transfers were made from the State budget to local budgets of 23 billion or 91 per cent of the total, including a total fund of 22 billion, at a special rate of 1.4 billion or 40 per cent. At the same time, subsidies from the local government budget amounted to 8.9 billion, or only 72 per cent of the defined plan. The reason for the failure to fully implement local budgets was the unreasonably broken state budget for 2005, in which significant amounts of the subsidies concerned were specifically provided at the end of the year, as well as the delay in the adoption of individual subsidies and the non-implementation of the income plan of the State budget special fund. The implementation of local budgets in the past year was related to the following problems: an increase in the share of protected local budget lines compared to 2005, which increased by almost 6 per cent. Over a third of the local budget's own income is allocated to the implementation of the expenditure related to the exercise of delegated authority. That is, in practice, local budgets had their investment and incentive roles reduced to zero. During the reporting period, the Government has often taken decisions that did not comply with the State Budget Act 2005 and the Budget Code. The budget managers allowed the purposeless and ineffective use of budgetary resources, as confirmed by the findings of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. In general, the submissions submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the implementation of the State Budget 2005 Act should draw attention to the absence of reports that fully comply with annexes 3, 5, 6, 7 of the Act. Thus, the report submitted by the Government does not contain information on the implementation of inter-budget transfers and other approved inter-budget ratios within the respective budgets. The implementation of the budget programmes of the Chief Public Budget Managers in terms of consumption and development costs, salaries and public services and energy. As well as the actual distribution of costs for centralized activities and programmes among administrative territorial units. In addition, the explanatory note to the annual budget, including information on implementation of local budgets, does not provide a thorough analysis of the explanations. I'd like you to add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u123	Please let me finish. One and a half more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u124	In addition, the Explanatory Note to the Annual Report, including information on the implementation of local budgets, does not provide a thorough analysis of the reasons for the deviation of the reporting indicators from the planned ones. The system does not highlight the state of implementation of the legislative texts. The negative economic trends of the country, which we have fully seen in 2005, continue in 2006 and are primarily the result of the non-professional work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the implementation of the budget in 2005. An analysis of the implementation of the State budget last year shows the absence of forward-looking goals and objectives in successive Governments, a single strategic planning methodology, including macroeconomic forecasting, which did not provide stable budgetary policies for at least the medium-term perspective. With a view to responding accordingly to all deficiencies and violations, the Budget Committee proposes that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers with regard to the implementation of the State Budget 2005 Act be considered unsatisfactory. The report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 is not approved. Recommend to the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine, before 1 November 2006, to study the material on the implementation of the State budget for Ukraine for 2005 submitted by the Court of Auditors. In the event of a confirmation of a violation of the law, it is appropriate to engage State domestic loans at the end of 2005 to resolve the issue of bringing the perpetrators to justice. Report on the outcome of the review to the Supreme Council of Ukraine before 1 January 2007. To recommend to the future coalition office of the Ministers of Ukraine, in the budgetary process, the conclusions and recommendations contained in this decision as a result of the implementation of the State budget for 205 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u125	Please, the question to Nikola Janović, five minutes behind the Rules. Please sign up. Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u126	Dear Nikolai Janović, I support the assessment, the unsatisfactory assessment of the Government of Timoshenko of the implementation of the State budget in 2005, proposed by the Committee. What is your personal assessment of the five-ball system? That's the first one. And the second. It is clear to all that 2005 is a failure for Ukraine in all human activities, especially in the light of the results left by the Government of Januković in 2004. Viktor Mihajlovich Pinzenik was today a soloist, praising the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2005. We've listened to the crows today more than enough. For such work, the ancients were expelled from the country in general. Well, thank God, power is changing, a party of regions with their allies: socialists, communists, will save the country from disaster and restore it to a civilized path of development, the people are confident of that. That's the question. Whether the Government of Yanuković plans to introduce a law on the responsibility of authority at all levels, starting with rural and ending, by the Cabinet of Ministers and the President, in order to ensure that more than once every five years, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u127	Nikolai Janovich, before I answer you, before you answer, I would ask you, let's not raise such political emotions in the budgetary question here. You don't have to do this, please. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u128	Thank you. I also urge that we not politicize this process. I want to say that I have repeatedly spoken publicly outside the walls of the Supreme Council, I will say now. What was the main error of the Government of Timoshenko and, unfortunately, Yuri Ivanovich Ehanurov did not correct that error? In that, in order to win the March 2006 elections, the Government had increased the tax burden on the economy and had drained the production-disposed additional revenues into the budget. But even in this amount, if it were not for the sale of the Crimsons, it would not have met the commitments it had made by reviewing the 2005 budget. What did that lead to? This has disrupted the entire economic strategy of previous years, led to stagnation in the economy, declining production, rising prices, and not budget implementation. The Ministry of Finance, in order to create some kind of visibility of well-being, planned that all major budget expenditures would concentrate at the end of 2005 and, more precisely, for December. All budget managers, apart from salary, received virtually nothing during the year. That is why they have not been able to effectively acquire the resources that have been made available to the Government after the “Criminal War” and have been allocated to the field. This excluded the active role of the State in stimulating investment processes in the country. Of course, in 2006, the more reasonable leadership led by Yuri Ivanovich has reviewed this tactic, which should be a positive step, but has revised not sufficiently, without concentrating the resources needed to carry out this task and, therefore, our task is to take these strategic errors into account in the 2005 budget and 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u129	Caltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u130	Faction of regions, Kaltsev Deputy, Zaporozhye City. Nikolai Janovich! Minfin said that the budget had been fully implemented, with the construction of bridges in Zaporozhye. Construction of bridges is not fully funded in 2005 or 2006. Tell me what problems arise and why Minfin is reporting full implementation and what is really happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u131	At first, there is no full implementation, and the President of the Court of Auditors spoke about it. The Committee on Budgets examined and found that full implementation was not available, and that is why we recognize the Government's work as unsatisfactory. And the most basic answer to your question is that unfortunately, a large one, and one Government and the other Government do not fully take into account the need to allocate substantial resources for the implementation of the infrastructure objectives of development, they simply do not understand that. To put it simply, they don't understand it, they don't understand how to build bridges, roads, you know, they don't understand it, they understand how to eat money, but they don't understand how to make it. Therefore, the only question, of course, is that we will build this bridge in Zaporozhye, we have started to build it, it is the Janukovic Government that has envisaged the construction of the bridge, which has allocated resources for it. It was the Government of Timoshenko who crossed, who put the cross on those plans.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u132	Dry. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u133	Nikolai Janović. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye City, Party of Regions. I want to extend the idea that politics is not appropriate here, but think about it, even in today's report, from a political point of view, that's the phrase. So why is there 13 per cent of GDP growth in the Janukovich Government and less in the budget than in the present. I would like to ask, because when Simonenko's report and statement was made, there was no broadcast, if this broadcast is now included, please explain to our TV and radio audiences, where the hypocrisy of the current power is comparing the unequal figures, absolutely, silently stating that it is these two Governments that the war has been declared to the domestic producer. In particular, Zaporozsky “AUTOZAS”, instead of hundreds of millions in 2004, received tens of millions of dollars in losses in 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u134	I'm only going to give you one example that I gave you in the report, so that it's clear to you and clear to the radio audience. The Government has reported that it has increased, for example, customs revenue by 4 billion. The bracelet, here's a smuggling stop, supposedly widely advertised, worked. In fact, no smuggling of Stop, of course, was realized, it was all a bluff. In fact, the zero value added tax rate for imports of imported petroleum products was simply abolished. So the people said, "Look, we've increased the budget's income by 4 billion, we've increased your wages." But at the same time, they did not say that the producer of petroleum products immediately included this 20 per cent in the price of petroleum products, respectively, increased the cost of gasoline, the producer of bread immediately included these costs in the cost of bread, the producer of meat, the price of meat, we increased, and the same people, the same voters, took the four billion. On the one hand, they'd be given, and on the other hand they'd be taken. So that's what's called bad economic policy. That would be 4 billion. In addition, new capacity-building, new enterprises, new jobs, increased productivity, would have increased by 4 billion. would be provided with additional goods and would not lead to price increases. Of course, they understood that, but they had the first objective, not to increase the economy, not to increase prosperity, but to win the 2006 elections. That is why we consider the Government's report unsatisfactory and do not accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u135	Okay, thanks. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. We've got half an hour to do this, and then we'll call it a break. So that we know who will speak and prepare for an argument. Please, the entry is coming. After the break, Alexandrovsky will be the first to speak, followed by Volga. Please be on break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u136	Announcing for the speech of Alexandrovska, she gives Matthew the word, please. Volga is getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u137	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! After examining the government's report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2005 we once again found that the Communist faction was right when it did not vote in favour of this law, considering that it was not a budget as a tool for regulating the real economy, but a populism-induced pre-election fund of the orange team. There was no incentive for economic development in this budget, which was confirmed in the co-reports by the head of the Court of Auditors, who gave an impressive example, in my opinion. I think, Alexandre Alexandrovich, we should get our attention by now and give an appropriate mandate to the Attorney General to respond to what is happening to the execution and free administration of the state budget of Ukraine. Please also, Alexandre Alexandrovich, give appropriate instructions to the parliamentary committees and relevant services of the Supreme Council's Office on what happened to the broadcast of the plenary session, particularly during the presentation of this rostrum of the head of the Court of Auditors, when they were excluded, both from radio broadcasting and, as reported by voters and broadcasters in the regions of Ukraine. In general, the untransparent economic policy of today’s regime has been bankrupted, the upheaval around the reprivatisation has led to the collapse of the investment climate, resulting in the loss of productive potential without investment, the loss of basic production funds. Competitiveness in the external market of our domestic product is ensured, as we know, only by a low level of wage in the cost of production. I think it's obvious to everyone that the results of the implementation of the state budget last year show, however, that under the terms of social orientation, the budget was artificially overcrowded. It's not done by income or expense. In particular, the full allocation of funding for protected articles is not even ensured. The country was underfunded by an article on the provision of prosthetic and orthopedic products, means of movement and rehabilitation for even disabled persons. I think there's only one conclusion that the budget for economic development has been turned into a tool for achieving political goals. Thus, the government’s report on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u138	Thank you. Instead of Volga, Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich speaks from the faction of socialists. Please. He'll be followed by Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u139	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, today's version of the budget resolution is more acceptable in all directions than in the previous one. It takes into account many of the suggestions made during the previous discussion of the document. In particular, the proposal by the Committee on Social Policy and the work I represent about the impossibility of allowing a reduction in the state budget for the next year of social expenditure. There's another good point that deserves attention: this is paragraph 10 of the proposal, which provides for a priority next year for directing government capital investments to reform housing and utilities, because you all understand very well that the state of this farm is a mine of slow action on which most of our fellow countrymen sit. At the same time, the Committee believes that some points should be taken into account when finalizing this document, since it is not a formal regulatory procedure for the approval of the Budget Resolution, but rather a specific task for the government. First. I didn't see anything about budget allocations to support the village. There is paragraph 11, which states that the allocation of funds from the State Budget to support economic operators. If the village’s support is meant only in this way, that is not the case at all. The parliamentary-government anti-crisis coalition should demonstrate its willingness to move from declaration to concrete steps and at the end of 2006, announced by the village year, to show a real return to rural problems. The other one. There is a need to define more clearly the reserve sources for increasing budget revenues by grouping them. The project mentions only improving the efficiency of public property management and raising the level of payment discipline of taxpayers. That's not enough, because there's not going to be any privatization facilities once or twice. The 9th paragraph says: to implement measures for the rigid economy of budgetary resources for the administrative costs of public authorities. I'd say not only the hard economy, but also the cuts in funds for these purposes and others. In addition, in the tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Basic Directions of Budget Policy, we propose once again to record those that need to be taken into account in connection with the ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the European Social Charter. [[revised]] In particular, on the preparation of a bill on debt relief for employees of bankrupt enterprises with no assets at all, which is over 1 billion dollars. Let us not be ostriches or hide our heads. With regard to speeding up the return to citizens of undervalued savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u140	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. There's a little case going on here. Ivan Mikolaiovich, in his office, was preparing to discuss the budget resolution. This is the next question, and this is what I'm talking about. So I'd like my colleagues not to let him down, give him a word to speak out of another question. But in the end, I remember Mikhailovich, he was an MP in the 1990s, and unfortunately, in the 1990s, he died, the director of the Institute of Gardening in Mlív. He said: “I have been given the word in the rostrum; I can even sing here, although dancing is my right.” So we listened carefully to your suggestions. But I would ask the secretariat to record this statement under, on the next question, in the next question. Thank you. The word is given by Melnik, after him, the One who gives the word to Zebra.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u141	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, I will not say anything new, that we will discuss the 2005 budget report. And I'll show you how it worked on one particular example. And then you'll see that the law that the head of the accounting office was talking about implementing the budget, like the law that the head of the budget committee, Mikola Janović Azarov, was talking about, is far from the law for the government, for the finance ministry, for the state treasury, for the tax service of Ukraine. The law stipulated that funding was to be ordered by the government. The government’s request to prepare the National Academy of State Taxation personnel and the president went to the polls, promised that in no way would it be reduced, but it would be increased. In 2005, the government order was reduced by order of Kyreev Alexander Ivanovich of the National Academy of State Tax Services by 40%, of the 1,065 accepted by 675, by order, I emphasize, by such a document. I mean. That the order, not the order, but the order of the Cabinet of Ministers is to eliminate the National U.S., the National Academy of the National Tax Service of Ukraine on March 1st. But how does it work today? There's a process of elimination, and it's said that a university is being created based on an academy that is being eliminated. The accounts of the Academy are blocked, the money provided for in the National Academy of Taxation Budget Act goes to the University of so-called “Budget Committee” without Parliament’s consent. This is a decision taken at the level of turning the head of the Ukrainian Tax Service to the Head of State. So here's an example, a concrete example of how hypocritically the authorities execute the budget and how they say "returns the breath to where it came out," where they benefit, as they are thus counted with political opponents, is a concrete fact of implementation of the 2005 budget. And as long as the Budget Act is not the law for the Minister of Finance, for the Head of State Treasury, for Kiriev Alexander Ivanovich, the head of the Tax Service, when the government order is voted. adopted by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and adequately funded by the budget law in Parliament, will not be the law for officials, talk about a report, there is no need for budget execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u142	The word is Jebravsky, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u143	Paul Zebrovsky, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, when we analyze the Cabinet report, we can and would have to criticize the government, and there is, in fact, why: this is an increase in administrative intervention in the economy in 2005, and for the imperfect means of regulating certain markets, and for the lack of effective strategic planning. However, that general criticism that came out of the mouth and head of the Budget Committee and the head of the Court of Auditors today can be described as different. As an attempt to discredit the course of President Yushchenk, with whom he went to the 2004 elections, and with whom he worked in the course in 2005-2006. I'd like to emphasize and turn to Mikaly Janovich for the fact that he's offering 4 billion dollars not to take into account the elimination of shadow schemes when removing VAT on oil products on the border. Mikola Janović, the VAT would be taken as well, but at the end of the consumer. And this is exactly what the schemes are, and they're where one-day companies don't pay the value added tax, and the VAT is all the same, it has to pay and the increase in the value of energy carriers and oil products can't have any effect on the price formation of energy carriers. I'd like to refer to the Head of the Accounting Chamber for the fact that replacing 1 billion dollars under 11% by 1 billion dollars under 5% is a good thing for the Ukrainian budget. These are the resource savings that go to people's social needs. The 2005 budget is the first attempt to overcome poverty, 40% raise the minimum wage, the substantial minimum pensions that have preceded, the minimum pensions, the minimum wage, 12 times the increase in the child's birth pay. Is this not a social budget? Is this not an attempt to overcome poverty? Yes, there was some stagnation of the economy, but by 2006, the economy was warming up and starting again. How does the social economy differ from the liberal economy? The social economy tells us that social pay is making the economy warm. Liberal vice versa -- the economy raises social standards. And I'm talking to Communists and socialists. Guys, let's take this seriously: for the social economy or for the liberal economy. As far as “not to approve the report” is concerned. Dear colleagues, the subcommittee first suggested that the 2005 budget be taken into account, but on the eve of the Committee's vote, this was changed to "do not approve the budget". I propose, and the faction “Our Ukraine” proposes to take the 2005 budget into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u144	Thank you. My word is Mikola Ivanovich Sivulski, please. He'll be followed by Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u145	Mikola Sivuliski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear TV setters, reverent radio audiences! Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that we are not in the professional review of the implementation of the 2005 budget, but in the political action that led to the blacking of predecessors, that is, to this day the opposition and the laying of principles that are more frightening, to lay the groundwork for reviewing the direction of budgetary policy that has been set in motion since 2005. That's why it's used to be called black and white and black. Think about it, it turns out there's an increase in wages, pensions, social assistance -- it's bad! That's good! Now let's talk about how the price has been achieved. Let's say, fellow colleagues, that in 2005 it was the first 40 percent wage increase. And ten percent growth, look at the statistics, all of that. Ten percent. Next. The point was that the government of Timoshenko, although he had been working for only seven months, then the government of Yehanurov continued as if they were preparing for the elections. Dear colleagues! We all remember well what we are talking about, and it was about fulfilling the social commitments made during the presidential election campaign. And the government of Yanukovich made a commitment without having any material security, financial security. Timoshenko’s government provided this financial security. This was not achieved at the simple cost of Social Expenditure in the 2005 budget raised to 60 percent, twice as much as it was in 2004. It is said that this was due to the decline in the growth rate of gross domestic product. Dear colleagues, we don't need growth, we need social protection, we need the standard of living of the people. And Timoshenko's government has demonstrated for the first time that there can be a radical increase in the income of the population at a relatively urban rate of growth in gross domestic product. And I very much hope that the next government will not implement this situation and will ensure that the economy continues to have an adequate social orientation. The implementation of the 2005 budget, I propose, is satisfactory because it is. No budget was like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u146	Thank you. Here comes Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich. Please. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u147	Dear friends, honourable citizens of Ukraine, of course, when a budget resolution is being prepared or when a state budget is being considered, approved, approved, it is a huge event in the life of the state and it is a huge work of Parliament, the government. But what we have heard today is the report of Minister Pinzenick and the report, and more specifically, the report by the Head of the Auditorium and the head of the Committee on the budget of Azarov, which seriously makes us think about the evaluation that was given from this rostrum. The lack of professionalism of the government, it's not just the lack of professionalism of the government, it's the lack of professionalism of the President, who runs the executive branch. The government subordinated to the President and the President doesn't run the government. As a result, I came out on behalf of the agrarians, and I'm speaking on behalf of the company. What is 34 million? acres of arable land, 41 million Ilgligence to bet 6.2 billion in the budget? What is in the city of Kiev is the capital, I understand, to bet 12 billion, not 16.7 million. Population, at 28,000. The salt bet 6.2? They're breadwinners. Who will feed 47 million people? Whoever put together the plan and the balance of government, whether it's a state or a branch, is a planning system, whether it's a market system, and the plan is a plan, the balance is a balance. Why did we, even when it was set up last year for 6.2 billion 5 percent of them alone, go to the first quarter, and how do we prepare for the sowing campaign? And every year we tell you that we have some growth -- but we don't have anything. People are starving. I'm just going to say, I worked eight years as head of the Derjagroprom and Minister of Agriculture, and I'm going to say that 26 billion carbs have been invested in the APC, 26 billion is one third of the budget. Today it's money. If the citizen of Kiev receives more than a rural budget of 27 times in any village of the state, what is the budget? And the minister, speaking here today, laughs. The head of the Court of Auditors is speaking, the head of the committee is sitting, he's laughing, he doesn't understand what position he's been given by the Minister of Finance of the State. So, dear friends, I'll finish by saying what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u148	The word is Kaletnik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u149	A executioner, a faction of regions. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! A subcommittee on monitoring the implementation of Ukraine’s budget and the use of budgetary resources has been working on the materials of the Minfin and the Accounting Chamber regarding the 2005 report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2005 budget and has confirmed the conclusion that the budget has not been implemented either by income or by expenditure. This is absolutely justified and objectively stated in the report by Mikola Janović Azarov. Taxes collected in advance cannot be counted in the income part of the tax budget, and they have been overly collected in excess of 3.7 billion. That's right. The economy of Ukraine, on the one hand, has succumbed to the pressure of unprecedented changes to tax legislation prescribed by the government in the 2005 budget, on the other hand, the liberalisation of customs tariffs has flooded the internal market with goods that have successfully produced domestic enterprises, thus dramatically reducing the pace of development of their own economy. This, by the way, was openly acknowledged by President Yushchenko, speaking at the end of last year here in the Supreme Council. In addition to declining growth rates, jobs have been reduced. Instead of promising plus $5 million, you get minus about 300,000. In addition, the liberalisation of customs tariffs has not only damaged the manufacturer’s own business, but has greatly increased corruption and the billions ’ profits of the immediate environment. I want you to borrow what really happened. Clothing and tricotation were imported in 2004 for $7,69 apiece, and in 2005 the customs value was reduced to 7 cents, or 110 times. In total, 800 codes of the walking goods themselves were undervalued, thus not getting billions of dollars into the budget. Even worse, the import of excise goods increased by 1.9 times, and the budget of the excise congregation reduced by 8 percent. Such a customs policy has led Ukraine, as a state, to end a year with a minus trading surplus of 1.9 billion. and already in the middle of 2006 2 billion. This clearly refers to the threat to the nation’s gold reserves. A number of legislative violations were committed by the government in the process of failing to implement the budget. Thus, Kabmin’s decision regarding the allocation of funds from the contingency fund was made in violation of article 24 of the Budget Code. Contrary to article 65 of the State Budget, Kabin has freed individual businesses from paying their profits. This is corruption. As a result of the tax write-off, the individual budget loss structures accounted for 6 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. Costs of local budgets were listed at the end of the year, and at the beginning I follow what is collected as unused, and thus expenditure and income have been incurred. There were opaque, inefficient schemes for budget use. To sum up the above, it can be concluded that doing what is promised to people and "riding on horses" are two big differences. So I'm making a proposal, the work of Kabmin to execute the State Budget 2005 is not satisfactory, the report doesn't approve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u150	Instead of the Prokopowicz word is "Gyornik Evgen Alexiyovich," if I'm not mistaken, yes. He'll be followed by Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u151	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Information from the Cabinet of Ministers and a report from the Head of the Budget Committee are typical examples of how different things can be estimated by the same phenomena -- which can be seen by the optimist looking at the puddle and seeing the pessimist. But objective people have learned in advance that the truth is somewhere in the middle between these two opposite points of view. And what matters to citizens is that as a result of their decisions they have seen and will continue to see goods in their wallets and valuables. Let's compare these numbers. I have before me the 2003 income report signed by Mikola Janović Azarov, the 2003 budget. They are about as much as the 2005 incomes that have been made: the 25 million have been overrun by the general fund, more than 800 million have not been made under the special fund. During the 2003 budget, the government of Janukovitch forced the then Supreme Council to approve the report. What's changed? Whether the seat-point determines whether we have simply or simply ordinary machinations that continue throughout the activities of this Supreme Council. I would also like to remind you that the 2003 budget was implemented in the amount of the budget planned by the then Committee of Budgets, where there was, in fact, professionalism, not as now, when the chief's point of view determines everything, and if you don't share it, see paragraph 1. In 2004, the beginning of the year, the government of Viktor Yanukovic and the Supreme Council reduced the minimum wage from 237 to 205. It is such a concern for the welfare of our inhabitants. I want to remind you that in 2005, the same government that headed Mikola Janović Azarov at the time was approved at 80 billion dollars, which is 25 percent lower than the actual 2006 budget. Well, it looks like it's just like petty revenge now to judge the government's work for this result as unsatisfactory. And so the work continues. Postponing Kalashnikov in journalism is temporary. Rejection of professionalism is temporary. Dear socialists and Communists, you want to increase social protection. The Budget Resolution will now be considered. If the distribution of the internal gross product is reduced to 30 percent, as Azarov suggests, and those budget holes with free economic zones are opened, your social achievements are wept, and you cry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u152	Thank you. It's Kilinkarov, he's behind the Bulba. Not Kilinkarov, but Kravchenko, who gave his word to Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u153	Thank you. Respectable radios, TV sets, respected people's deputies. The Government's budget performance report is almost a political outcome of how the State implemented its policies through the budget. And if you remember how in the euphoria of revolutionaryism the government, which the budget was running, they also had a revolutionary enthusiasm for the budget. There's no way to get another word in here. Why? The fact is that Timoshenko’s appointment at that time and her Cabinet took place without any programme. Those MPs who are here remember how she came out, said she'd be fine, we'd give everyone the cheeses, everything would be great for us, the money of the sea, and the health of victory. That's it. That's it. And it's understandable that the first thing the government started doing was looking for money for elections. You remember the five crises that were born by that Government, and they touched, including the budget. I'll stop at two of them. First, where did the money come from for the elections with Julia Vladimirovna? First, you remember, it's a gas crisis. Nikolai Janović, here in Azarov, spoke only a fraction of the problem was caught at zero rates, the Supreme Council voted, the Supreme Council, on imports at zero import rates. So I want to say, Nikolai Janović, that I have a firm conviction that this gas has not yet been transported. He was in Cremenchug as much as 300,000 tons, and he was sold as this one. That's how they did it. The second, the meat crisis, you know, is that the official who opens the borders gets the same, so-called, bad guy. And there, because today the borders are open, because today the import component above export, although our economy has always been predictable, is export-oriented. To date, this has only happened in that budget, through the Government. And yet the euphoria was about the sale of the Crimsonstalls, 24 billion, they need to be checked in fact where they came from. That's why, Alexander Alexandrovich, we have to deal with this. I fully agree with the Committee's conclusions on the non-acceptance of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u154	Bulba Stepanovich, last performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u155	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. In principle, I agree with those speakers who talk about the nonnecessity of such politics, about the ratings, but objective evaluation, I think I need it, otherwise we can repeat to infinity all the mistakes and shortcomings that were encountered in the implementation of the 2005 budget. I want to give you an example. Consider the shortcomings in the implementation of the 2005 budget for the financing of important social programmes, such as the construction of pipelines and the gasification of urban areas, above all, of rural areas. So in the 420 million dollar plan, only 124.6 million dollars were spent, or 29.2 percent. And this is because very often the money was allocated in the last months, when it was used, it was practically impossible to use it. And by the way, I'm also worried about something else -- the call to shorten these programs on the basis of saying that you don't need to gasify rural settlements, because the gas for the peasants is practically what it is. not available for use. And we're talking about, from these facts, the policy that is basically antisocial, because gas has to be accessible and gasification, that's the good that Western countries have, let's say, for all of us without gas at all, for us, for Ukraine, for particular areas, such as Poltavščina, where gas reserves are large, it shouldn't be a good thing, it should be the standard of everyday life. One more fact. We can say the same thing about information costs, computerization of public education and vocational and technical institutions. And also, first of all, rural. So the percentage of government budget revenues to the local budget is only 21.4%. This practice is totally unacceptable, and so I confirm: obviously, after all, we can't consider it possible, let's say, to take into account, more faithfully, to consider the implementation of the budget to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u156	Thank you. The discussion is over. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik asks for the floor for, uh, closing time. He gets it. After that, Mikola Janović will make a brief statement and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u157	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Let me make separate comments about the speeches and the draft decision. I'm used to talking professionally to any question and when every position is argued professionally. I am sorry that, unfortunately, this spirit did not dominate the discussion of this document and that it was not the spirit of the draft decision. Each expert understands that the quality of the budget, the implementation of the budget, is characterized by 3 main indicators. First, the ability to provide financial resources for all budget expenditure. Let me remind you that we got 900 million dollars more than we planned, 84.4 instead of plan 83.5. Second qualitative performance of the budget. It's a deficit. Instead of 2.6 billion dollars, we made a budget with a 1.9% deficit, it's a great budget deficit. A third country in debt. The country reduces its debt, and last year we reduced the country’s debt by 7.3 billion dollars. Today we appreciate the country's debt, because this year we are doing this, 15% of GDP. This is one of the lowest debt ratios in the world. With regard to certain provisions of the draft decision. And in the regulation, and here, in the hall, it sounded like a lack of interest in making a loan of 600 million euros made by the Ministry of Finance. I'll round some numbers and remind you. Incomes from the 84 billion budget, expenditure from the 94 billion budget. In other words, with 94 billion tax revenues, we ensure that the costs are met by 84, 10 deficits. The law defined the source of the deficit -- privatization -- but the law was the norm, in the case of non-refinition, we have the right to borrow. In the summer of last year, you remember the votes that were in the hall. Prohibition of the privatization of “Civoristals”. The fate of the Privatisation of the “Cruvoristali” has not been defined and I, as Minister of Finance, have made a decision, I have no right to risk failure to implement the budget, I have made a decision to make the loan. I'll remind you that the loan isn't done in one day, but when we got the loan, 600 million dollars, and when the privatisation was done, we returned the funds and sent them over to pay off other debts for a period of time. So we got a 4.95 percent loan, and we paid off the remaining 11 percent debt. And I have a professional pride in the operations of the Ministry of Finance, which for the first time paid off old, expensive debts at the expense of much cheaper ones. And I'll remind you that the Ministry of Finance has saved the country a billion and a half dollars in this operation. Including 260 million dollars last year. The other one. Regarding the income of the special fund. Some articles are so specific that they need clarification because they are neither income nor expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u158	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u159	It's basically an account transaction. For example, the repayment of citizens’ debt on deposits against their municipal payments. We pay the man a thousand dollars, she pays the debts for the utilities, and the gasmen pay the mortgage. Thousands of dollars were sent out of the budget, thousands returned. So this operation doesn't cost the budget at all. Let me remind you that the law allowed this clearance to be carried out for three billion dollars. The citizens took advantage of this right, took a $1.8 billion check, for it is their right, not their duty. If the citizens took four billion dollars, we made four billion payments, because I'll remind them that it's not worth anything to us. Third. The projects say that it's kind of a misdirection of the budget to increase the statutory funds of state banks. First of all, this is the direct norm of the 2005 budget. It's different. Explain to me how an economist, and what other source in the state other than the budget to fill the statutory funds of state-owned enterprises? Third. How this observation relates to the draft budget resolution you are going to vote on. Where the direct commission of the government is, in the 2007 budget, to anticipate an increase in statutory funds of state banks. Please tell me, what document is the truth, whether in this document or in the next document that you will consider? Four. The decision makers should know that the debt owed to VAT and the tax malpractice referred to in the same sentence on page two, as the same, are completely different things. For me, it's wild to hear that raising wages and pensions is about eating up the budget. Don't citizens, doctors, teachers, pensioners spend money in the Ukrainian economy? I probably won't have any more comments, because the question of voting on this project is not determined economically and perhaps not politically. It's a matter of morals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u160	Thank you. Mikola Janović Azarov has the floor. Please. For the final word from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u161	I would like, first of all, to thank all the people's deputies for their statements, which have shown that they are not indifferent, and that their proposals are of interest, which will serve as the basis for the further work of the budget committee, including. Second, the 2003 budget was a budget where, for the first time, all public budget expenditures were financed, not by the calls of the Prime Minister, the President, the Minister of Finance, but in accordance with the budget census. No one stood in the host minister of finance or raised the money provided for by the State budget. This was the first time that this, absolutely, normal civilized principle was realized in 2003. And in 2005, it was broken, they switched to manual budget management and manual budget management so far. That is why the budget for 2003 for the first time, in 15 years of Ukrainian independence, was reviewed and approved by the Supreme Council that it had not been before or since. Finally, why was the evaluation made by the budget committee in the draft regulation so important? Yes, because we must make it clear that the Ministry of Finance and the Government must first stand for a balanced budget, a budget that does not offer populist promises, but ensures sustained economic growth and, on the basis of sustained economic growth, will ensure a sustained growth in the well-being of our citizens. This is what we need to assess as negative and put an end to it. I therefore call on you to support the draft regulation prepared by the budgetary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u162	Thank you, you. The discussion is over. In closing, the minister of finance and the head of the Committee of Budgets spoke. In today’s discussion, indeed, there have been more political evaluations than would have been appropriate in considering such a professional issue. I don't think it's weird because that's the way it's always done in the transmission of the estaphet from one Cabinet of Ministers to the other Cabinet of Ministers. So let's give, let's forgive each other, because of course, that's what happens during this period. And this is very figuratively what Eugene Gorenik said about pessimist and optimist looking at the puddle differently. But the whole thing is that the puddle remains a puddle at the same time. So let's be able to, by implementing this determination, put the emphasis, the points above the "and" and have an answer to what we have, in fact. This is not so much the case with the government that is working today as it is with those who will work. Because all of these measures, which are provided for in the draft decrees, will relate to the functioning of the new Cabinet of Ministers. It's a very principled thing. I think in this respect a slightly stricter estimate than before will be useful for the activities of the authorities at large. But there were still two grades. Some suggest not to take the report, not to approve, but, as the project says, to take note. I'll put both proposals on the vote. In the meantime, I would like to vote on the basis of this project. For the draft decrees on the basis. The draft decision adopted by the Committee shall be put to the vote. [[13:14:52]] For - 244. As a basis, it's been accepted. Now, Adam Ivanovich, point out that the committee's first choice is to vote, or the amendment to the ruling. The amendment shall be voted on. An amendment was made by the miners and others regarding the taking of the report. Who is responsible for this amendment, please vote. [[13:15:30.]] For 70. This proposal does not pass. Then there's the committee's choice, and I'm putting the whole project as a document. Please. [[13:15:52]] For -241. It's been decided. Thank you. The draft Regulation on the main directions of budgetary policy for 2007 is under consideration. [[completed]] Mikola Janović Azarov has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u163	Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable President, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine. Without the Government's report on the implementation of the 2005 State budget, we have in fact given a negative assessment not only of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole but also of the budgetary policy that was established in 2005 and continues in 2006. We must say directly and frankly that this is a failed policy that will lead the country to disaster. In the draft resolution on the budget resolution considered by the Supreme Council on first reading, we proposed approaches aimed at restoring the investment, innovative model of economic development, reducing the fiscal burden on business, protecting the domestic producer, increasing social guarantees and living standards of people based on economic growth. That is, we have proposed putting an end to the country's import dependence, bringing back to life a meaningful policy of strategic national interests, a policy of economic breakthrough. It was worth noting that the last two years of fiscal policy as lobbyists of importers were deplorable and that lobbyists of the Ukrainian import dependence had raised a wave of disinformation from society. Some experts protecting the green market for imports have raised concerns about the alleged threat to fair competition by free economic zones, the alleged return of corruption schemes and so on. They started talking about, like, 12.5 billion bracelets per. I must state with absolute responsibility that this is a frank lie. Once again, it is not an automatic restoration of benefits for all users of free economic zones. It is that the Government must critically analyse the situation and support only effective free economic zones. We must restore economic growth through the mechanisms of free economic zones, technology parks, priority areas for such investment projects and programmes. They could give us an economic breakthrough, we don't invent a bicycle. Indeed, the Korean economic miracle and the Hong Kong phenomenon, Shanghai, China as a whole, have provided mechanisms for free economic zones with free movement of capital and state-of-the-art technologies. I would like to say that those who know the economy only by textbooks and who refer to the experience of the developed countries of the European Union, that we must first get to that experience. We have to overcome the enormous difference in development and then just bet as a model of that country. Let's see how Asian countries have developed, let's see how China has developed, and let's at least make the right and literate conclusions for our country, rather than overstep textbooks and run, serving the interests of specific firms involved in lobbying importers. It is worth noting again that it was the Government of Timoshenko and Ehanurov that created an unimaginably concessional environment for importers and thereby undermined the country's export potential, threw out of the competitive struggle of domestic producers. I've already talked about lowering the average customs value to some groups of goods. Objective experts concerned with fair competition and real pretenses of the economy could not help but notice that fiscal incursions on business, on the economy of the Governments of Timoshenko and Ehanurov led to an off-shore operation increase of 1.6 times in 2005 and 2.4 times in 2006. That's what you gentlemen were supposed to do from the government. Objective experts are concerned about the fight against corruption, and they cannot help but be alarmed that in 2005, the reasons for the write-off of 6 and 671 million, i.e. 671 million dollars in tax debts, are unknown. 70 per cent of government decisions on the use of the Special Fund had been taken in violation of budgetary legislation. At the same time, 2.3 funds were funded in November-December, when it was not possible to organize good-faith tender procedures. And they tell us how to finance the budget transparently. They tell us about the fight against corruption. Let's get this straight, gentlemen! Objective experts know that it is difficult to imagine a scheme that poses major corruption risks and a great deal of non-competitiveness. We are therefore tasked with restoring realistic budget planning and automatic budget execution on the basis of the budget schedule. And so on the bill you proposed to your attention. On 24 July, the Supreme Council adopted the draft decision as the basis of the budget committee. And requested the Committee to finalize it on the basis of the proposals made in the Chamber. The Committee on Budgetary Questions, at its meeting on 25 July this year, considered all proposals in detail and supported many of them. The proposals of the Finance, Banking Committee to increase the capitalization of public banks have been taken into account, which was outraged by the Acting Minister of Finance. Proposals by the Committee on Housing and Communimunal Affairs concerning the definition of budgetary funding priorities, in particular annex 1 to the draft regulation, were supplemented by paragraph 21 concerning the retention of the status of budgetary institutions for higher education institutions on the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies Matveenkov, Nikolaenko and Samojlik. Taking into account the proposals made by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the document highlights the prevention of social cost reductions next year. The list of protected articles on the proposal of the People's Deputy Chubarov is supplemented by an article on the costs of resettlement and the installation of deported Crimean Tatars. The proposal of the Danilin People's Deputy to address the need to develop a system of health care for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster has been taken into account. Revitalization of rehabilitation of contaminated territories. The members of the Committee on Budget Affairs drew attention to the desirability of providing for a list of the main budget managers for the following year, mainly as set out in the 2006 budget. The Committee's most controversial issue was the restoration of special economic zones, priority development territories, a special innovation regime, and technology parks. The budget insists that the Budget Committee insists on this position, as special tax regimes are proposed to be restored only for investment projects whose reality and effectiveness are confirmed. This takes into account the offer of a Communist Party faction not to restore the benefits for investment projects whose implementation involves the import of goods of the 1.24th group, according to the relevant list, of the classification mark. Well, I'll explain that this is mainly about the food group. It should be noted once again that all expenditure proposals and specific budget programmes should be addressed directly in the context of the Government's submission of the draft State Budget Act 2007. I will stress that, with the adoption of the budget resolution, the 2007 budget process is only starting, and in the preparation of the discussions and adoption of the State budget and budget programmes, the people's deputies have sufficient capacity to make and make constructive proposals. I would like to draw your attention, distinguished people's deputies, that we are now taking a decision not to endorse the Budget Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we are taking a decision on the approval of the proposals and mandates of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the 2007 budget. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a revised draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the main lines of budgetary policy for 2007 as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u164	Five minutes to ask. But I'm pointing out to colleagues that this is a second-reading document, that there will be no discussion here. So let's give five minutes of reporters and co-reporters, and we'll make decisions. Please sign up for the question. Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u165	Dear Nikolai Janovich! We have just finished the discussion on the implementation of the budget for 2005, and the Government of Timoshenko has actually received a pair from Parliament. This is true because it is this Government that has disrupted the financing of public programmes. Let's just think of some names: school bus, computerization of schools, especially in rural areas, gasification of villages, acquisition of cardiostimulators, anti-tuberculosis programmes, return of contributions to the population, no re-establishment of a tariff network of wages in the budgetary sectors, and so on and forever. Counterfeiting the subsistence minimum. No better situation for 2006. Practically, complete failure, including the destruction of the financial system and the temporary disability insurance fund. Question: Action is planned through the 2007 budget resolution and budgeting, addressing these very important issues for the country, as was done in 2003-2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u166	Thank you. The budget resolution is a guide for the Government to design, budget. All those areas that you have listed have been discussed in your question are listed in the 2007 budget priorities list.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u167	Garbage. After him, Sivuliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u168	I'd like to give the word to Krugl. Circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u169	Where's Kruglov?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u170	Nikolai Janović, one question. The main focus is on the capitalization of public banks. Does this provide for the possibility of crediting consumers abroad to our domestic enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u171	Let us not elaborate on this subject, since we have recorded this position from your Committee's proposals. The Ministry of Finance now has, well, I mean the new composition of the Ministry of Finance to consider, above all, the financial situation of our two State banks and then, after a thorough review of the financial situation, make a concrete decision. I'm not ready to answer your question in detail right now. As a budgetary policy guide, the budget committee considered, supported your proposal, we included it in the budget resolution, but now I do not specifically wish to dwell on the details of the issue, which is not the subject of the budget resolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u172	Thank you. Sivulian. Is he gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u173	Dear Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u174	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u175	I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u176	Oh, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u177	Dear Mikola Janović, I realized that a decline in the standard of living of the people is planned for 2007 because when the minimum wage increases by 6.7 percent, 10.5 will be higher prices. I realized that the budget was going to be smaller because it's going down by 12.5 billion on your offer. I also realized that there would be a re-establishment of shadow schemes for VAT laundering and foreclosure from the budget. Just say one thing, one question. The Donetsk Free Economic Zones of the Donetsk Region fall under the definition of "effective" which will be restored next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u178	Nikolai Ivanovich, because you have been an experienced financier in your time and you would have to understand and know, and I am sure that you understand and know that what we stated in the budget resolution as a priority of our financial policy does not mean a reduction in the tax burden on the public economy at all. It is a fool's business to tax the public and redistribute the additional revenues of the budget through taxes. Such a fool will be able to try to cut taxes, develop the economy and increase the social standard of life on this basis, which requires mentality, specialization, professionalism. Here we are becoming and returning our economic course to the right path. I'm sure we'll come back. It's only a matter of days.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u179	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u180	That's why, I'm Alexander Alexandrovich now, I want to answer, because I've known Nikolai Ivanovich for many years, and I understand that he's asking these questions for propaganda purposes. With regard to free economic zones for Donetsk. If the Government's analysis shows the economic efficiency and real investment that has been invested in the development of high technologies, why not implement such an investment project in Donetsk. We will also certainly approach that Donetsk, that of Lviv, that of Dnepropetrovsk, Ivano-Frankovsky, does not matter at all to us. The high technological readiness of the investment project should be at the outset. Therefore, no resumption of shadow schemes is and cannot be, because the renewal of shadow schemes is precisely a reduction in social protection for the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u181	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u182	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Nikolai Janović, we have made two fundamental comments from the faction that we would ask you to agree and take account of today. In paragraph 5, in order to legitimize your statement on free economic zones and really cover up the “hole”, please agree with us and the word “renewal” may be replaced by the phrase “to apply the practice of creation”. To walk away from nothing, from a clean slate, and then we'll have a clear guarantee that we don't open up, just to say, the curtain we're talking about. That's the first one. And secondly, we are a socialist position, that is, socially oriented, we cannot agree to leave 30 per cent in redistribution. So let's think about it and agree, "at the level of the current year." I mean, at least let's not make this better. If the proposals you are talking about improve the social conditions of the people, we will all be happy. But we cannot accept knowingly establishing figures that could theoretically worsen the standard of living of the population. That's why there's a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u183	With your first proposal, in principle, you can agree and editorially replace the phrase “renewal, apply the practice of creation”. Since the decisions of the Government of Timoshenko had in fact been closed, in principle such an amendment could be accepted, the practice of creating where there was high efficiency, etc., could be further developed. Now, with regard to the figure of 30 per cent. Dear people's deputies, Sergey Matvienkov himself, it is not beneficial for us to record this figure. Because it is our Government that will have to implement this heavy figure, on the one hand, that this figure says that we must reduce the fiscal pressure on business, and on the other hand we must not only preserve but significantly increase the share of social spending. I have already explained on more than one occasion that this is a difficult task, and we would have to do it ourselves to make our lives easier, to throw it out of the budget resolution. Do you understand? But we're putting up such a high table and talking about what we're going to do. First of all, through economic growth, i.e. through GDP growth and through reductions in non-productive, administrative, mainly budget expenditure, management and others. That is, we will be able to keep the share of the gross national product allocated through the budget at 30 per cent. Why can't we keep the current one? Perhaps the government will feel wet, a new government. Because the current ratio has increased Timoshenko, Ehanurov, by almost 6 per cent of the economic burden, by almost 6 per cent, allows us, frankly, to live safely, to the Government. And we're putting ourselves in a very difficult position. So you're going to decide to delete that figure, and I'm going to say thank you, but I wouldn't want to do that. We must put very serious, major tasks before the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u184	Mikola Janović, in the words of Gornik, Nikolayenka, Bulby on this subject said not once that it is necessary, the social parameters it is, the percentage of the redistribution. If you write not “more” but “less”. Let's write it this way, and this is going to be my, the correct entry or at least write about 30 and that already. Because you know, no more, it could be 20 and 25 and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u185	The share of expenditure redeployed through the budget, the share of gross domestic products includes not only social costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u186	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u187	There, for example, the cost of retaining the prosecutorial authorities, such as the judge, the state administration, the Ministry of Defence, and then it went away. It is therefore not a reduction in social costs, but an improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u188	Let's write "no less" after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u189	Not “not less” but “nearly thirty”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u190	All right, take your seats. Victor Mikhailovich has the floor, please. Victor Mikhailovich, it's just out of respect for the government and for you, because you're no longer in the discussion. But I know what you wanted to say, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u191	Thank you so much for your special attention. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. To be honest, I don't understand what the discussion is about, because I don't see how you can reduce the distribution of GDP to thirty percent without reducing taxes. Obviously, it will not help some to learn. Because taxes need to be reduced, and if you write "stability of taxes", there is no reduction. So we had to go back to the things the government was talking about when we talked about lowering the payroll fund and lowering the currency-sales union. But I'm sure I'll save time and I won't talk about the arguments that I've already used, because obviously there's no point in that. Regarding the proposals and assignments prepared by the budget committee for the budget resolution project. This is about the very serious risks for many social programmes, for the financial stability of the country, which are set out in the proposals for the inclusion in the budget of unsecured income and tax benefits, and for the present, the resurgence of mass shadow schemes that existed in the country before 2005. I would ask all in attendance to remember the figures and our fellow countrymen that I will remind you of. I told you, the scales of those shadow schemes are shown in the 2004-2005 figures. The 2004 budget growth was 3.4 times higher than in 2004. Ask you a simple question: Where did the income in 2004 come from? In shadow export schemes, we are smuggled in goods and so forth. We gave these funds to Ukrainian citizens through salaries to doctors, teachers, scientists, pensioners, and children. Now they want to take that money. Sadly, our reaction to our warnings has proved to be of a kind. Instead of removing the relevant standards from the draft regulations, they were “accurated”. And now it is not just about restoring the tax benefits that have been in place in Ukraine before, but about providing new tax benefits. And the price of the new solution will be no more than 12.5 billion, but more. Obviously, someone needs to chase down what has been lost in the last two years when many of our shadow schemes have been overshadowed. Perhaps now the logic of the emergence of the figure of the supposed budget hole that was heard from this rostrum becomes more clear. This is very similar to the plan of individual politicians by restoring tax benefits to create this hole. Before that, the public thought that she was there. And the draft budget resolution presented by the Committee on Budgets is the first step in implementing this plan. With him, you'll be successful at that moment, the hole in the budget will be. You're going the right way, comrades. As for the current budgetary situation, I would like to remind all other politicians that, in the first half of 2006, the general budget of the State budget was overrun by 927 million dollars, the 2.2 billion pension fund, and local budgets exceeded the projected income of 1 billion dollars. This means that in the first half of the year, all expenditure on pensions, wages and other social benefits and production programs is fully provided with financial resources. I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies not to vote in favour of the draft proposals and commission for the budget resolution prepared for the second reading. I regret the citizens and the country in which such decisions will be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u192	Thank you. We voted on the basis of this document. Now it must be voted on as a whole. There was a discussion about only one amendment. Instead of the word “no more” write “no less”. No, on the contrary, there was “no more” to write either “no less” or “no closer”. Let me put the word “no less” to the vote first. Who's in favour, please vote. “At least 30 per cent”. The system's not working. Please set it up again. The vote is coming, please. The proposal “at least” Calm down, calm down. We'll just be a minute. It's gonna be okay. Again, I address not only the radios, but also the deputies of all. I understand that this is a controversial issue that is causing discussion, because we are at a transitional stage. So some sharp statements, well, have to be made with some correction coefficients. First. That's different. This is a technical task for the Cabinet of Ministers. Here comes the roll call, please. It is proposed in paragraph 6 of the document instead of the word “no more”, to write “no less”. [[13:44:34]] For – 85 Faction, please. Region Party – 3, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 28, SPU – 33, communists – 21. It was suggested that the committee “close” write “about 30”. Please, with this amendment, vote the entire document as a ruling of the Supreme Council. [[13:45:14]] To – 236 For those who are interested, what is “nearly”? That's about 30. It's not more than, at least, about 30. It could be 31, 32, it could be 29, yeah. This way. If you need more precision, take it. I'm telling you, Odysnik says there's no such word in the dictionary. Take Greenchenko’s dictionary and look closely at how it is written. Please don't discuss linguistic issues with me. “White” is a “white pillar” that occurs, “white chair” and “close” is a “close position”, yes. Please, don't worry. To be so principled in other cases. The draft Law “On Amendments to Ukraine’s Law on Local Self-Government” is under consideration. The word is given by the Deputy Justice Minister of Gorbunova Lydia Mikolayevna. Oh, so we voted with the amendment. I said it. Before the vote. I said one more time that the resolution is voting in general with this amendment. All of it. Lydia Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u193	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the District and District Council may express mistrust to the head of the appropriate local government, on the basis of which the President of Ukraine makes a decision and gives a reasonable answer. If two thirds of the deputies from the respective council have been caught by mistrusting the heads of the district or district government, the President of Ukraine decides to resign the city’s head. the local government administration. Similar standards are also contained in the law on local self - government and on local government administrations. However, the current legislation does not define either the procedure for expressing mistrust on the part of the head of the local government or the circumstances that may give rise to mistrust. Inadequate regulation at the legislative level of mistrusting the heads of the local public administration by the district councils may lead to abuse by the councils concerned and then destabilize the political situation and increase social tensions in society. [[area]] The purpose of the adoption of this draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government is to regulate, in accordance with article 118 of Part 9 and Article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, a statement of mistrust by the district council of the respective local government administration. The draft law provides for amendments to article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the addition of the Ukrainian Law to the new article 72. In line with these changes, a comprehensive list of reasons for the decision of the District District Council to express distrust of the head of the relevant State administration is proposed to address, inter alia, the failure of the local public administration to implement socio-economic and cultural development programmes, environmental protection programmes for the availability of funds needed for their financing, the failure of the district, district government administration of the relevant district, district budget, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the failure of the local public administration to implement powers delegated to it by the District, district council and the failure to implement the decisions of the relevant council on such matters. The draft law also regulates the procedure for bringing to the district district council questions about expressing mistrust with the head of the local government, and also identifies entities authorized to initiate the procedure for expressing mistrust. With a view to avoiding abuse by the district council in its decision to express mistrust on the part of the respective local public administration and to avoid making unreasonable decisions, the draft law proposes to set minimum guarantees to be given to the head of the local public administration in connection with a violation of the question of mistrust. Yes, the draft law lays down a duty for the council’s head and, in the absence of a deputy head of the board, immediately inform the head of the relevant local public administration of the introduction of a proposal for mistrust. In addition, the draft law provides that the issue of expressing mistrust on the part of the head of the local public administration is dealt with at a plenary meeting of the Council only on the basis of the findings of the standing boards of the Council on the grounds for expressing such mistrust. The draft law also states that the issue of mistrust of the head of the local public administration cannot be considered for more than one year during the next session of the district council, within 6 months of the start of the work of the newly elected council or the appointment of the head of the relevant local public administration, and six months before the end of the term of office of the council. Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and Ukraine will help to improve the interaction of local government administrations with local self-government authorities, the stability of socio-economic and political situations in the regions, create conditions for effective, consistent work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u194	Is there a question for the reporter? The question is of principle, especially the evil of the day, of today’s evil of the day, and I would like to draw attention to it. Sign up for questions. And I'd like to see you while the MPs sign up. Lydia Mikolayevna, and this is not the reason. There is a level leader, and he treats people in hammocks, disrespects them, and so on. There's nothing written about it. Because not to implement the socio-economic development plan can be done for objective reasons, but what about here? The MPs are more visible on the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u195	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. On our basis, we have come out of the fact that article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that local government administrations are accountable, accountable to the councils only for part of the powers delegated by the respective district and district councils. On the other hand, they are accountable, under the control of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the higher-ranking local government administrations. Therefore, we have failed to comply with these constitutional standards, and we believe that there can only be grounds under which the Boards are accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u196	Please, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u197	I give you the word "Knyazevitch."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u198	Ruslan Petrovich, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u199	Knazević, “Our Ukraine”. Thank you so much! Lydia Mikolayevna, please tell me, in principle, I will express our position "Our Ukraine" and we will support this bill, but at the same time I have some reference to the seventh part of this article, which says that according to the Constitution, the President takes a decision on the basis of a decision of the Council, which is sent directly to him under the Law. Including this decision is duplicating for the Cabinet of Ministers, but the last part of this article goes on to say that he himself cannot make this decision, only he can do so if the Cabinet of Ministers is properly filed. As far as I am concerned, this position is in direct conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Because it can do according to the Constitution according to the rules of direct action and without application. And the submission is an appropriate meeting, a proper decision, etc., it's an unnecessary chain, I think, in this chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u200	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the President of Ukraine can make this decision without the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this case, it was suggested that such a procedure should be established that, since the head of the government administration, also under the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is solely for these reasons. But here it can be agreed that it may even be unnecessary, that this part can be excluded, and that it cannot be submitted to this bill for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u201	Lechenko, please. Then Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u202	I ask you to pass the word to Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u203	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u204	I completely agree. The point is, as far as we assign the Cabinet of Ministers to him, we also assign these powers to him. And given that, in principle, the position of the President and the position of the Cabinet of Ministers may somehow conflict with one another in the future, it is worth relying on the standard of the Constitution as the norm of direct action. At the same time, I have one more question, please tell me, are you familiar with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration? How do you feel about the comments they have made? I'm pointing out to you that there are a few moments there, they recognize as being in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. And at the same time, I have another point of view, maybe you're dividing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u205	Yes, thank you. Yes, of course we're familiar with the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, in my personal opinion, they're not entirely justified. We can only agree with the last remark on the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that's what I said. As for other comments, the first remark, for example, pointed out that there was a need not to limit the grounds for submission. I mean, the grounds for local counseling. But this would be contrary indeed if we did not limit the Constitution, just in the fifth part, to the Constitution of Ukraine. Because it clearly states that government administrations, heads of state administrations, are accountable only for matters delegated to them by local councils. In this case, therefore, we cannot accept the conclusion. As to whether excessive detail is introduced, it can also be said that article 146 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that all matters of the organization of local self-government are governed by law and the Law on Local Self-Government, so if we make changes to this law, it will not conflict with the Constitution, on the contrary, it will help to organize work for local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u206	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u207	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! I'm going to the reporter with two questions. First, please tell us, do you know how many heads of district government and district administrations today have expressed their mistrust, and they continue to perform their duties, that is, to remain in office? That's the first one. And secondly, don't you think that the council does have a right in the event that, without agreeing with it, without considering its point of view, the head or the other person who doesn't meet from the very beginning, even the moral requirements of this position, should not it be considered from the very beginning so that it doesn't have the option. And you put in this bill a ban and an inability to express your opinion after your appointment without consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u208	Thank you for asking. With regard to statistics, I don't know how many such submissions have been made to the President of Ukraine, but with regard to the second question, I can say that, indeed, when the head of the government is appointed, it is necessary to take into account the opinion of the head of the local council or of the local council at all. But this question can be solved, even if changes are made to this one, this draft law. Because one reason is that he does not or does not at all fulfill the obligations entrusted to him by the delegated authority entrusted to him by the local council. Regarding political preferences, I do not think that this issue can be a subject of law, since it needs to be clearly defined by the powers conferred on each head of the local government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u209	Thank you, have a seat, please. I would ask the deputies to approach this Law very carefully, because especially now that the councils are formed on a party basis, it is very important what relationship is built between the director of the administration and the council. And not by chance in the draft agreement, more faithfully in the agreement signed with Viktor Andrievich, I mean, the coalition of democratic forces, it was about the appointment of executive heads of administrations in consultation, after consultation with the relevant councils. And here the reverse action document is suggested in some way. This should be taken into account, but also consider the need to democratize relations at the local level between the board and the administration. Sergey Kuzmenko of the State Building Subcommittee is speaking, please. We continue for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, distinguished Alexandre Alexandrovich. The committee considered at its meeting the draft law proposed by the President of Ukraine and entrusted me with a position to the committee on this subject. The system of constitutional legal principles of local self-government, which has been established in Ukraine for today, is defined by the Constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. In the course of the ratification of the Charter, Ukraine did not make any warnings, so it assumed the responsibility of all, without exception, to comply with its standards. However, there is no question about democratic principles that citizens have the right to participate in the administration of state affairs, and this right can be exercised most directly at the local level, and local authorities are one of the main pillars of any democratic regime. [[What do you mean?]] Regrettably, Ukraine has not yet identified a niche of local self - government in the Ukrainian system of government. The existing model of the territorial organization of government is being implemented through a dual-government system: government administrations appointed from the centre and elected by the population of local authorities. In fact, a socially harmful situation of competition is created when both structures compete for the right to manage resources for control of property. The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Local Self - Government is proposed to define two circumstances: a list of grounds for mistrust by local government administrations and the procedure for dealing with such matters. According to article 118, paragraphs 9 and 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, a district council or a district council may express its mistrust with the local government. We can agree that the Constitution does not adequately regulate the procedure for expressing such mistrust. But, in fact, the Constitution is not the Rules and it does not have to prescribe procedures. Therefore, amending the Law on Local Self-Government, which regulates these issues in more detail, deserves support. However, in section 1, paragraph 2, of the draft law, it is proposed that the law of Ukraine be supplemented by article 72, marking 1, which should provide for grounds and order of mistrust. Part 1 of article 72, marking 1 of the proposed project, lists the full grounds for expressing mistrust with the head of the local government. The right to express mistrust, as already noted, is enshrined in the Constitution, which is not subject to extended or restrictive interpretation. The proposed draft law provides the basis for a list of delegated powers defined by the Law on Local Self - Government. Such a position raises serious objections. According to the relevant provisions of the Constitution, local government administrations are essentially the quasi - implementing bodies of district or district councils. This status is derived from article 119 of the Constitution. An analysis of delegated powers shows that the local administrations exercise the same powers as would be exercised by executive councils, appropriate advice if the Constitution of Ukraine allowed them to be established. As a result of the special status of local administrations, a Council statement is made. The mistrust of the head of the administration is an expression not only of legal responsibility but also of political responsibility. And this nature of responsibility excludes restrictions on it on some or other grounds that might later be tested by, for example, the judicial authorities. The Constitution of Ukraine does not link a statement of mistrust to the head of the administration simply by the exercise of powers delegated by the government authorities of the respective councils. According to Article 4 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, local authorities have the full right to decide freely any matter which is not removed from their sphere of competence and which is not entrusted to any other body. In principle, heads of state administration have to be accountable to the relevant councils in relation to the exercise of any authority that affects the interests of the people of the region or the region. In view of the foregoing, we feel that the law of the exclusive list conflicts with the provisions of article 9 of article 118 of the Constitution. Part 2 of article 72 regulates the procedure for bringing the matter to the Council’s consideration and the procedure for consideration. In our view, these questions should be reflected in the regulations of the appropriate council, not in the law. And all you have to do is write in the law that the rules have to do this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u211	30 seconds, please. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u212	Part 5 foresees that the conclusions of the commission are necessarily available. This is a restriction on the rights of local authorities and is not in line with article 118 of the Constitution. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the project be accepted in the first reading, with due regard for the second reading of comments, which were made by both the Committee and the Scientific and Export Administration. My personal opinion is that this law should be reexamined in the first reading. Return it to the first read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u213	Thank you. We just have 10 minutes to talk. Have a seat, please. It's so clear, I think. Please, then, continue the meeting. We only have 10 minutes. Come on. Let's sign up for the performance. You're going to ask the same question. Please. Try to speak in a concise way. It's weak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Chubarov. Please. Mikola Vasilovich. Kubida. Kuibida, Kuibida. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u214	Decent Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues. Obviously, the Constitution should not regulate in detail the procedure of expression by the district council of mistrust of the head of the appropriate administration. This should be enshrined in the law on local self - government and in the law on government administrations. Events that have taken place since the last months in various areas where there were no head reports, heads of administrations, decisions on mistrust have been made, there has been a imbalance in the executive system, and there is obviously a need for urgent changes to the current legislation to stabilize the situation, and we have heard about this from representatives of the various political forces in this sessionary room. Distrust in the head of the state administration is, in my opinion, not political, but legal, political responsibility. Therefore, the reasons for its identification by the local authorities could be tested under certain conditions, such as by the judicial authorities. In another case, it is obvious that such mistrust can be considered. When it comes solely to political mistrust, to express representative bodies of local self - government, including villages, villages, and cities. Which we don't think makes sense. In part two of article 72, p. The point is that a member of the district council or a district council may initiate a statement of mistrust. But putting this in order of the day, it is suggested that one third of the deputies do so. And it seems to me that this standard is justified. In order not to transform the meetings of the local self - government representative bodies by the initiative of one MP into an endless discussion of mistrust in the head of the appropriate administration. To be completed. The position of part seven of article 72 pr. It sets out an additional basis, apart from what is, a statement of mistrust for the President, and not that he can only, upon the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, release or resign the head of the relevant district or district administration. Pointing out that he can not only release but also resign from the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we can't apply it here for the reasons we've concluded, and because the Constitution of Ukraine in part four allows the President to be released, and the tenth allows the President to resign. So I think this amendment that's being proposed needs to be removed from these considerations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u215	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. Kushnarov has the word. After him, Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u216	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the issue is relevant, especially in view of the specificity of the moment that we are experiencing in the context of the first election on a representative basis. I am a person who has worked as a city head for more than a year, head of the State Administration, i.e. theoretically, I could have been in the same situation where a city or district council could initiate and vote on issues of mistrust. He did not fall because he found common ground with the councils. But he could theoretically. And I agree that these issues should be much more clearly settled. I agree that we should have an appropriate list of situations that give the council the right to initiate this issue. The mechanism for initiating this issue and the procedure for consideration should be clearly defined. I mean, I confirm that regulation of a matter that, to a certain extent, protected the heads of the relevant public administrations is necessary. But I'm asking the question that I'm asking first and foremost to those who initiated this law. Why, at the same time, do we not think about the rights of appropriate counsel that today, even if we express mistrust, with more than two thirds of the votes, cannot exercise this constitutional right? Because these decisions are immediately challenged in the courts, and the head of the appropriate administration, as we understand it, has a huge impact on the decisions of the local courts and whoever does not deny it, I know for sure. So we can and we have a situation today where for months and even years the head of the administration, who has received mistrust from the appropriate council, will continue to work. In those countries that we consider to be an example of democracy, I've studied this experience, there's a system of administrative courts that deals with such situations exclusively in three days and there's a limit to continuing to deal with such issues, it's clearly defined. It is impossible for the community to suffer from the fact that this issue has not been resolved for a long time. And finally, we need to understand that we are living in other political realities today, and the political power that won the local elections certainly has the right to express mistrust to the head of the administration, who represents the political power that lost in these elections, has to be taken into account. So we will properly address this issue only by implementing the second stage of constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u217	Volga. Matvienkov. Matvienkov from the spot. Turn on Matvienkov's microphone from place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u218	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Respected colleagues, the issue was indeed difficult and very difficult and, of course, had to be addressed in the context of constitutional reform reform, combining it with reform of local authorities. One could agree with the Committee's opinion and adopt the bill in the first reading, but one thing must be understood is that by voting for the draft in the first reading we accept the concept and then correcting it will not be easy. And this law has many questions that need to be rectified before the first reading of those points of concern today. First of all. We have studied the faction of the Socialist Party very carefully and have come up with a number of points to which we have not found an answer. Why the evaluation of the activities of the Head of Administration is limited to three points, which do not fully reflect the work of that person, the official. This is the first moment. Second moment. His purely business human, ethical qualities have not been taken into account; they have not been taken into account or reflected anywhere. Next moment. There are points that are already set out here and already in conflict. I mean, there are decisions that apply to the Presidential Administration. However, dismissal takes place or the President decides on the basis of the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. We thus have the President's right to take decisions, we narrow down his rights, and thus show that the good will of the Cabinet of Ministers will be done, that they will make their decision, that they will have their opinion. They will not be well-willed, so they will not give an introduction to the President's administration and to the President. That is, they are taking over the Presidential branch of power. And the next moment in the bill is also a very serious issue. What is the matter within six months is not the right of the Council to consider the work of the Head of Administration. For six months is quite a time to come back, so if you'll excuse me, there's something that needs to be done quickly. Six months of the Board's work, six months before the Council's end, plus six months of the work of the Head of Administration, all of which are taboo, not audited, not reviewed. Therefore, given that the system, indeed the elections, are now taking place on a proportionate basis, given that we need to continue constitutional reform, bring it to a low level, and we have the understanding of issues that really need to be addressed on the issue of local governance reform. I believe that this law should be re-readed, the faction's decision was, and then in the context of the reform of the political system, the continuation of constitutional reform, to consider from that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u219	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'd like to ask all the MPs, today is really hard for the President in this respect, because there are a lot of colossalities that arise and need to be intervened quickly. And sometimes we see subjective approaches in solving this issue, and naturally, the definition of the grounds for liberation, by the way, as the obvious justification for the assignment, must be regulated by the law on local self - government. Because at the local level, especially at the district level, both the council and the administration, they know each other very well. Clearly, then, these details need to be taken into account. But look, we have three reasons: two are for which the President will release and without the consent of the Council. Because not to execute the plan, to make things worse, and so on, we've seen this on recent examples of the Cabinet of Ministers initiatives. Because the heads of the district administration have been released, literally, by a few men at once, and I think that's what this right is. Therefore, there is no need to write it down in the law on local self - government. But on the other hand, there are many nuances that are not regulated by law today. So, especially in terms of the procedural points that are written here, I think they're literate. But as for the grounds and other things, you have to trust the MPs at the local level. So I have this proposal, let's support a few of these. Let's send the first reading again, the committee is working with the President's mind and mind, and the Ministry of Justice, and other initiatives from factions. And then we'll do the best we can for both the President and the entire management system. I'll set it up now, I'm not breaking the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u220	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Alexandre Alexandrovich, I understand what you're talking about, and I'm almost holding to your thoughts, but still, based on the relevance of a quicker solution to this situation, in which there are sometimes both the President and the local self-government, and the executive authorities. And just to get a little bit of a little bit more out of the way, to speed up the work on this bill, I would still think that it's appropriate for the committee to take the first reading, because for the second reading of everything that's been said here today and it's not said it's going to be included, we're going to get a completely different document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m0.u221	I take it well that procedure requires a committee's first proposal as a basis. I'm asking you to vote. [[14:19:32]] For – 55 There was a second suggestion to re-read. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[14:19:56]] For – 246 Decision taken. Thank you for your activity, and I'm calling it a 16-hour break. The morning session is closed.
