ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:25]] They registered in the session hall of 397 Ukrainian national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, it's Dawimuki Stepan Antonovich's birthday. Let us welcome our colleague, and we wish him good health and success. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on February 7, 2006. 17 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, eight laws and two decrees were passed, two bills were adopted on a basis, and six bills were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: one law has been passed in a new edition, one law has been repealed. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, we delivered presentations by authorized representatives of MPs, factions with statements, reports, information and queries. And we agreed that today we would just announce the parliamentary questions that came to the Secretariat in writing, and then we would move on to work on Wednesday's schedule. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Oleg TGAGNIBOK to the President of Ukraine, acting as prime minister of Ukraine for the immediate condemnation of the crimes of the Communist regime and for the prohibition of communist ideology as a hateful man who has caused irreparable harm to the Ukrainian people. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:34]] For-55 Request not supported. Ms. CHICHANOVA to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of article 106 of the Constitution regarding the head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Ivanov, to whom the Sevastopol City Council expressed its mistrust. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:11]] For 172 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:33]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Vassil Hara to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the transfer of preschool education No. 628 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Minister of Finance for the Breakdown in 2005 of the Water and Gasification Programme for Rural Populations of the Biotzerkow Region of Kyiv Region. Maria MARKUS to the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine's responsibility to resolve the issue of clearing cars that are provided to disabled persons on the humanitarian line in line with the Chief Executive and the social protection of the population of the Zacarpathian District Administration. Maria MARKUS to the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a special commission and the restoration of the work of the Tachiv district film industry. Victor PETROVA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Attorney-General to verify the presence of corruption in the actions of the former head of the Yampil district government of the Vinnitsk district of Komar, to restore the activities of the agricultural enterprise in the villages of Gonorovka and the Romanian province. Anatholic to the prime minister's responsibilities regarding the issue of pension insurance for the people of the Hersonian region and the improvement of the material and technical base of the regional pension funds. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister's duty to violate the constitutional rights of the people of Cherniewec to a sufficient standard of living in connection with the failure to comply with the State obligation to gasify the region, the introduction into service of the gas pipeline and the branch of the Watchtower. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the prime minister's responsibility to increase the amount of fees for primary schools in rural areas. Alexander ABDULLIN to the prime minister's duty to amend the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the size of the funeral aid in part of the increase in the amount of material aid for the burial of citizens who are not insured in the system of compulsory public social insurance. Anatoly of DOMANS to the prime minister's duties regarding the introduction of the chaplain service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Victor DIVORCE to the prime minister's responsibility to deploy a microbus to the Regional Rehabilitation Centre of the People with Disabilities, BelUkrRos. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, for failure to comply with the rules of legislation on pay and payment to medical personnel in the district of Poltava. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Prime Minister's duties on the basis of the financing of expenditure on the work of vocational and technical education workers in January 2006 at 80 per cent. Michael BAUER to the prime minister's responsibility to pay off the debt for the construction of the Vančičkiewice School of Education in the region of Czernovetsec. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister's duty to provide information on the status of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yashchenk “Ten Steps to Meet People” in the creation of five million jobs. Vadima GUROVA to the prime minister's duties in connection with the situation in the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Victor MIRANJENNA to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds to address the heat and water problems of the cities of Colkine and Kerchi. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's task of resupplying biological sewage treatment stations “South” and “North” in Odessa. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the prime minister's duties regarding the water supply situation of the village of Nova Praha in the region of Kyrovograd. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister's responsibility to transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Poltava the construction and construction of the decommissioned military unit for housing under the Housing and Military Program and the benefits categories of citizens. Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties in connection with the critical status of providing the spring-field work package in 2006. [[SYMONENKO, TRAINING, FRENCH]] Vladimir PETRENK to the Prime Minister's duties to suspend the Cabinet of Ministers' orders of 16 December 2004 “To suspend the consideration of matters relating to the assignment of names”. Alexander GOLUBA to the prime minister’s duties in gasification of the village of Obrazzeyevka in the region of the Sustkin district. A PANASIAN Oleg to the prime minister's financial responsibilities for the Crevice Mining and Enriching combination of oxidized ores. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the prime minister's duties regarding the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of the regulations governing the conditions of payment for officials of local self-government bodies in accordance with the legislation in force. Vladimir LECHENKA to the prime minister's responsibility for delaying the development by the Cabinet of Ministers of the mechanism for financing Chernobyl social programmes in 2006. Alexander MASSENKA to the prime minister's duties regarding the situation of natural gas consumers in the open-ended company LubniGaz of the Poltava region. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the prime minister for failure to fulfil social guarantees for budget officials in rural areas. Groups of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties in connection with the underfunding of budgetary programmes and the non-implementation of legislation on the introduction of tariff rates in the coal industry. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, HARA]] Valery BORZOVA to the Acting Prime Minister, head of the Lugansk District Administration for the reconstruction of the fire-damaged centre of the Teplogirsk Sports Organization. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Prime Minister's responsibility to implement the Cabinet of Ministers' mandate to approve measures to address socio-economic problems in the village of Stepnoirian Basilic region of Zaporozhye. VADIM MISSURE to the Prime Minister's duties to ensure the functioning of the “Petrikowka” National Art Centre. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to serve as Prime Minister, head of the Kirovograd District Administration for the completion of the gasification of the village of Trepiuk of the Poznamyan region. Anatoly of the scribe to the prime minister, head of the Zaporozhye District Administration, on the gasification of the city of Molochánská Tokmak district. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister's duty to finance arrangements for the celebration of 150 years from the date of John Frank's birth. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the prime minister's obligation to provide a subsidy in the 2006 State budget for the gasification of the villages of the Winnicki district of Winnicki district. Alexander TKALENKA to the prime minister's duties of social tension in connection with the threat of mass layoffs from the Open Shareholder Society “Hersonnaft Processing”. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties on government measures aimed at preventing technological accidents and reforming housing and utilities. [[RIMARCUK, RIBAK, BACHTEIVA]] Oleg TGAGNIBOK to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors for the deliberate bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Society “Lvivsilmash”, land ownership and property of the enterprise and the criminal inaction of local authorities. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board of Internal Affairs, on the situation that has taken place in the Ukrainian housing and utility economy. [[COMAR, LAPIN, RIMARUK]] Vladimir Paka to the prime minister's duties regarding the purpose of dutyless trade at points of entry through the state border of Ukraine. Anatholic to the Prime Minister’s responsibilities regarding the social protection of Hersonian education workers and the need for computerization of individual schools. Mr Karmazin and Mr Volodymira ČERNJAK are responsible for the performance of the Prime Minister's duties regarding the compatibility of the digital signature infrastructure in Ukraine with EU legislation. Deputies to the Prime Minister's duty to prevent the reduction of State support in the area of health for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[KILK, SULKOVSKI, RIBAC]] Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties regarding the unsatisfactory preparation of agriculture for spring and field work. [[Infantry, Thurmans]] GEORGIA MANCHULENA to the prime minister's responsibility to create competitive high-tech energy-saving products. MICHELLA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the development of a List of Cultural Heritage Monuments that are not privatized. Petra CIBENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the renewal of the rights of war veterans to income tax benefits. Mr. Alexander Golub to perform the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko to provide the disabled with a telephone connection. JAROSLA KENJORA to the Attorney General for the activities of the Ukrainian branch of the Institute of SND countries, led by Vladimir Cornilov in Kiev, and the sources of its funding. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General on the legality of financing self - advertising by the performer of the duties of Winnick’s city head, the secretary of the town council of Groysman. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on unlawful actions aimed at the removal of land in the farm “Bosco” of the region of Kirovograd. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General for decisions taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a result of a review of the activities of the former Head of the Foundation of the State of Majna Chechtev. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General’s Office in connection with the situation surrounding the Society with the limited responsibility of “Mria” in the city of Kyrovgrad. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the Attorney General on the investigation of a criminal case involving the abuse of the office of the head of the Dnipropetrov River Port. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General’s Office in connection with the situation that took place in the “EnergoWugil” and “Explerent” labour teams in the city of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the delay in criminal proceedings against Mirgograd city head Poutov for the loss of 2.5 million dollars to the state. Valeria Assadchev to the Attorney General on the objectivity of the criminal investigation. Leonida KADENUKA to the Attorney General for improper response to the MP’s request that the Directorate General for Consumer Protection be inactive. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney-General on the protection of land and property rights of the private-rent company “Victoria” of the village of Karapchev in the region of Czernovec. Vladimir W.W.A. to the Attorney General for failure to comply with a controlling package of shares of the Open Shareholders Association “Herson cotton combination” of investment commitments and violations of labour legislation. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs's duties in the investigation of the case of the capture of the film complex “Kino Art House “Odessa”. Vladimir NOVAKA and Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of electoral legislation by the head of the Starosinava District Government Administration of the Hmelnicke District. LEFT GLUCHIVIH to the Attorney General about the investigation into the murder of a citizen of Hamek, a participant in the event in Kiev during the orange revolution. Lilia GREGOROVIĆ to the Attorney General, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to investigate the death of a multi - child mother. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the misconduct of members of the Kharkiv militia. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General regarding the inflammation of international hostility on the language ground by the “National Opposition” of Natalia Vitrenko and the “Regions of Ukraine” of Viktor Yanukovic. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the responsibility of the head of the Alexandrian Rural Council of the Zakartat district of Kovac for the abuses and damage to the state. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General's Office, Security Service for the Implementation of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On Unqualified Action by Executive Authorities for Consumers of Ukraine by Natural Gas”. Aleksandra KEMENYASA to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the invocation of the responsibility of officials who impede the execution of the court’s decision. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney-General on the constitutional rights of employees of the labour force PMS-Bud and PrivatMedServices and on the responsibility of officials who abuse the position of office violate these rights. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens affected by the crime. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General, acting as Justice Minister for failure to execute the Trudovska Mine for the court’s decision. Vladimir VUŠA to the Attorney General, Head of the Herson District State Administration, on the liquidation of the arrears paid to employees of the Chewchenk Novotroitsky District College. Igora ŠURMI and Yuri SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the verification of information regarding the participation of Petroz in corruption transactions between the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz and Rossukrenergo, as well as the involvement of Peter Yashchenka in these arms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General for violations of legislation, property and other rights of the Great Alexandrian Consumer Society of the Hersonian Region. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the SBU in an attempt to attack the national MP, Taras Crnovola, on his election trip to Ternopil district. [[COMAR, LAPIN, RIMARUK, AND OTHERS]] MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General for the incomplete examination by the authorities of the previous investigation of the circumstances of the theft of collective property by a cooperative of the village of Nepedivka in the Kozyatin district of the Winnitsky region. Victor TURMANOVA and Mikaly Komara to the Attorney General, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, in response to a dissatisfaction with the request for criminal persecution by Alexander Gerasimenko. Group of Deputies to the Attorney General on the legal assessment of failure by the perpetrator of duties. [[ISAIAH, BACHTEI, AND OTHERS]] Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the unskilled actions of executive authorities from providing consumers of Ukraine with natural gas”. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Secretary of the RNBO, Acting Minister of Environmental Protection, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the deterioration of the ecological state of the Right River watershed, the exacerbation of pollution and water quality as a result of the implementation of the draft latrine of the area under the collective gardens “Zamimie – 17” and “Zimije – 18” within the framework of the Zasima Rural Council of the Brovary Region. Mr. Mikoli Katerinczuk, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, and Ministry of Health for the improper performance of their duties as medical personnel in the city of Kharkiv. Larissa VAZAČENKO to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing for the procedure for carrying out the payment of the debt for the reduced contributions for housing and utility services. Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the State Committee for Statistics concerning Ukrainians who are employed outside the homeland. PARASONS OF CATUSH’S to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy’s duty to pay the cost of burying war invalids — participants in hostilities, relatives of the dead. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Minister of Education and Science’s responsibilities for the award of the computer class to the Vakulenchukov School of Public Education in the area of Zidomir. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Minister of Internal Affairs’ responsibilities regarding the imbalance in pension insurance for persons released from internal affairs. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster in connection with the crash of a residential building in Chaplinka, Hersson district. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors on the situation at the “Micholai International Airport” utility. VICTOR MIRANENA to the Minister of Transport and Communications’s duties regarding the provision of seaports with working papers and seaman’s certificates. Anton KISSE to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the opening of the 42nd km of the Odessa-Rani State Route. Larissa VACHENCO to the Health Ministry’s responsibility to ensure adequate and accessible treatment for chronic renal insufficiency. PENALTIES OF CATUS to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy’s responsibility to provide health - care services to veterans of war at their place of residence. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Ministry of Justice for failing to execute a court order for the prosecution of the Zgurivian district for the benefit of the residents of the District of Rivezni district to the agricultural society with limited responsibility for the collection of debts under the contract. LEG PANASOVSKO to the Minister of Industrial Policy, the Secretary of RNBO, for the situation around the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. Victor DRACHEVSKI to perform the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs with regard to the introduction of legislation that regulates the conditions of payment for the work of officials of internal affairs bodies in accordance with the legislation in force. Vladimir PETRENCA is responsible for the Ministry of Social Policy and the work on the allocation of the disabled car of the Great Homeland War. Jury KRUKA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Search of a Sailor, a Ukrainian citizen. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Minister of Finance’s responsibility to fund the construction of a pedestrian bridge in the village of Nelipino in the Zakarpatsky region. VOLADIMARY JAVORIJA to the Minister of Justice’s duties to clarify the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal regarding the trial of the murder of Georgia Gongadze in a closed regime that raises public doubts about the objectivity of the investigation and may be regarded as an attempt to conceal the names of the perpetrators of the crime. GOVERNING the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Health, Head of the Donetsk District State Administration, for the removal of the submergment of the homes of the inhabitants of Volnovah. VADIM MISSURA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the provision of free medical care and the treatment of a disabled person. MIKOLI MELNIKA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the deportation of a Russian citizen named Valentina Kumaratová or her criminal responsibility for crimes committed in Ukraine. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy’s responsibilities in the development of seed and selection in the Luhansk region. THE Minister of Education and Science’s duties in connection with gross and mass violations, constitutional rights at work, respect for honor, dignity, oppression, and persecution for the political reasons of the directors of the schools in the province of Ravenna, the leaders of the regime and the education department. Vladimir Paka to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal actions of the employees of the Rocinnian District Police Department of the Kyiv Region and security guards during the settlement of the civil and legal dispute over the Rokitnian market. Groups of National Deputies to the Secretary of State for the Implementation of Coal Production, Wage Payments, Rate Rates and Principles for the Distribution of State Support to Businesses. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, HARA]] Jury SOLOMATAN to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of the Department of State for Execution of Penalties on the Conditions of residing in the Correctional Colony of a citizen of the Russian Federation of Romanov, convicted in the so - called Commodore case. Ms. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Head of the Council of Judges, Head of the High Council of Justice on the corruption of the judiciary, in particular Judge Smik of the district court of Kiev. Jurija KOSTENKA repeats her request to the Kiev City Head for the need to protect social morality in connection with the location at the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk “Haty in Priorca” of external advertising. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in Kharkiv district regarding the investigation of a criminal case. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the issue of judiciality in the case of a traffic accident in Kirovograd. A group of deputies to the Head of the Board, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Justice with regard to the activities of the public organisations “Kyoto” and the Falungun Association. [[CHELNOKOV, SOLOMATAN, SAMOYLIC]] Mikoli Melniczuk to the Head of the C.E.U.S.A. on the investigation of a criminal case involving explosions in Winnici’s 2002 - 2003 taxis. Mr. Michael DOBKINA to serve as Head of the Supreme Justice Council and Head of the Supreme Court, Attorney General for the removal of the constitutional right to housing of a citizen named Diddkov, Judge of the District District Court of Kharkiv. Jury RUCA to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration on matters of integration into the international transport system. Vladimir YAVORIYSKA to the Head of the Kiev District State Administration to assist representatives of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in accessing the site of the shrine of Ukrainian Cossation, the former Spaso-Prevention Inter-Igorian Monastery, for the purpose of providing him with the status of the National Reserve, which, today and under the previous regime, is a closed zone under the control of the DSS. TAMAR DEPARTMENT TO THE Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the extracurricular allocation of the family’s apartment to the victims in connection with the accident at CHAES. FIXA to the Head of the Donetsk district government to ensure the proper maintenance of houses in Donetsk. Anatholics of the Writership to the Head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for the mass disconnection of the buildings of the inhabitants of the Tachiv district of the area from energy supply. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of Staff of the Pension Fund on the groundless refusal to grant a pension on extended terms to the inhabitants of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Odessa. Walery BORZOVA to the Head of the Ternopil State Administration on the inaction of officials of the Ternopil Reich administration regarding the review of the appeal of the “Cascad” sports environmental club for the removal of water resources. GOVERNMENT TO THE Head of the Plain State Administration, the Raven City Head for Sanitation and Environmental Standards in the city of Raven. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Head of the Supreme Court regarding the misconduct of the judge of the Kamenobrod District Court of Lugansk. Efima FIXA to the Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration on the violation of the requirements of the Law on Housing and Utilities, ignoring citizens' appeals regarding the inadequate maintenance of housing facilities by the executive authorities of the Kyiv district of Donetsk. MICHAYLA ACCOMMODATED with the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Secretary - General of the RNB, the Prosecutor - General, the Head of the BSB, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the threat of mass falsifications to the local authorities in the Donetsk region on March 26, 2006. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Head of the holdmain Foundation for the retraining of the children’s clinic in the Obolon district of Kyiv. Alexander COLONIARI to the Head of the Head of the Security Council for the verification of the use of State budget funds in Mariupoli. A group of deputies to the Head of the BSC on the investigation of smuggling across the border of military equipment worth nearly $3 million. [[BUIKO, STRETOVIC, PHYDENKO]] VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district administration, the performer of Vinicki’s duties as the city’s head, for the contemptuous treatment of the officials of the city of Winnici, for the immediate life problems of a participant in the Great Homeland War. Anatolya MOROSA to the Head of the National Television and Radio Board on the issue of granting a television license to the utility “What kind of television and radio talk”. TO THE Head of the U.S. District Administration, Tamara, for the purpose of providing a family with disabilities to the first group that is unfit for housing. Victor TEREN to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the conversion of the Bogorodčany Heat Economy into a self-employed enterprise with legal personality status. Jury KOSTENKA to the Head of the Board, Secretary of the RNB on the impartial investigation of the situation outlined in the address of the Donetsk District Public Administration “Legal Protection”. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the city’s Kiev head regarding violations of sanitary standards and construction requirements in the town’s Pecher district. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv region for the illegal involvement of a citizen in criminal proceedings. Thus, honourable colleagues, 138 requests were made. According to factions: “Ukraine” - 17, Communist faction - 34, “Ukraine” - 11, National Party - 6, BUT - 9, SPI - 7, National Block - 8, SDPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 6, “Rebirth” - 3, non-fractional - 3. This is where they insist. The four deputies responded with dissatisfaction. We can do this all the time because everyone will be dissatisfied with the answers. Well, we're not done yet. Well, let's do it. Well, we haven't finished the first question. Let's get this over with. Read it. It will be. Well, let's finish, let's ask, we're not done. The point is, honourable colleagues, asking questions, speeches and dissatisfaction with answers are one question. When we finish it, then your question will be. You understand that perfectly. In view of Schurm’s dissatisfaction with his response. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u2	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] It seems to me that today the question of energy security, the energy security of the state, is subject to the number one discussion everywhere at government level and at the level of the household, when it's all spoken of by ordinary citizens, knowing what's at risk. I asked for official information on the founders and statutory activities of Rosukrenerego. I received a very interesting answer from the doer of Jehanurov’s duties. It turns out that Ukraine’s energy security in line with the contracts is committed to a firm whose statutory fund, the original capital, is $76,000. That's it. As far as the founders are concerned, there is a complete misunderstanding. They didn't give me any family. Either Mr. Yehanurov doesn't understand what he wants, or he just wants to get into the whoredom of a national MP. Then there is the question: How will Ukrainian society feel? I was given the names of the company’s shareholders, two of whom were Russian and one Swiss. All of it. Is it a problem to obtain such data? In an ex-head interview with the Turkinov, he said that there were no problems getting names of founders and major statutory activities of RossUkrEnergo. All you have to do is contact the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. Given that Prime Minister Yehanurov's responsibilities do not provide comprehensive information, ask the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, to investigate and provide data, which is still the founder. As one of the executives of the Raiffeisenbank says 50 percent of RossUkreenergo refers to the firm Centroges. It turns out that another firm has to provide or make profits from the supply of this gas to Ukraine. Moreover, RosUkrenergo needs to be known in Ukraine for one reason. One day before the signing of all the contracts for the company Petroz, registered in Dubai, they counted $50 million. It is not a single case of listing these funds for the company “Petrogoz”. There's unofficial information and it's on the Internet in Europe and it's touched by the closest environment of the President of Ukraine, especially Peter Yushchenko. I'd like Mr. Peter to come out to the rostrum and say, yes or no, he has a touch or he has no touch and he has all the insinuations removed. I call it a special name to use the replica. The President of Ukraine is obviously not referring to the Ukrainian Security Service for one reason, and a 20% reduction in the individual composition wants to set itself on the goal of weakening this structure. That's why he's not responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u3	Yes, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. You have the right to speak. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u4	Respectful citizens, respected national deputies, most of us were born and lived in villages, and know what it is like to winter in the village, when there is no straw, no wood, no peat, no briquette, no coal, three or five times expensive, and winter, which has been or is today a reminder that such winters can now be in the order of 25, for it is a natural cycle. And the Supreme Council was taking measures for rural gasification, and in the 2005 budget there was a large amount of funding. Unfortunately, these funds were only implemented by 30%, no more, and the budget was not used in the treasury. Here's an example. There is no gas in Kiev’s village 20 km away. The Cagarlic famous region, the bush of villages, Rasavka, Zikrachi, Halča, and Voronivka, who are dying and who need this gas, because otherwise their natural death, the population will disperse, especially the young. For five years we have been fighting to get the gas pipeline to this bush of villages. For five years, the pipes lie in canoes, in fields, in swamps, and for this year, up to 850,000 were allocated to four villages, and only 250,000 funds were spent from Minfina, and they were issued in December. I think that this statement should be regarded as a direct request to the Attorney General to verify how the budget finances are planned and used. They've created such a mechanism of calculating the cost of gas, that agricultural gasification is going to be years in the swamp. We demand that the government of Yehanurov this year in 2006, when the Supreme Council allocated 450 million not to repeat its last year's feat, but to ensure the execution of agricultural gasification. The Minister of Finance avoided signing a reply to a request from the National MP, signed by the chiefs of the administration, followed by: Ministers are a violation. We demand that such violations be stopped, that they be treated by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u5	Victor Mironenko is invited to prepare Zari Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u6	Respectable compatriots! The Communist faction, Mironenko. Having received another reply from the Attorney General's Office, which is not only encouraging but also extremely disturbing, I would like to draw attention to the following. Private, poor citizens see in all regions of Ukraine the same, a cynical celebration enriched by capitalist privatization and corruption of power thieves in the law and their impoverishable, absolute injustice cannot achieve justice, the rule of law. House No. 4 on the Gorodecko Street in Kiev has been fighting for five years against the illegal privatization of their home with a business structure. They cannot exercise their constitutional legal rights by means of a prosecutor, a court. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 2 March 2004, the latrines and basements of dwellings are subsidiary premises and are common property of the owners of apartments. According to the Housing Privatization Act, article 10, part 2, “Assistance facilities of housing shall not be privatized separately”. However, according to House Number 4 on the Gorodetsky Street, officials of the Privatization and Communal Property Fund of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev have exceeded their authority by falsifying documents, and have privatized the premises of House Number 4. Criminal case No. 600735 of 1 September 2003 was initiated in connection with this illegal privatization. For more than two years, instead of punishing the perpetrators, to protect the illegally injured tenants of house number 4, including participants in the Great Homeland War, liberators of Kiev, deserving cultural workers, science, the prosecutor's office of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev is trying to close the criminal case. The Chevchenkov District Court of Kiev and the Court of Appeal of Kiev protected the Constitution and the law and prevented the closure of the criminal case. At the request of the injured tenants, house number 4 in connection with the manifest fibrous force in the case of 19 December 2005, I sent a second request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, but the Office of the Attorney-General, by limiting the interim write-off, has not so far provided me with a specific response to the victims. This may indicate that the Attorney-General's Office is already carrying out the fibula, seeking to ensure the closure of the criminal case, although this is a violation of the law. I request the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the Constitution, the legislation of Ukraine to protect the constitutional rights of the tenants of house number 4. Dear Chairman! In view of the unsatisfactory response to the request, with the actual write-off, please consider this statement to be my request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u7	Zara Katusheva is invited to attend in connection with her dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u8	Respectable Ukrainian people's deputies, as well as Crimea citizens. The high rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament allows us to tell our voters the truth about many events and facts that affect the acute problems of our lives. Myths about honest power, the eradication of corruption in the courts and the public prosecutor's offices are now perceived as a mockery of people, an attempt to avoid the responsibility of officials and senior officials, both in Crimea and in Ukraine. The consistent political force, which has always defended and protected the interests of the people, has not been and remains Communists in charge of the “roar” of the looting of ordinary labourers. It's not pre-election agitation. As evidence of this, protests, hundreds of signatures of citizens who cannot allow further looting of Crimea lands to be attributed by lease to the best coastal areas of the Sun Crimea. And, above all, in the historical part of the Levadian Reserve. If returnees of the Crimean Tatar people occupy unused territories to build their families, there is no limit to the indignation of officials. In the area of Lower Orenda, Ukraine's natural-intelligence fund, which is protected by law, a private firm called Pax, registered in an apartment in the town of Alubka, receives 1,600 square metres, fences itself, and puts trees under construction. If, today, bulldozers pave the way for the cathode of famous businessmen on the Crest Mountain day and night, the famous royal path known to us and abroad is destroyed, the Crimea Prosecutor's Office is silent, the Crimea leaders are on their way. Landowners of the environmental health inspection service and apparently not uselessly, are authorizing looting projects. Simple people are protesting against Pax, Renaissance, which barbaric and cynically lord it over the reserve: they demolished the kindergarten, destroy the vegetation. This is not easy because the request and requests of the people's representative for a new head of the Crimea Government from his new cabinet report that the facts are not confirmed, and the Levadian Village Council is preparing itself for trial against its constituents. It is understandable to whom such authority serves and whose interests it advocates. Unfortunately, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not look better, since, having obtained land for her family on the coast, she has already lost the right to demand that the law be respected by officials and businessmen. The last message from the inhabitants of the village of Lower Orenda is that they will not be reconciled and ready for the most decisive action. Six months in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u9	Thank you, that's all. Dear National Deputies! We've completed our first discussion. I'd like to make an announcement. Today, at 2 p.m. on the third floor, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Invitations and messages are sent to you. I'd like to take part in the meeting. The three factions called for a break. I understand there's a need to make a statement. Please, I'm asking you to prepare for Yuri the Ripper, then Vladimir Boyke, and the Humor will perform. Please, Yuri the Sparrow. Prepare the Battle of Volodymyr Semenovich and Humiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! I'd like you not to look at your material now, but to draw attention to what I'm going to say. I am authorized by two factions: “Our Ukraine” and “The People’s Movement of Ukraine”. In recent times, a series of publications have been published in Europe that have disgraced the feelings of millions of religious Muslims. This has caused great opposition and a storm of disapproval around the world. And, unfortunately, Ukraine has also been affected. Yesterday's newspaper “Today”, belonging to the famous oligarch Renata Ahmetov, has shown the same cartoons that so cynically tarnish the beliefs and feelings of Muslims around the world. I think and our faction thinks it's a very strong provocation. And we call on the President of Ukraine, the Security Service, the Prosecutor's Office and the Head of the Supreme Council to investigate this fact and immediately evaluate it, because he is, in fact, ignoring the standards of our current Constitution and fueling religious rejection and national hostility. I request that these services conduct a full, complete investigation into this. I believe that our Human Rights and Media Committee must immediately hold meetings on this issue and issue a decree of the Supreme Council condemning it. We believe that snorkeling in elections in a dirty way, when national and religious intolerance is generated around Ukraine and in the middle of Ukraine, is unacceptable. Therefore, government factors need to intervene immediately and sharply in order to ensure that there is no such thing in the future. Peace and peace in Ukraine is the highest value, and we support these constitutional principles in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u11	Vladimir Seminovich Boyko is invited from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, members of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine are deeply concerned about the situation in the country. Beyond the heavy curtain of the political electoral battalion, it remains undetected that the country is balancing the economic divide. The past year has been difficult for the economy of Ukraine and, above all, for the main donor of the budget, the steel industry. With GDP growth projected at the beginning of the year, 6.5 was in fact 2.4 per cent. Unwarranted, unwarranted decisions on the revaluation of the bracelet, the rise of rail tariffs almost twice, the 45 per cent price of electricity, and the 18 per cent natural gas required a well-predicted sharp deterioration in the world metal market. Metal sales prices fell by 35 per cent in 2005. By the end of the year, production productivity had dropped to 5 per cent. The economic situation has worsened since the beginning of 2006. The economy has reversed its GDP growth forecast at Gosbudget, reducing it from 7.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent. Already in January, the production of iron, steel, and propellants was reduced compared to December of last year. In monetary terms, this means the loss of the budget income of almost 400 million rubles in January. It's not going to be better in February or March. Production of coke, concentrate and other products of the metallurgical complex has fallen sharply due to the decrease in production. Against this background, the situation with the price of gas and its volume of supplies is generally a detective. In today's circumstances, there has been an unaccounted-for decline in volume. Gas for industrial enterprises not only reduces output, increases its cost-effectiveness, but also leads to high accidents. In addition, a further increase of 12 per cent in rail tariffs is proposed, and the cost of electricity is 10-15 per cent. After a short improvement in the VAT situation for exporters, the amount of the budget arrears for reimbursement began to rise again. There are all signs of a crisis in Ukraine's economy. In the current situation, the faction believes it is necessary to establish an anti-crisis committee whose task should be to take ongoing and forward-looking measures to address the economic crisis. To convene a political council to discuss how to address the crisis. Freeze the prices of monopolies, lower the tariffs on rail transport by at least 30 per cent. Ensure a VAT recovery mechanism within one month of the date of the tax declaration. To submit to the Supreme Council and to support the draft Ukrainian law aimed at promoting the rational use of these economic resources, the introduction of energy-saving technologies, to clarify the mechanism for the pricing of natural gas for the promotion of energy-saving technologies. Businesses for the current year. Unfortunately, there's no time, it's
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u13	Yes, Sergey Gmira is invited from the Communist faction and the SPDU (o).
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u14	Thank you. Sergei Gmyrra, Communist faction, Alchevsk. I want to address all the deputies. The Communist faction categorically insists on the immediate consideration of a set of issues related to the situation in Alchevsk, my hometown and the general public. There are relevant regulations to be considered and adopted. Dear colleagues, the issue of the Alcev accident is a matter of state-wide concern. In a situation where utilities have been abandoned for 15 years, and today's authorities are thinking more about joining NATO than they are about preparing for the winter. This may occur in any Ukrainian settlement, from "a" to "I", from Alcevska and Alexandria to Yalta and Yagotina. We greedy people are grateful to the thousands who have responded to our plight and have come to help us. But we would like the authorities to show the same help, which unfortunately is not visible today. The President's decree is not fully implemented. I have, I have a call from the parents of children who are in Eupatoria, in the Sun and Prometheus sanatoriums, and they complain that it is terribly cold and uncomfortable. Two and a half million just went into the bracelet, while Georgia was given the same amount in dollars. Incomprehensible schemes are used. This issue needs to be addressed and addressed immediately. And yet another, distinguished colleague, you know, is saying that tomorrow the President will be speaking with his report, which unfortunately we have not yet seen. I really wanted to. The question of Alchevsk should be considered before the report, because the President has a great debt to my city. On 22 August, when the biggest innovation was introduced in Ukraine, the President arrived in Alchevsk, and made a firm public promise, he was placed on a paper table with Alchevska's problems, he categorically promised: “I will do anything to keep Alchevsk warm. An order will be prepared within a week.” The week goes by, the other comes to the President's Office, and the press secretary says, "Today is Saturday, all normal people, and it has become, and the President is resting." Wait till the order's in place. Five months have passed — nothing. Dear colleagues, Alchevsk did everything he could for Ukraine. Over the past four years, 745 million have been budgeted and 260 have been budgeted. There has been a threefold increase in income in Ukraine's budget and only 45 per cent in the city budget. Now Alchevsk is waiting for us to help him. Otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments and referrals, based on the information that has been given in the speeches, queries, reports of the Ukrainian National Deputies. From the Ukrainian People's Party and the Reforms and Order Party, the national MP Movchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Ukrainian People's Party, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Block Kostenko and Plusha. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'm just amazed at some general political blindness. At a time when Russia is waging an open economic war against Ukraine, we are searching for internal enemies. And then, when a neglected, neglected community farm that actually didn't spend a penny, and I can say that today, on the basis of statements made by the head of the Committee of Budget People, Paulina Suprun, who said that Alchevska kopecka last year and the deceased had not been placed on municipal needs. In fact, everything is turning upside down today. It is all attributed to all the sins of that power that have led the whole community to an absolute crisis, to erosion, to trumpets, to everything, without altering the taps, nothing. Today, everything is copied and transferred to modern - day authority. You understand very well that the wealth that went on, in that so-called residential area today or in a region that seemed to have made Ukraine happy, when, you know, the fraction of coal is small, which has been accumulated for decades, you know, it's been a turnout, and it's sold to TEC. All these manipulations are well known. But I'm surprised by the other. Today, those who say that they will make the entire population of Ukraine happy will lead, and the political forces will lead to the ruin of Ukraine. I would like them to stand in these general oppositions. Reject all the accusations that the Robber has made, national, language, reject, these are not your cards. What are you playing at? You remember, there was a block called “The Elephant”, headed by Green's former deputy head of the Supreme Council. He formed such a political union, going exclusively to anti - Ukrainian slogans. What did they do? 0.1. Language issues never become social questions in life. And never from solving language problems, as you wish, for the benefit of a foreign nation, absolutely. Because that country that is inhabited by those indigenous populations is doing everything for the growth of Russian language, Russian culture. We put four million and then aligned the budget committee to 20 for the development of the Ukrainian language, can we compete with the 450 million that are budgeted in Russia for the development of the Russian language in Ukraine? Surrender and do regular repairs, budget, and then promise Ukraine good and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. Regarding language problems, I ask the people’s deputies to visit a book fair, an exhibition, and to obtain interesting literature during a break. I was at this show yesterday, and when I talked about what the Supreme Council should make the right decisions, go back to the face of this problem, I suggested to the publishers that they make specific proposals, what the Supreme Council of Ukraine should do, because we had a vote, and then everyone ran, and no one was dealing with these problems. Where are the bills for this? They're gone. Just a minute. We're on our way. I'm just asking everyone to come and see the show. Wonderful books can be bought and seen with wonderful prospects. I have never heard proposals made during a meeting of the Conciliation Board. We'll see them tomorrow, next week. Come on. No questions asked. We have a thousand and a half bills. Maybe we should take the initiative. Yes, please, dear colleagues, calm down. I just invited everyone to the show. Let us proceed to the consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. Second reading. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service, registration number 8047, is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Rapporteur of the Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Following the adoption of the bill, some 200 comments and suggestions were received, not counting essentially editorial ones. Of these, 139 are fully accounted for, 27 with more detail, not supported - 34, although many of them simply repeat themselves. Such principles of complementing are introduced. We have found it necessary not to reveal in detail the problem of mobilization, because there is a separate law, to introduce a separate chapter on social guarantees, mainly in order to establish the elimination of this injustice when the death of a soldier, his death, compensation guarantees are much smaller than in other force structures. A chapter has been introduced on control and supervision of the rule of law, the precise time of implementation of the law, and some other changes. As for those remarks that are not supported, if the authors of the legislative initiative insist on them, they can be voted on, if necessary, and I will give them all a name and a vote. With this in mind, we ask for the adoption of the law in the second reading and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Does the Minister's office support this position? Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Please note that the committee's second reading and, as a matter of law, has been put to the vote. As a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service, a new edition. Registration number 8047. Please vote. [[11:05:14]] For-300 The law is passed. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts relating to the housing experiment on the basis of the Kyivmiskbud Holding Company is being announced for consideration. Who will report from the committee? The committee processed and proposed a second reading and generally as a law. What warnings are there in the MP’s corps? None. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, in general, as the Act, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation relating to the conduct of an experiment in housing on the basis of the holding company Kyivmiskbud. Registration No. 8386. Please vote. [[11:06:24]] For 285 The law is passed. A draft of the Codex Forest of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter Valerius Ivanovich Samowidski, member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u20	Deeply esteemed Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague. On June 29, the Supreme Council adopted the new edition of the Ukrainian Forest Code as a basis for first reading. In accordance with this decree, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, the committee finalized the draft Law, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the national deputies, and submits it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for second reading. First of all, let me thank the national deputies of Ukraine: Ivancho, Saligina, Hare, School, Rudenka, Yukhnovsky, Shershun, Grzezhev, Shirk, Boyku, Lechchenka, Kuzmuk and many other national deputies for their active position during the discussion of the Law. And also to the working group: the Cabinet of Ministers specialists, the Secretaries of the Committee, the General Legal Office, other experts who took a direct part in the work of the code for second reading. The Forest Code project was widely discussed by the public in the media, groups of almost all agricultural enterprises, and great interest and public resonance should be noted. Everyone, from the ranger to the engineer, from the student to the professor, made a lot of wishes and observations that were handled by an expert group. Leading scientists from the Institute of Ecology, the Carpathian Institute of Environmental Sciences and the productive forces of Ukraine, the National Agrarian University, the Ukrainian Forestry University, the Ukrainian Research Institute of Forestry and the Agrolissomigration of other institutions and organizations participated actively in the drafting of the Forest Code. So what I want to say is thank you very much for the fruitful cooperation of Ukraine's Blue Dove Academy, a member of Ukraine's correspondent Strachinski, professors Kowala, Crinicka, Lakida, Maura, Tkachu, Vakulaka and many others. Support for the draft Forest Code is expressed in addressing the general assemblies of the Forestry Academy of Sciences of Ukraine with the participation of the president of the Forestry Academy of Sciences, a member of the correspondent of Ukraine, Professor Tunice and Professor Tretjak. The working group considered, literally, all the proposals that came to the committee, both from the legislators and from the district councils: Zacarpatska, Volinska, Donetsk, and from a number of ministries and other executive authorities. A total of 607 comments and suggestions, of which nearly 400 are included, have been rejected. Of the total number of comments and suggestions that were rejected, 198 or most of them, 156 refer to the application of terminology not accepted in the code, in particular. Many other issues have been settled. The Final Positions provide for the necessary changes to Ukraine’s earthly code. So please take into account the technical refinement of the comments of the General Legal Office and the Final Regulations, please accept the draft Forest Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Let's vote, shall we? Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u22	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to think that we have considered a few basic questions and realized that the way we are going is the way we are going. I'm talking about amendment 54 of the people's deputy Shershun, which is then taken into account to completely change the rights of the Ukrainian people, the right of the owner to the forests, because it says that forests can be held in public, municipal and private property. I'm stressing private property. Once again, the rights of masters to have their forests, not to let children in, and so forth. Please take a look at the 54 revisions. In the first reading, in the first reading, we did not vote for it. There it was that, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, the right of the owner was exercised by the authorities of the State. Authorities of local self-government within the limits established by the Constitution. That's why 54 amendments have to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u23	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u24	I report that there are forests that can be held in public, municipal, and private property. The absolute number of hectares, the area of forests -- that's going to be state property. Within cities, for example, the town of Sevastopol, the city of Kiev, the green ring is communal property. But if I want to emphasize if we've adopted the Earth Code, which provides land for agricultural purposes, and if a person wants to have a farmer, a farmer, 40-50 hectares to grow agriculture, a small piece of forest -- a hectare, one and a half hectares to be within these arrays, we predict that they also automatically went to the private property of the farmer. Foresters or permanent users can't farm on this tile if it's in the middle of a given array, a land array. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u25	Honourable National MPs, since the National MP has the right to insist on voting for amendments that are included, if the Supreme Council confirms it, it will remain in the text. If the Supreme Council does not support it, it will be removed. Therefore, to support the amendment by Mikola Haritonovich Sherschun, it takes 226 votes at a minimum. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 54 Mikola Haritonovich Shersun on page 12, please vote. [[11:13:19]] For-153 Correction not accepted. She's getting rid of it. By fact, please: “Ukraine” - 5, Communists - 0, National Party - 30, “Our Ukraine” - 14, BUT - 21, SPI - 20, National Block - 22, SDPU (o) - 11, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, “Rebirth” - 3, Party of Industrialists, Ukrainian Entrepreneurs - 7, National Movement - 2, “Reforms and Orders” - 8, “One Ukraine” - 0, non-fractional - 4. So let's move on. Who else insists on repairs? No one insists on repairs? Please, Rudenko, your repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor, the point is that the committee has been supported by the proposal of Mikola Haritonovich Shershun and that there are different points of view in individual deputies, you would have to come to the committee and maybe point out your position. I think that maybe we should vote in general, and the initiator of the amendment might reject or agree with Karmazin's proposals. Shershun points out that this amendment should be because the concept is written down to the fact that, in fact, the Earth Code sets out different ownership rights -- private, state, municipal. And there's a lot of amendments to the new Forest Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u27	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me just say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u28	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! The fact that you did not vote for the amendment, I would like to see the Ukrainian foresters standing in your position. I emphasize the position of deputies because we were solely state owned by forests and utilities. But in this room, I emphasize, in this room, you have adopted the Ukrainian Earth Codex. I read article 56. “Forest land may be held in public, municipal and private property”. And once again, I'm only going for the little bits that could be one and a half acres. See, I've worked my whole life in a forest farm, but if that's the norm, it doesn't contradict all the forest ambushes. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, in order for us to finally remove the colossals here, I think we can put to the vote the return to this amendment. Let's not go back, let's move on. Because, in accordance with the Rules, any amendment that is even counted should be voted on by the MP. In this case, Yuri Carmazin took advantage of this right. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of Amendment 54 in order to bring it into line with the Earth Code. Please vote. [[11:16:49]] For 244 We're back. I now vote in favour of Amendment 54. Please vote. [[11:17:15]] For 266 Correction counted. Let's move on. Yes, who insists on repairs? I can't see. I'm betting on a motion for a second-reading committee to vote as a bill for the Ukrainian Forest Code, registration number 3459-1. Please vote. [[11:17:56]] For 302 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u31	Thank you, all the deputies and you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u32	A draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on participants in the educational process]] [[second reading]] Registration number 5740. Rapporteur of the committee’s Subcommittee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u33	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honourable National MPs, honourable radio listeners, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education discussed at its meeting the draft Law amending the Education Act of Ukraine. [[on participants in the educational process]] Registration number 5740, which was introduced by the National Deputies Wojsz, Vaszuk, Sufrich, and which was prepared for the second reading. But in creating a second-reading working group, in drafting a bill, members of the working group were unable to reach an agreed decision on how to refer to participants in the educational process: Methodist trainers, child trainers, youth sports schools, science teachers and specialists. At the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, he also provided an appropriate explanation and his position on the inadequacy of referring to leading pedagogical workers, including teacher trainers, Methodist trainers, child instructors, youth sports schools from science teachers. For the reason that the adoption of these changes to the Law greatly alters the relationship between work and pay conditions. So we're making it worse for these people to pay for their work. I have a table for December 2005, which is, if we accept these changes, the trainers are going to get 100 dollars less than they're getting right now. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Youth Policy and Sports find it inappropriate to accept these changes. The Committee on Science and Education therefore proposes a decision: to agree with the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to revoke the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 March 2005, Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision 2464, on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Education of Ukraine, Registration 5740. [[on participants in the educational process]] Consider the specified draft law withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of the committee, i.e. the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending the Education Act, registration number 5740/p-1. [[on participants in the educational process]] Please vote. Change the vote. With a motive, please. Carmazine. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, it's not convincing right now. I have great respect for my colleague Rodionov. Well, there we were asking different questions by adopting this bill. We wanted to compare trainers, Methodists, Methodist instructors, children's and youth sports schools to teachers. Funnyly, they don't seem to be pedagogical workers, but they do. It's very important that children are taken care of today. Do we just have to produce people so that they can get into places where they can be deprived of their will or play, and these slot machines, and so on? They need to be busy all the time, and they need to be brought up by those who are bringing them up! So, it's not a pedagogical job, is it not possible to do it through whom? I understand the government, the government doesn't want to make some payments and so on. And now he says he cares more. On the other hand, I've been talking to these trainers and I see, and they say we need to uphold this law. Talk to the people. We can't cancel now. Let him consider the committee as it stands. I don't want us to vote on this ruling right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, if the Supreme Council does not support the committee’s proposal, the committee will be obliged to work on it and prepare for the second reading. That's why I'm voting. Please withdraw from the vote. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u37	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honorable Yuri Anatoliovich, the problem in the bill, is essentially solved. Since under article 29 of the Education Act, education is part of the education system and under article 39 of the Act, sports schools are included in the list of extra-school institutions. With respect to those supplements. I'll say it again. As a result of the adoption of this law, the teaching coaches that are now. They're in the MON system, they're losing 100 bucks. Now they're getting 864 bracelets with all the bracelets, and the teachers who are now in the education system, they're getting 771 bracelets with all the bracelets. So this problem is solved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u38	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u39	. which raises the wages of these teachers who are in the Young Children's Schools of the Ministry of Education. And to reduce the wages of those, they're in the sports system, young people, especially the Paralympic school, the Paralympic reserve school, we just can't. According to the Constitution, we cannot reduce wages. There is therefore no reason to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u40	Honorable National MPs. It's not a discussion. What committee? Yeah, it's from the profile committee. Yes, my dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft. I'd like you on the committee to make a decision, let someone on the committee speak. Abolishing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law on the amendment of the Education Act, registration number 5740/P1. [[on participants in the educational process]] Please vote. [[11:26:02]] For 258. Decision taken. A draft decree on the withdrawal of certain draft laws relating to higher education is being announced for consideration. Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Please, Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u41	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, the Committee on Science and Education requests that a number of laws be removed from consideration that have already been incorporated into legislation recently adopted by the Supreme Council. It's about a draft law for registration number 2599 on higher education in student self-government. The question of the participation of students in the work of academic councils of all levels is in line with the provisions of Law 3323 and provides that up to 10% of the designated bodies are representatives of the learners. Regarding the Higher Education Act, registration number 3401. [[on the appointment of managers]] The law takes into account that the appointment of the head of a higher education institution is announced not later than 1 month before the conclusion of the contract. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on structural units]] Registration number 4515. It's already established that they can be structural units of college and college, but they can't be part of it, as proposed in the project, because there are different sources of funding for these organizations. The draft Law amending article 49 of the Higher Education Act on the teaching of pedagogical workers is being withdrawn. Registration number 5208. The rule proposed in this law limits and aggravates the working conditions of teachers of the first and second levels of accreditation in rural areas compared to the existing standard in Law 3323. The draft Act amending the Higher Education Act on Cultural and Art Institutions is being withdrawn. Registration number 5478. It was talked about who could be the rectors, the heads of these educational institutions. The president rejected the proposed standard, and national artists, deserving art workers, and so on, may be appointed directors, as additional requirements that conflict with the Constitution. The draft Act amending the Higher Education Act is being withdrawn. Registration number 5479 for educational institutions with special conditions. This is about comparisons with military higher education institutions of BSS, tax, and customs institutions of higher education. Appropriate standards are provided for in Law 3323 and are in line with appropriate ministries and offices. The draft Act amending the Higher Education Act concerning the head of the educational institution is being withdrawn. Registration number 5497.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u42	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u43	An analysis of the demographic situation in Ukraine indicates that there is a negative population growth in Ukraine, so the proposal of the authors to increase the number of admissions to higher education institutions is not worthwhile. This amount of abjects is not reproduced. The draft Act amending certain laws on educational and scholarship levels is being withdrawn at the expense of government or local budgets. Registration number 5498. This is about the exchange of master’s degrees, since the cost of such exchange is more than 1.7 billion dollars for new diplomas. But in the future, the “specialist” level of education will not be applied, as Ukraine signed the Bologna Declaration last year. The draft law amending the Higher Education Act is being withdrawn. Registration number 5630 for the participation of higher education institutions in non-state pensions. This law is not adopted, as it is suggested by the project’s authors, that money from the state budget cannot be transferred to nonstate funds. This is contrary to a number of provisions of current legislation. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the self-governance of students and postgraduate students and their participation in higher education is being withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u44	How long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u45	One more minute. Registration number 6352. I've already talked about it in the previous law. The draft law amending the Higher Education Act on the Equality of Rights of Graduates is being withdrawn. Registration number 7075. It's about taking the exam out of the Ukrainian language, it's a national language that teaches in higher education institutions, and it's got to be an entrance exam, and it's got to have some level of knowledge in the Ukrainian language. Finally, the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on school pay is being withdrawn. Registration number 7672. The standard of pay for education remains in the old version of Law 3323, with the proposal of the President of Ukraine, and remains the constant standard of pay throughout the entire course of the student's education. The committee requests approval of this decision by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of some of the bills relating to higher education. Registration No. 8701. Please vote. [[11:33:06]] For 262 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Removement of Certain Bills has been announced for consideration. Report by the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, this is where the papers are handed out, and if anyone has a warning, it's a short vote, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legal Policy has considered thirteen bills, you have them on your hands, you have a list of these issues, and we propose to remove them because many of them conflict with the Constitution, some of them are already regulated by the laws that were before our session. And some of the questions, let's say, about the judiciary, about the status of judges, are going to be considered in part in Bill No. 8272, and this bill will be put to the Supreme Council. That is, we think that even when the bill is removed, the interests of the drafters of the bill will not be undermined, but most importantly, the issues that are. The bill regulates certain legal relations, they will, sooner or later, be regulated by existing legislation. There are a number of issues related to changes to the Ukrainian Codex of Lordship. We are now working on the committee to harmonize the Ukrainian Code of Masters with the Civil Code. And I think we're going to make these complex changes. So there's a proposal for draft Decree No. 9014 to vote and dismantle the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain bills, registration number 9014, is being voted on. Please vote. [[11:35:32]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to focus. If there's a warning about any other bill, and you think it has to be worked out, we'll delete it. So I'm proposing this next approach right now. Who's in charge of going back to project review? Registration number 9014. Please vote. [[11:36:14]] For 281 We're back to the debate. We now have the right to put to the vote a motion for a committee to withdraw some of the bills that are set out in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 9014. Please vote. [[11:36:46]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0315, is being announced for consideration. Reporter for the duties of Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivan Jakovič Sahan. Get ready from the committee. Please, Ivan Jacobovich. Vitaly Hometic, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement is presented for your consideration. The project lasted more than four years. The main objective of the project is to introduce a qualitatively new level in the organisation of targeted support for the poorest by providing a comprehensive approach to providing social assistance to disabled people, single citizens and multi-child families, the elderly and other least protected categories of citizens. The project will provide an opportunity to reform the social assistance system, primarily its urban and district links, where citizens are directly admitted. In doing so, it is envisaged to develop and implement modern standards in public service, citizen reception, new integrated software for the purpose of all types of social assistance on a single application, to bring them to the proper position of local administrations, and to adapt them to the reception of citizens of all categories, including persons with disabilities. The implementation of the project will have the following positive results: the first is a significant reduction in poverty by increasing support for socially vulnerable groups. The second positive result is the increased targeting of aid through the determination of the right to help, based on specific circumstances that have arisen in a particular family and its actual property status. And the third result will be the effective management of social assistance reform. In addition, the district and city offices of the Buddha’s social protection agencies. New technologies have been introduced to service citizens according to the principle of a single window that will make it easier to get citizens to obtain them and will deprive them of the need for a long time to look for, to gather information on this subject. The State budget figures for 2006 provide 240 million for this purpose. In accepting the budget, the money, or Supreme Council, has already earmarked financial expenses for these purposes. A great feature of the project is its implementation through the State Treasury of Ukraine, unlike those projects previously implemented. The project is expected to be implemented within two and a half years. At the same time, 95 percent of the budget will be devoted to the purchase of goods and services and local and regional units of the Minpraci system. The bill will be audited by the project. This is stipulated in the agreement. I strongly ask the people's deputies to keep this agreement, because this is the first serious financial opportunity to solve the problems of the labour administrations and the social protection of the grass-roots networks that directly admit citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u50	Yes, thank you. There is a question. Three minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Sergey Droguncs, please ask me a question. Microphone Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u51	Thank you very much. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me what share of the loan will be given to those who lend and what portion of the loan will still be in the ministry's hands for the purposes of this agreement. And are there any additional structures within the Ministry or outside the Ministry that will manage these loans? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u52	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, I must point out that virtually no provision is made for the World Bank’s experts. Consultants will use about one thousand of the resources that are available for these purposes. As far as the Ministry is concerned, the Ministry will virtually have nothing to do with this, because the main objective is to prepare and translate into new conditions the work of direct grass-roots networks, i.e. labour administrations and social protection in areas and cities where the reception of citizens is carried out directly. There's a lot of people who've been in these establishments who know that for decades they haven't put a penny there, so it goes directly to the bottom. [[They are in most cases in neglected condition: there is no technology required]] As far as structural units are concerned, the Ministry does not create, there is a group of experts that will provide support for this project. It's a small number, and these are the professionals of Ukrainian citizens who are now involved in this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u53	Yes, Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u54	Lukyanenko. Please pass the word to Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u55	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u56	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Mr. Secretary, we all know you as a very experienced expert, but right now you're just deceiving national MPs, you're lying to the people of Ukraine when you answer the questions of Sergio Ivanovich Doroguntsov. The World Bank has already received funds from this loan amounting to 0.25%, the first. Second, you said that all the costs go to the bottom structures. Look at Appendix 1 and you'll see that 77 million goes to the central apparatus and only 9.9 million go to the bottom structures that you're so worried about. In addition, you agreed that this loan would reduce poverty in Ukraine is a conscious lie. I demand that you tell the people's deputies the truth, and that is why we will now abstain from voting because of your report on this ratification bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u57	Well, actually, I have to answer this challenge because first of all, the cost of the percentage that Ukraine has to pay for using this loan is $73,000 for 2.5 years. So four and a half percent of the bet is more than that. Well, let's say, the acceptable terms for lending, in fact, there's no such thing as. The use of funds that you say will be used in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is absolutely wrong, because it's about buying technology, hardware that's going to be centralized, and it's going to be focused exclusively on upgrading the units below. As for the immediate issue of poverty reduction. Today we are talking about serving some 18 million citizens through the direct provision of various forms of assistance. 18 million, I emphasize, about 4 million families. Each family today turns to a specific department of the ministry in the grassroots chain, and it provides help that is often beyond verification. They're able to get 3-4s at the same time. Thus, the introduction of the system will allow these things to be rationalized, to channel these costs to the poorest, not to those receiving help today. The analysis shows that unfortunately today, a large part of the country's assistance is not receiving the poorest categories of citizens. Thus, the introduction and implementation of this project will solve these issues. As for the faction position, I would like to take into account what Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, who was looking at this issue directly, supported this proposal, and the committee was clearly committed to supporting this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u58	Thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u59	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to Improve the Social Assistance System. Improving the effectiveness of the social assistance system by increasing its targeting is not possible with the existing material and technical provision of local labour centres and social protection centres as well as the social sphere as a whole. Of course, all of these issues need to be addressed primarily by budgetary means, namely, the State Budget. But we have calculated that if we wait only for Ukraine's budget and compare funding with last year, it takes 15 years to make a complete reform of the social assistance system. The adoption of this agreement will ensure the creation of the necessary level of material and technical security, i.e. the upgrading of the computer and office equipment park, the introduction of new technology for the reception of citizens, and will contribute to an average increase of 30 per cent of the overall productivity of the specialists involved in the social assistance process. We have considered this bill carefully. If. I'll also remind you, the cost, the total amount of this loan is 99.4 million dollars, dollars, I'm sorry. The terms of the loan, the general terms and conditions are the base bet "li boron" plus the total difference in "li boron". So the conditions are similar to those of the loans we've accepted on other ratifications. In general, more than $50 million, and exactly 50 million 117, are technical equipment for social work centres. That is, they are printers, computer equipment, telephones, and so forth. 27 million are repairs at work and social protection offices. In order to make it easier for the authorities to accept citizens, it is primarily for people with disabilities, basic infrastructure repairs, and other things. These funds will be used to track and track the Accounts Chamber. In general, this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u60	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u61	Two and a half years old. The closing date for the loan is December 31st, 2008. The loan is granted within 20 years. The first five years of the premium period, during which the principal amount of the debt is not paid. In view of what has been said and the fact that this issue has been under way for several years now, and I would like to remind you that the government of Yanukovich has had a call to the World Bank for reconstruction and development for this purpose. The committee decided to recommend that the bill be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u62	Dear national MPs, so shall we be determined by vote? No objections? I won't. Please, Michael Melniczuk's microphone. Will you be a full performance, Mikhail Vasilovich? Well, a microphone, please. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u63	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, John Yakovic, we are witnessing that Ukraine already has a great deal of credit. Of course, everything on Parliament's rostrum seems to be so normal. We're trying to do everything for the Ukrainian people. Once again, for 20 years, our children are getting credit, and we're taking credit again. I remember in this room in 2003 we also discussed, the Minister, ex-Papierev proposed to us and we certainly supported it with regard to loans in relation to the development of pension reform in Ukraine. And we don't know where these funds were distributed, and whether they worked for Ukraine, and what the fate of these loans were. So the faction will support, if it's for the people and it's social projects, you know, socialists don't stay away, but they do need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u64	Honorable National MPs. Carmazine's microphone, please. Carmazine's in. I don't know what you're talking
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u65	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Block of Carmazin”. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of the project is $101.8 million, not 99.4, as we were told. I'd like to emphasize that. Just so we're properly informed - once. The other one. I'd like all of us to take a look at it now. On the one hand, we have people in line, on the other hand, there are people who don't have normal conditions for doing these functions, and on the other hand, let's look at how much we can borrow and what we don't take them into, we take absolutely everything. I'd like to hear from the government the concept of whether we're going to be begging all the time whether there's going to be any concept of making money, investing it and owning it normally, effectively, not what.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! Come on, it's written down, no, it's refused. The storm, please, has been recorded. Let's vote, please. The miner, recorded, will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u67	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] No doubt what they give us is very good, but it is important to remember that every penny will have to be given. Now let's see what they give us money for. They just said: 55 percent goes to computer equipment, technology, and so on. I would like to tell you that by 2025, even plastics would not be left. This will be used and no one needs it. First of all, they're going to get old morally, and for that, they're going to have to give up the money. For those repairs that would be done that kind of people would be comfortable to accept, they would long ago need capital repairs. There is a question: in 2025, I am convinced that there will be no MP sitting in this session room right now, none! And people will give money to others. So I don't think we can vote for this ratification today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u68	Thank you. Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u69	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Deputies! In connection with this loan, public hearings and discussions were held in the Ministry of Labour and in the regions, particularly in my constituency on this project loan, the determined funds for the specific renewal of the social protection offices. And I think that's what's going on in every area, and the projects are already there. Yes, we can talk about something that will ever come to pass. Of course there will be. But now neither in the past nor in this year, for these purposes, we have not foreseen any funds. Social programs have not yet been loaned. Of course, we may not vote in favour of ratification, but in doing so we will undermine the working conditions of workers who work in poor conditions and our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u70	Hara, please, then Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, which I lead, has studied this issue very carefully. We and the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour have held a round table, where we have discussed in great detail all the nuances of the matter. We have an experiment in 4 areas of Ukraine, an experiment shows that today's social benefits have been reduced by tens of times, a time when a poor person needs an average of three days to produce benefits today, in accordance with a single window experiment, on this agreement for only 20 minutes. The main objective of the project is to introduce Ukraine as a new level in providing targeted support to the poorest through an integrated approach. This is one of the few options when money goes to the benefit of Ukraine, for the benefit of the people. I therefore request all members of the people to support the ratification of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u72	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleagues! Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Usually, this institution controls the implementation of the project and gets all the information that, to some extent or possibly absolutely, has internal state loads and loads. That's the first one. The other one. It's not by chance that both committees that have concluded and the Scientific and Expert Authority have indicated that it can be supported, and we believe that it can be supported, provided additional information is provided. And this additional information that's added to the deal, we didn't get it: not every deputy, but at least the factions and the committees. So, for example, I have the impression that there is a "partner" here, and we need to look at this completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Ivan Jakovitch Sakhan and please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the following. That most of you today, directly in areas and cities, receive people and see what conditions work management and social protection are in. Because of this, I think most of you should objectively approach what they require to be resolved. The second thing I'd like to point out. Indeed, this is being done for mankind today. Not for those who work in the office, but for those who come: for a disabled person who can't get up and get into the office, for those people who collect help for three or four weeks by spending on these things. It is only about improving the service of people. As for Yuri Petrovich, the evidence or additional information, it's given to the committees that discussed these issues and we've fully provided and satisfied the people. And I'm addressing Mikhail Vasilovich Gladys. You, like no one else, were the district manager and you know how serious this is for the region. So I would like to approach objectively. If we're going to use the financial resources that are currently budgeted, it's going to take 15 years to bring the system into more or less human condition. Fifteen years from now, by the time we get there, to modernize what we did first will be neglected. I would ask for convincing support and an opportunity to implement this project for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get out of this, because when that power, or any other force present in the Supreme Council in power, is voted in favour of everyone without exception for the documents proposed for ratification. If they don't, they're starting to find some kind of fixtures right now. In this case, the Cabinet of Ministers assumes responsibility. In this case, the government is responsible. We're going to evaluate how the funds are used. We just need, I think, to support at this point, the more we respect the ministry and the minister. The discussion is over. That's why I'm voting on a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the loan agreement for a project to improve the social assistance system between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0315. Please vote. [[12:00:50]] For 266 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u77	We're continuing meetings, Your Honor. Let's move on to the section of questions by a reduced procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act is under consideration. [[on payment of services]] Registration number 8010. Reported by national deputy Zizko Sergey Andriyovich. Prepare Reznik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u78	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For a long time, housing and utilities have accumulated problems related to threats to the functioning of this vital sphere. We can point out among them both the crisis of payments for services and consumer debt problems, and the uptake of the technological crisis caused by the weariness of the core funds, and the significant corruption of this area, and the unsatisfactory quality of housing services. The bill I have submitted is aimed at improving current legislation in order to protect the rights of consumers of residential services. Its aim is to regulate the relations between housing providers and their consumers. The bill includes two positions. The first is proposed in the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act to determine that consumers should be paid only for housing and utility services. The current practice of recalculating unpaid services at the end of the year is not effective. Massive is the phenomenon where some kind of service, such as hot water, is not provided for several months, and the calculation of payments to consumers is either not done at all or only partially done. And the mechanism of this calculation itself is opaque. The second proposal of the bill foresees that the heating fee is paid to consumers only during the period of their actual implementation. The current practice of paying when the annual amount of heating is paid on a monthly basis is not justified by the fact that in most cases actual heating is done over a period that is slightly less than the fixed duration of the heating season, and so consumers are actually overpaying money for unsupplied services. Considering that the quality of heating services is also not satisfactory, introducing such a standard into the law will reduce the social tension involved. By the way, the issue of housing and utility tariffs also needs a strong intervention by public authorities. Houses equipped with counters pay for residential services are smaller than those in adjacent apartments where there are no counters. This situation needs to be changed. The adoption of the bill will not require additional spending from the State Budget. Please support the proposal of a profile committee on adoption as the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on payment of services]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. No, I'm sorry, the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Liaison, Resnik Igor Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee has considered the Bill of the People's Deputy Gizko, No. 8010, amending and supplementing the Law on Housing and Communal Services. [[on the payment of housing and utility services]] To date, there is still a situation where heating charges are paid throughout the year and are actually carried out for 6-7 months. Consequently, this delay in the start of heating has no effect on the accrued fee. This bill allows consumers to make calculations for the actual housing and utility services provided. The Committee proposes that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u81	Thank you. This is an operational report. Shall we vote? No, there's no agreement between the Odessyths. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u82	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question. Is this the question of the highest policy of the state today? The question of how and where do the people who provide services live? This morning, we were told many times about what was happening in Alcevsk. And I want all the countries to know, what's going on in Alcevsk? Today, 5,000 people from all over Ukraine are working in Alchevsk. It is planned to spend up to 100 million dollars, more than 30 million dollars already spent. And now I want you to think about it: 24% of Alcev's controlled metallurgical combination was purchased for 5.5 million dollars. I repeat: 5.5 million dollars, all of it. Now, ISD is the Industrial Union of Donbas, the owners: Mr. Taruta, Hayduk and the company, $500 million. This is a year's balance sheet. Two combinations: Alcheva Metallurgical and Alcevic Coxochemical -- the whole apartment was handed over to the city. The city budget is 2 million dollars. So let's find out: what are the reasons for what happened in Alchevsk? And what's President Yushchenk's fault, who's gonna end up here? Could it be the fault of those deputies who have allowed such privatization and who may be guilty there?? And to this day, they can't find them, city council deputies. No budget, no budget approved. People, be ashamed! Two consecutive terms are headed by a man who represents and heads the Party of Regions in this city. 10,000 children now Yushchenko has provided transportation to Crimea, Zaporzik region, to another area. And you're saying there's something here? Honorable, and ISD, with its five - hundred - million - a - year income, was to support not only alcheva buildings but all Ukraine’s dates. But there are also several of these huge cities that exist. And that's not done. So let's be honest with these questions. And they show profitability and that's 0.4 percent. That's the truth about Alcevsky. Now by this Law. Isn't it clear that now the pay has only to be paid for housing services? And I support the People's Deputy Zizko. That's right. Those who say they don't need to be supported are totally wrong. And it's only during the period of actual realization that we need the heat of the brother. How many of these people can be jerked off? We need to increase the demands on those who provide services. And in the end, our Odessa experiments, which were the DESAs of Bodelain and those who were just in front of me in the rostrum, have led to what are called DEZs, which is not enough for the doormen, the plumbers, the heat technicians, and so on. And, thank God, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u83	Yuri Anatolyevich, three minutes on the law, three seconds. It was a record in your performance. Anyone else who signed up insists? Then we'll go for it. Please, Levcun, next is Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u84	Vladimir Levcun, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! The problem that the author of this bill is trying to solve is extremely relevant for Ukraine today. The reality is that the vast majority of the population pay much more for housing services than they actually get these services by quantity and quality. For example, since the vast majority of apartments are not equipped with heat - power counters, the structures that provide these services, using the existing system, pay for the entire period, even when the heating is not done, and not only in the summer, but also in the winter. The pay for heating is virtually independent of what temperature is provided in the payer’s apartment. Therefore, the proposed change is that the heating fee is paid only to consumers during the period of its actual implementation, solving only partially existing problems, since it does not take into account the quality of the service provided. In our view, if the temperature in the consumer’s apartment is much lower than zero, the tariff should be different and take into account the quality of the service received. If the temperature in the system exceeds the standard, the consumer should also pay for the service, taking into account its quality. The serious problems that need to be changed to the Housing and Utilities Act also exist in payment for maintenance of buildings and buildings and adjuvant areas, which are determined by the capitality of the equipment and the well-being level, and also does not take into account the quantity and quality of services that the population receives. Traveling in a weary state, roofs flow, and payments are to be made according to the law in its entirety. It's not normal. There are other similar inadequacies, and in this they simply allow the population to be robbed by means of the collection of funds for virtually unserviced. And so the Yulia Block of Timoshenko proposes to send the proposed bill for re-reading for basic comprehensive work taking into account the stated comments with a view to ensuring that the population of Ukraine is provided with quality housing services at prices that are adequate for quantity and quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u85	Mikola Sherschun, please. Prepare Novak Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u86	Mikola Shershun, “Litvina National Block”. Honorable National MPs, Your Honor Chairman. Beyond all doubts, the Lithuanian People's Block supports the idea of improving current legislation to protect the interests of consumers of residential services. However, in this case, in our view, attention should be paid to the warnings made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The point is that the proposals put forward in the bill that has been proposed so far have already been partially incorporated into the current Housing and Utilities Act. That is, in articles 19, 20, 26. At the same time, the bill is of a very relevant nature, so my colleagues in the People's bloc of Lithuania are proposing to support it and at the same time make it more clear and hard to control the already existing regulatory field on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u87	Please, Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u88	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Novak, Hmelnickin Dear colleagues, what is being done today with the payment of municipal services in the country is not part of common sense. The pay for utilities is accounted for by someone who comes to mind, and in different regions, but everywhere, I emphasize, everywhere, not for the benefit of the consumer. The bill provides for clarification that the payment should be paid to consumers exclusively for housing and utility services, and that the heating fee should be paid only for the period of actual heating. That's all right. This does not even need to be confirmed by law. The logic itself suggests that the setting up of a consumer account, the placing of a consumer account on payment, should take place solely for the services consumed. What seems to be incomprehensible? That's how much I've spent, that's how much I've paid. But it can only be a naive consumer, because for some in our country, utilities have become, not a service area, but a way of collecting taxes from the underprivileged population. The water hasn't been served in weeks, but it pays as a full supply, it's cold in the apartment, but it's full pay. There's no hot water in the living room, there's no running water -- pay full, no matter what Kabina's Order says the standards should be: full pay goes for hot water when it's not less than 50 degrees. Does the consumer know his rights? Why? The less he knows his rights, the better for JECQ. That is what today’s public policy on price regulation in the communal sphere is all about. So it's no wonder that we get a lot of complaints from people on the spot about paying for the utility services that are being done with the prices. And that's not all. The Prime Minister states that prices for municipal services will not rise, his subordinate minister states in three days that the Ministry has already prepared drafts for higher prices for municipal services. Dear government officials! At least learn to listen to each other, then you may have something to say to others. We, as members of the Communist faction of the Supreme Council, will consistently defend the rights of workers, and we will vote in favour of this project in the first reading. To some extent, he will promote the protection of consumer rights, and he will oblige those who produce utilities, display fair accounts, to do so. But I repeat that only on the first reading, because the project needs substantial work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u89	From the motive of the vote, Matvienkov, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u90	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The Socialist Party faction will support this bill, but I can say one thing, whether we can clearly define to date the system of accounting for the services actually received. The existence of counters, the basement system that we have so far, and the public service system in general, is a matter of great concern. Would it not be possible that we would simply push today to increase the standards and tariffs for utilities? Because unfortunately, there has recently been a clear system and practice, for water running through the streets, for water running through the basements, all these costs are just being translated into the last unit, into the consumer. If that is not the case, we are, to date, practically not obliged to pay for the services we have not received. However, we are trying to establish this system in a legislative way. There is no clear programme that could bring the public sector into the reform system today. In 15 years, nothing has been done in this direction, so that's where we need to think today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u91	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u92	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Of course, we've long gone into market relations and anachronisms from the Soviet system of colgos called the JEKs use this system by paying consumers for unsurpassed services. Thus, the bill proposed by Sergey Žizkom is quite appropriate. The other thing is that without a proper program to install heat, water, and other services that consumers consume, it simply will not work. That's why the approach itself, it's the right one, in the first reading, the bill is the right one to support, but it has to be backed up by appropriate housing reform programmes and appropriate accounting programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u93	Thus, the motivations had been completed, and all those who had signed up spoke. Bondarenko's not on the list. Yes, Your Honor, what is the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers? I repeat, I repeat, don't be lazy to pick up your hard place to come up and sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u94	Yes, it's very good that you have it. We need to sign up. You can have three legs, even lift up, you have to sign up. Yes, please. Warm up, maybe they're a little frozen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u95	You need to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u96	I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing Services Act, 8010. Please vote. [[12:54:40]] For 211 Please, who's to go back to voting? Please vote. [[12:55:02]] For 236 He's back. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Housing and Utilities. [[on payment of services]] Registration No. 8010. Please vote. [[12:55:32]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, once again, I emphasize that all those who signed up, who did not bow down, had the opportunity to speak out of motives. Because there may be a sea for those of us who want it, please write it down. Then, when it's written down, you'll speak. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs is under consideration. [[on the free burial of persons with disabilities]] Registration No. 8270. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovitch will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, such behavior by the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, who insults the deputies, cries out for someone to lift their feet and so forth, shows that they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u98	Volodymyr Dmitrovich, you have been given the opportunity to speak under the Law, speak according to the Law. And when the time is right, say what you want. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u99	So I wanted to make a statement from that bill that had just been considered and had such a right, including the procedure. But once again, this is not the first time that I have noticed the selectivity of the activities of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, who gives no consideration to each other. I had a perfectly normal proposal and I wanted to say that today in Kiev, in other cities in Ukraine, besides what counters stand, there is another small feature of the system that says that the temperature regime never lasts anywhere. And this dictatorship continues with bodies that provide heat and energy. So I propose on the second reading that this part of the bill should be further elaborated. And I don't think that was an offer you shouldn't have taken into account. In Kiev, for example, 17 percent are underheated. At the same time, cyanide uses 20 percent more energy, 25 percent more gas to prevent the temperature deficit that is already being charged. That's why it's before that law. And now to the one I'm proposing, it's very short. The point is that we have legislation on funeral activity today. It defines the State as taking responsibility for the burial of those citizens of Ukraine who are involved in hostilities. Unfortunately, it has happened that the authorities that provide this burial do not realize that no person with disabilities of war can but be a part of the war, and ask the question in this way, if they are a part of the fighting, for him is a free burial, if they are a war invalid, for him there is no. We need to run to the military, take help that the disabled are at the same time involved in the fighting, and then we'll get rid of the issue. I want to introduce two words into the law that free burial is subject to citizens who are involved in hostilities and with disabilities of war. [[It's written.]] This should be added to two words that will remove the problem for relatives of those who have died, who are on the run today, seeking this help. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u100	From the committee, we have a butcher named Igor Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing has considered a draft amendment to the Funeral and Funeral Affairs Act No. 8270. The Committee considers that the proposed amendments to article 14 of the Burying Act proposed by the author would be useful, which legislate the rule on the free burial of persons with disabilities of war from local budgets and aim at eliminating the unnecessary procedure for the treatment of persons with disabilities of war or from relatives to military service reports to participants in hostilities. The Committee took into account the views of the author of the bill, as well as the conclusions of the Ministry of Construction and Architecture, the housing and utility industry that its implementation did not require additional financial and other material costs, since it provided for, above all, a change in the procedure for obtaining benefits for persons with disabilities of war. In view of the above, as well as the support for the draft bill of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The Committee proposes that the draft law amending number 8270 be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u102	Thank you. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u103	Vote. I'll bet. Melniczuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u104	All right, let's bury soon. Let's not do it, okay? National Deputy of Ukraine Melniczuk, Cherniewec Region I'd like to, my dear colleague, ask you to give me a chance, I've checked in in in the morning and I've been up at 12 o'clock in the evening with my colleague here at the Supreme Council. I'd like to say about that. Now we're going to vote again, and this is a bill the faction has decided to support. But what if we had an analysis, and yet how is this rule of law being implemented? Is it being done? Because there were about 10 citizens in the Chernobyl area who told me that for two years my husband had been buried. So far, no money has been recovered. He sends the army to the local council, the local council to the military. And you can't find the extreme for that. I'd like the profile committee to deal with this in some way, so that the MPs get the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u105	Yes, we'll vote. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs. [[on the free burial of persons with disabilities]] Registration number 8270. [[13:01:46]] For 263 Dear colleagues, as far as there is one more faithful, two words and no objections to anyone, no one denies that they should be made a law as a whole? No, it's not. Then I consider the adoption as a whole of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs, registration number 8270. Please vote. [[13:02:24]] For-286 The law is passed. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. [[on the humaneization of punishments]] Registration number 6234. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich reports. None. Please be the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Marcus María Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u106	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian People's Deputies on Onopenkom and Pecklusenkom of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the humaneization of the execution of sentences]] The bill is intended to supplement article 116 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code with a new part 6 as well as article 151 with a new part 7 aimed at allowing convicted persons to be deprived of the right of medical examination to identify signs of torture and other unlawful acts affecting their health in medical institutions not subject to criminal enforcement or other law enforcement agencies in Ukraine and to determine the order of granting pardons to those sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty. Considering that the amendment to article 151 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code would allow the legislative order for the pardon of persons sentenced to permanent deprivation of their liberty, since it is now governed only by a sub-legislative act on the order of pardon, approved by Presidential Decree No 588/2000 of 12 April 2000, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading of the draft bill, that it should be accepted on the basis of the comments made by the Committee, namely: the comments noted refer to proposals for amendments to article 116 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. The committee expressed concerns about the threats that might arise when convicts were sent to the health authorities of the Ministry of Health, namely, the dangers to the environment, the escape of convicts from the medical office, the possibility of spreading infectious diseases among the population. Also, the cost of transportation, maintenance, and protection of convicted persons outside the institution is not taken into account. The main scientific and expert management has found that the draft can be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the comments noted, and can be taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u107	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, who insists on signing up? Gardener's handing out Shibka, please, Vitaly. Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I think that this bill is right, even if it is in accordance with the intentions of the democratic state. Every humane attitude, even to the wicked, toward those who have made concessions and for today repent. That is the purpose of the democratic state. So of course this is the way we're going, somehow, we're making our legislation better on this point. It is appropriate. But at the same time, there are some things that we should consider when discussing and adopting a bill. What's this about? Well, the point is that there's probably going to have to be some extra funds here that the budgets have to provide for. The point is that if someone should have, be brought to a medical institution, and it says here that this medical facility is not closed, and it belongs to the Ministry of Health, then you know that a person with all kinds of intentions needs adequate security. And it's me, you know how to add a lot of trouble. However, this medical facility should be equipped according to the person who is being directed there. And this is also going to have to have an appropriate state to provide it. That's the first one. And the second question is that of those who can be released in 20 years who have a life sentence. Why 20, we don't know one time from the report. Why not 15, why not 25, or other motives? Again, the question of how the budget will react is whether social services will be appropriate? If a person has been in prison for 20 years, he has been released for some rehabilitation. And to do that, you have to have a whole institution of psychologists, that is, these people have to deal substantively with those who have been released. So I think we can adopt this bill in the first reading, but in furtherance, we have to anticipate both budgetary commitments in this regard, and clarifying some positions, for example, why 20, not other years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u109	Yeah, we'll figure it out. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (for the humanization of punishments, registration number 6234. Please vote. [[13:08:59]] For 227 A decision has been made. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7259, is under consideration. [[on the responsibility for illegal arms]] Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Marcus Maria Andriyovna
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u110	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! World society has been recognized as one of the major threats to mankind at present. In turn, the main weapon of terrorism is firearms, ammunition, explosives, and explosive devices. Therefore, the issue of combating their illicit circulation, carrying, storing, purchasing, marketing, manufacturing, repair, transfer, and so on becomes extremely relevant. The responsibility for these actions is provided for in article 263 of the current Criminal Code. In doing so, the sanctioning of part one of this article provides for the deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years. Thus, according to article 12 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the crime described is not serious. However, in 1993, changes to article 222 of the Criminal Code of 1960, which provided for responsibility for similar crimes and terms of imprisonment, were increased to seven years. When the new Criminal Code was adopted, the punishment was softened, although there was absolutely no argument. On the contrary, crime, including organized crime, has not diminished. The fact that the crime in question does not refer to serious crimes entails the impossibility of carrying out with regard to suspects suspected of deep-lawed relevant crimes of all necessary operational and search measures, which the Ukrainian Act on Operational and Search Activities allows only in the case of committing or preparing serious crimes. To this end, a national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Musik Volodymyr Romanović, and I were drafted to remedy the shortcomings of the bill. The project is generally in line with the protocol against the illicit manufacture and circulation of firearms, its components and components, as well as its ammunition, which complements the United Nations Convention against Organized Crime of 31 May 2001 and the European Convention for the Control of the Purchase and Storage of Firearms by Private Persons. Changes to articles in the general section of the Criminal Code of Ukraine are due to the uncertainty of the concept of “proprietary” and “containment of property”. The beneficial crimes in article 59 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code are in conflict with the provisions of article 59 of the Criminal Code on the possibility of confiscation of property only for serious and particularly serious crimes of benefit, as well as with the provisions of articles of a particular part of the Criminal Code, in which the penalty is imposed for committing crimes that are not serious and particularly serious. A committee on law enforcement dealt with the bill. He considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis for taking into account the suggestions made before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u111	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, Melniczuk Mikhailo. Behind him, Shershun. Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u112	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, I will certainly make a little departure from this bill and I want to say, and I'm just asking my colleagues that there's a chairman in this room and he has the right to make a comment to the MP and to give or not to give the floor. I wouldn't want anyone in the room to be in charge of the MP's mind, whether he's going to speak or not, or whether anyone should be allowed to ask. Now for the bill. The Socialist Party faction will support this bill, but it is certain that life for today is quite different. I don't think there's any law on this, which, we'll talk about, prohibits the illicit circulation of weapons, but the more we adopt laws, the more weapons appear. And what I want to tell you is that sometimes people who go in pursuit are involved in this or not. I'd like to give you an example today of the region of Czernovec, the Zastavan region, the village of Khrestyk. The boy who had, we're going to say, indiscreetly take action against a local rich man who didn't serve in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and had nothing to do with the weapons at all, and then the militia finds a gun in his car. There's not much left to find at home. He didn't even have a gun in his hand. So what I'd like to say is that this weapon was not registered anywhere, and where it came from, it's necessary to give an answer to the local black police, because right now the guy's going under the charge that he, we're going to talk, he's got a gun. Besides, would you please go into any market we have in the markets? You want some? Do you want to buy any weapons? Please, you just have the money and come on, you can buy, you can do anything you want. So on this point, if we even strengthen the operation of the law until the relevant services, the Security Service, the UBOP, the militia and all the other structures that have to fight are working on this issue, we certainly will not refer to the state system on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u113	Mikola Shershun, please prepare Vladimir Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u114	Mikola Shershun, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Among other living things, some people are particularly sensitive to compassion, others to profit. After all, the more a person has, the more he wants to eat. As one great classic put it, there is no power on earth to keep a person from committing a crime of gain in excess of 300 percent. What about when it comes to much more profitable matters, such as drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings and their organs, arms trafficking, and drug trafficking? So the people's deputies of the People's Block of Lithuania are interested in the fact that today the state can oppose illegal arms circulation in Ukraine. And then another question: How can we prevent these phenomena from being reflected in Ukraine's image? Please refer to the violent scandal surrounding the Ukrainian Rings and medium-act missiles, which were sold to Iraq in particular. This raises another question: How is it that under such conditions in our country does not become an object of intrigue aimed at ousting it from the arms market, which is now a powerful legitimate source of replenishment of our State budget? Therefore, members of the People’s Block of Lithuania consider it appropriate to return to the issue of increased control and responsibility for the illicit circulation of weapons, ammunition, explosives and devices. The great advantage of this, although somewhat, I would say that the late bill also contains a proposal to bring Ukraine's criminal legislation closer to European standards in the area of confiscation and special confiscation as different types of punishment. To correct how unattractive this is in the field of arms trade, my colleagues in the Lithuanian People's Block consider it appropriate to support the Bill number 7259. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u115	Thank you, please, Vladimir Petrenko, a faction of Communists, to prepare Prowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u116	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable radiotelephones! The lack of strict legislative measures to strengthen accountability for the illicit trafficking and storage of weapons and ammunition has been a source of distress for Ukrainian citizens. You and I are witnesses when the media, especially on television, often reveal the discovery of whole arsenals of weapons and ammunition and the terrible consequences of their use. Therefore, the law is very necessary, very timely, and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the draft of the current law amending the Ukrainian Law to strengthen responsibility for the illicit trafficking of arms and ammunition. It is time to put strict order in this difficult and formidable issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u117	Thank you, please, Mikola Porovski, “Rebirth”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u118	Mikola Porovski, faction of the political party Rebirth. Dear fellow MPs! We are invited by the developers to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on increasing the responsibility for the illicit arms circulation for the absence of the Arms Act in Ukraine. That is to say, the developers are asked to strengthen criminal responsibility, the responsibility of persons for the absence of a major bill, which has been reviewed repeatedly in the Supreme Council, which regulates, and the rules governing the circulation of weapons and ammunition in Ukraine. Let me draw your attention to the fact that existing legislation is based on the Criminal Procedure Code, which was adopted on December 28, 1960. I note that the Code of Administrative Offences was adopted by the Supreme Council on December 7, 1984, and these legal and regulatory instruments adopted in a completely different state, in completely different political and legal norms, under another Constitution, we are invited to make additions. At the same time, the changes noted do not completely regulate other weapons - storage responsibilities. Let's say, in a cold weapon, there's a basic rule here that any peasant today who has a certain thickness and length than a farm to process a barrel can be called upon by these changes to the Law to be held accountable by a partial militiaman and to make a corresponding act. At that time, metallic weapons, which have enormous power, striking power at short distances, appeared far stronger than firearms. Shockers, shock devices, and no responsibility for them. But the Law offers us an innovation – a party of weapons. We have 126 parties in Ukraine, but we have another one according to the rules of this Act, the Party of Arms. And it's determined that two or more units are already a party. At least the Latin word that "three are already creating a college". Next. 200, or more grams of explosives, is also a party. But wait, that's one banger. That is, there is a number of inaccuracies, inadequacies in this law, and in the faction of the Rebirth Party, there is a particular objection to the special confiscation. Because under special confiscation, a simple robbery will be introduced: they will take the car or the house or other devices. In general, the Rebirth Party supports the adoption of the Law, but only in the first reading. We are prepared to work seriously on it to bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Rebirth Party faction will vote in favour with a number of warnings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u119	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7259. [[on the responsibility for the illicit circulation of arms]] Please vote. [[13:22:28]] For 238. Decision taken. The question is, the bill of passport of a Ukrainian citizen. Here we have three Bills 7384-1 and 2. [[authors: National Deputies Onichtuk, Mining, Zarubinsky]] Please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u120	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be the main document that you're going to be establishing, which is a citizen's passport. Dear colleagues! As we know, the Ukrainian Passport Act and, in fact, all the other two bills have been drafted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that the issue of passports should be resolved and regulated solely by the laws of Ukraine, not by the law as it is today. The project, which I report, is aimed at the introduction in Ukraine of the only citizen's passport to be used, both in and outside Ukraine, to take any action aimed at acquiring, changing or terminating civil rights and duties, as well as at crossing the state border and staying Ukrainian citizens abroad. Today, Ukraine is known to have several types and types of passports, including a separate internal passport and a variety of passports to go abroad. In addition, a child’s identity is recognized by a separate document, and there are also a number of other types of documents that identify the individual. Among other things, one of the bills that will be considered now is the Zarubinsky bill, which stipulates that the number of documents that certify a person needs to be increased further. It is only for those who will certify Ukrainian citizenship that it is proposed to introduce four bills. And that's what I'm stressing, in view of the fact that the bill that I'm reporting provides for the creation, consolidation at the legislative level, development and approval of one document -- a passport, the only passport that will work both in Ukraine and abroad. The bill also provides for the transfer of passporting functions from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to civil authorities, the Ministry of Justice. At the legislative level, the bill sets out general principles and regulations for the passport of a Ukrainian citizen, its form, description, issue and issue, including an exhaustive list of personal information submitted to the authorized authority to issue a passport that meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and international practice. The bill, which I report on, is aimed at implementing and ensuring the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, protecting information of a personal nature, free choice of residence or residence, freedom of movement, etc. The introduction of a new passport and the unification, I stress, of Ukraine’s only passport, are designed to ensure Ukraine’s international obligations to implement one of the most effective mechanisms in the fight against terrorism, organized by international crime, illegal migration, human trafficking, and other negative manifestations of today. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u121	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich, sit down, please. Report to Bill 7384-1 Eugene Hoornik, please. Oleg Zarubinski, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u122	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Honourable MPs, honourable voters, the issue of the introduction of Ukraine's only passport has long been ripe and ripe. Our passport system is now very much like a license plate system where not every DAI employee will know where the car is registered. Foreign passports, as well as license plates, have become a good business, as evidenced by last year’s passport, in paws, a war between two competing companies under the auspices of the Ministry of Interior. Neither citizens nor the state benefit from this. Moreover, citizens have many problems with foreign passports, where corruption thrives. In addition, the presence of diplomatic, service, and general passports and other documents, contrary to the Constitution, provides for the division of citizens into equal and even more equal. Therefore, the bill I have proposed is a proposal to deprive our citizens of the status of inferiority associated with passport chaos. The bill proposes, inter alia, the introduction of a single passport of a European model instead of all kinds of foreign and official passports. The other one. The passport system is proposed to be transmitted to the Ministry of Justice by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which I think is anachronism. Third. It is suggested that passports should not be removed from military personnel, classmates, and convicts, which is a cruel moral humiliation of the individual. Deputies! Honorable Voters! I recognize the validity of many of the observations of the Scientific and Expert Office on the legal technique of the bill, its imperfections and the procedure for the introduction of passports. But I strongly disagree with one conclusion and insist on its implementation. Paragraph 6 of the bill provides for the introduction of data on nationality, religion and some other data to a passport at the request of a citizen. It is clear that in times of the Communist regime, data on nationality could serve as a discrimination for a person, but why, under the conditions of an independent Ukraine, Ukrainians, Russians, heathens, Tatars, or other nationals, should be ashamed of a tribe if any persecution on this matter is prohibited. I have dozens of references from various regions of Ukraine and tens of thousands of signatures requiring the restoration of the count of “nationality”. The bill is compromised. In order to eliminate contradictions with the Constitution and the international practice of completing the graph, it is envisaged that a citizen would be willing to do so. The scientific expertise's observation, I think, is a testimony to our traditional low-priced retail value as a recognition of what a lot is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u123	Yes, thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Hennady Josephovich Udovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u124	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, our committee next November 2nd last year reviewed these three bills proposed by colleagues Onischuk, Górnik, and Zarubinski. These projects are designed to ensure the constitutional right of citizens to obtain passports and other documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine, in accordance with the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. I consider it appropriate to draw your attention to the fact that the relations in the field of production, issuance and compilation of these documents are currently regulated by the Ukrainian passport regulation approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1992. In the 97th year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recognized the stated position of the Cabinet of Ministers on passports that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. In view of this, the legislative solution to the problem is relevant. I want to point out, I want to point out that the committee has considered this issue three times in its meetings. This is a very difficult problem. In fact, a new passport reform in Ukraine, which costs enormously to introduce a new passport. My colleague Gorenik stopped by saying that he was approached by many voters in connection with this passport system. We also receive numerous on the committee, numerous appeals from Ukrainian citizens, with many specific questions, suggestions for a new passport. But I want to remind you that we have a thousand more Ukrainian citizens, one thousand, using passports from the Soviet Union. They're no longer real, but these citizens don't have another document. When you make your decision, I ask you to take into account what the Committee has recommended to the Supreme Council to adopt the Zarubinsky bill on the basis of which the bill is further elaborated, and to take into account the provisions of the Onischuk and Gournik bills. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support any of these bills. The Committee on Budgets does not support this, as it requires huge costs. And you make the decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u125	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, Vitaly Shibko, microphone from the scene. Get ready, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that we don't even have time today to discuss such a complex issue. And I fully support here my colleague, Widowenko, that maybe we're not even ready for that. Yeah, really, the fact that there's a 92 standard, it's out of date, we need to look at it. But if we look at the simplified procedure, especially the three bills, we're not going to define anything here. And at the same time, I want to say that every bill that is, it's made professionally, but not every one of them is ideal for accepting it as a basis. If even today the committee says that there is one that can be accepted as a basis prepared by Zarubinsky's colleague, then there is a question of this bill, when there are such positions, well, look, we read article 5 of the draft on machine-reading information: “It can be included in the legislative form of the palm shape, the pattern of capillary lines., eye retinas, language characteristics of the person and so forth.” I think that if we carefully read all of this, we will see that even the state today is not ready to produce such passports. Are citizens ready for this? Or they may come upon such conditions as to give. We know what battles are going on today with the identification code, so not all citizens today even agree to have this identification code. At the same time, if we talk about other bills about our colleagues today, there are such questions. For example, the point is that this is actually going to be a booklet. Why can it not be a passport, as is done in foreign lands? Why a Book? Why is it necessary to have much of the information that appears in this passport? Is it possible to conclude that each time something changes, a new passport should be obtained? Can our citizens accept that when today this passport book can cost 170 dollars? Is there a need, for example, if it's a Ukrainian citizen's passport to write something there in Latin, in English, because it's used inside? Should we not consider having the only passport so that we can go abroad without having a dozen passports? I think it's a matter of principle. It's a violation of the Constitution. Because the Constitution says we are the people of Ukraine. And there's no other definition. How can we write this in a passport? And it means religion when. It's such a clean, intimate subject that it can't be made public. If that is not what a person wants, it is a complete violation of his rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u127	George Buiko, please. Prepare Oleg Heavy Side.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u128	Georgie Buiko, Communist faction. While reading the submitted passport projects for a Ukrainian citizen, he reluctantly recalled the saying: “No little grandmother has trouble, bought a pig.” And I'm asking myself and you questions. We have nothing to do with the Ukrainian Power, and we have overcome the economic crisis, replaced the Government, which is unable to manage the country, stopped rising food prices, housing, transportation, solved gas problems, gave the people of Ukraine heat in this terrible winter. Examples not only of Alcevska, the technological catastrophe and non-perpetuity, but this also shows the same Crimea where we sent children to health, and a number of other issues that are purely domestic, economic, but very important to people. Finally, another question. What do we have passports today? And another way to put it is to ask a question. How much will that cost the State of Ukraine? So it's basically projects. Substituting a new passport for a new passport does not mean that it will not be updated even within the time limits indicated, for 10 years, and a new passport will be changed. Change of place of residence, change of passport, change of nationality, change of passport, each time for a private citizen will cost at least 170 bracelets. And the last. Passport language, Ukrainian and English. It also has, you know, two aspects. Inside. You know how much disrespect should be paid to your own citizens, two thirds of whom speak Russian. You come to your grandmother’s home in any village and say that you are next to the English language in which to write it in English or in Russian. She'll twist your whiskey at best. And international. The situation should not be strained, nor should the people who, our people, who were in the same Russia, Belarus, CIS countries and who would become helpless citizens. Therefore, we will categorically, our faction, vote against these projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u129	Oleg Tuggnibok. Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u130	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! The question that we are discussing today directly concerns, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which some time ago in fact, by making an appropriate decision on the distinction between the graphs in the passport “nationality” and the fact that we are discussing today. I believe that this question directly concerns our body and, indeed, I support that it must be settled, not by decree, but by law. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has developed a program for the protection of Ukrainians, which is now being presented throughout Ukraine. And I would like to tell you that in various regions of Ukraine, our citizens, the Ukrainians, actually, respond best to the issue of the return of the count in the passport, as well as in the birth certificate "nationality". We all remember very well that such a graph was still in Soviet times, and we know that a large part of the Ukrainians had not exchanged Soviet passports in principle for a long time, since the new passport did not have a nationality charter. Today, in fact, we cannot ask the issue of the protection of Ukrainians as a title nation unless there is a “nationality” in the passport. In fact, the Count’s “nationality ” was taken to the Ukrainians without asking their own permission. It was simply a political decision and the return of such an graph would definitely contribute to the preservation and prosperity of the Ukrainian nation. Respectable Society! Ukraine is not America, and in order to glue everyone to a pile, the Ukrainian must remain Ukrainian, the Polish must remain Polish, the hagauz has to be Hague. Thus, the All-U.S. Freedom Union insists that the count be returned to passports and other documents of nationality. By the way, if necessary, we believe that we have not accepted that after such a decision has not been taken by the Ukrainian Parliament, it is worth initiating a referendum on this, so that the count in the passport “nationality” is adopted and returned. All of us should have the right to feel proud of this nation and pride for being Ukrainian, which is why I understand that these bills, of course, can also have certain commercial conspiracies that can fight different structures, in fact, for the purpose of producing this passport, and these can be huge abuses. However, I clearly support this bill, which was proposed by colleague Eugene Górnik, which states that the count should be returned to the passport “nationality”. I hope so with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u131	Mikhailo Ratushny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u132	Mikhailo Ratushny, non-factional. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Of course, on the one hand, Ukrainian history is a company, and citizens often say that every new minister of the interior has new car signs, every call to Parliament or every government initiates the production of a new passport form. Of course, experience is negative, not a very positive experience of how Ukrainian passports are introduced for a rather long history of Ukrainian independence. But this does not mean that the view of passports as the main attribute of a citizen of the State should be in a state that is not State. By the way, it's not clear to Parliament and the government and society why the current passport has really gone national. He had just approached the right MPs of the Drogunts and said that the Communists had nothing to do with any call to parliament, neither the Movement nor the People's Council, so someone was interested in having a Ukrainian citizen denationalized in Ukraine to forget what kind of tribe he was. By the way, there's no "nationality" in the birth certificate, not if you're getting married. Why, by the way, Ukrainian passports are used not only in the national language but also in Russian and many others, “why”. So when you look at the new model of passport, you really have to go state-owned. And in my opinion, that's best reflected in the Evgen Mining Bill. We have to stop so that the citizen of the state has several passports. I need this passport to be unified. By the way, the issue of passports is not just that it is regulated by law, but that it is regulated by law. This is a problem of illegal migration that is already emerging in Ukraine. Ukrainian passports are very easy to counterfeit. The passport tables, perhaps anyone interested in getting to know the statistics, are easily used by illegal migrants who, in the open eastern border, want to travel through Ukraine to the European Union, with these completely unprotected rays. So if we want to go to Europe, to protect ourselves from illegal migration, we need to move towards a protected, prestigious, only Ukrainian passport. And although it is a poet from another era, I am sure that very soon a Ukrainian citizen will “deliver from his trousers a duplicate of priceless cargo” is a Ukrainian passport. That is if we, as state officials, are to treat the Ukrainian passport with respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u133	The discussion is over. Prowsky, a minute of motive and a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u134	Mikola Porovski, faction of the MP's Rebirth Party. The task of power and parliament is to unite the Ukrainian people. According to the Constitution, chapter two “Human Rights and Freedoms” in Ukraine lives the only indivisible Ukrainian people, although of different national origins: both Ukrainians and Russians and Belarusians. Therefore, the passport should contain the only entry “citizens of Ukraine”. And we must consolidate, not by similar bills, to disunite the Ukrainian people into different nationalities, different religions. This will lead to the release of your passport and to the record of your worship to the church. I believe that this bill on a new passport is not only economically harmful but also politically harmful. It violates the political unity of the Ukrainian people, violates the consolidation of the Ukrainian people and is aimed at the realization of the interest of the anti-Ukrainian forces. And I'm going to point out to the nationalists that, anywhere in the world, the title nation doesn't declare nationality. There is a famous Ukrainian saying: “He has made a fool of himself to pray to God, and he will break his forehead.” I think it's those initiators.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u135	Paul Silent, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u136	Ukrainian People's Party, “Kostenka Block, Plushka” believes that the position of an internationalist, a globalist who has just appeared before me, is simply shameful. Having had a thousand years of history with a civilization on this earth, having been preserved in all calamities, we today must deny in the name of the liberal idea what our forefathers on this earth have been protecting. This is yesterday's position, my dear friend. Do not betray the nations. In principle, what society requires is necessary. If we have 78 percent of Ukrainians who are still preserved, it is clear that this standard must be prescribed as in many European states to which you refer. And if you're talking about a passport as a system like knowledge in the big world, you really need to have a unified, single plastic, with certain warnings and safeguards, as is done throughout the world, but you need to put national protection ahead. This is what a passport is called for in a national state, not a citizen at all. We've been through this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u137	The discussion is over, let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the bill on passports of a Ukrainian citizen, registration number 7384. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:58]] For-64 The decision is not taken. It is based on the draft Passport Act of Ukraine, registration number 7384-1, by Hoornik Eygen. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:49:29]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Here's the vote for Oleg Zarubinski's project, registration number 7384-2, please identify yourself. [[13:49:55]] For-66 Not accepted. Thus, honourable colleagues, the bill is rejected. Well, if you get 150, you can still get 150. Is he going to dial now? If he does, do your job. Bills are rejected. The draft Law on the Elimination of Warnings of Ukraine to the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of War of August 12, 1949, by Kirill Viktor Dmitrović, is under consideration. [[7647 - Registration Number]] I can't see. Please, Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko. Gennady Josephovich. Please withdraw Ukraine’s warnings to the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of War of August 12, 1949. What's the committee's opinion? Keep it up, huh? No objections? There's no objection. I then vote on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Elimination of Warnings of Ukraine to the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of War of August 12, 49. Please vote. [[13:51:31]] For 288 Thank you. Copy that. And in general, can we? No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u138	I won't. Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law to lift Ukraine’s warnings to the Geneva Conventions. Registration number 7647. Please vote. [[13:52:05]] For 291 Thank you. The law is passed. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. [[on the exchange of instruments of ratification]] Registration number 7469. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! It's a very simple situation. I'm going to read article 11 of the bill on the exchange of ratification letters. The exchange of instruments of ratification and the transfer of letters of ratification of Ukraine's international treaties for depository storage shall take place if there is no other agreement between the parties to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Period. But this article does not specify the period during which it will be accomplished. Thus, sometimes the issue of the granting of these letters, the transfer of letters to the depositary, is unduly prolonged. As an example, you and I have repeatedly returned to the depository of the European Charter for Regional Languages or Minority Languages, which has been extended for more than two years, has caused a lot of appeals, queries, reviews, and so on. That is why I propose in article 11 that I should complete it with only one sentence, which was marked “in the course of one month to file this letter to the depositary”. The Science and Experimental Authority agreed with the substance of the bill, but suggested that international experience be taken into account, that the submission takes place within 6 months and thus suggests that the proposed proposal be revised for six months. As the author of the bill, I agree with this proposal from the Science and Technology Administration. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill, and the Committee’s apparatus agreed with the proposal, with such clarification, but due to the absence of a quorum at the meeting, it was not formally approved by the committee. That is why I would like to ask you, my fellow honourable Members, to adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the observation made in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Administration, namely, “within six months”. I think we're going to do a good job with you. Both our State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be set within a certain time frame after fulfilling their obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u140	Yes, thank you. Please, from Mironenko Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u141	Mironenko. Respectable compatriots, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, January 11, 2006, draft law discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a basis. The draft Law provides in article 11 of the Ukrainian Law for a supplement to determine the time limit for the transfer, the transfer of international instruments to deposit with depositaries authorized by this body, for a period of 1 month. The bill does not require additional costs for implementation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be based on further consideration of the proposals it has made. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues has determined that the proposed bill does not affect the income portion of the state budget of Ukraine and its implementation during the current budget period. My personal position is that the bill is useful, strictly necessary. Thank you, Yuri Petrovich Solomatina, our colleague, for preparing this bill. And I think it could be accepted as a whole. But speaking from the committee, I emphasize, the committee requests the adoption of draft Law 7469 in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on Supplementing Ukraine's International Contracts Act. Registration number 7469. Please vote. [[13:57:55]] For-153 Dear colleagues, I asked if we were going to discuss this, you didn't give a sign if we were going to. There is now. It's already here. Please, Leukyanka, do you insist? They don't want to vote because they haven't discussed it. Let's talk about it. I will continue the session until the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u143	Lukyanenko, “Clock of Julius Timoshenko”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! In fact, Solomon did a good job in correcting our legislation. Legislation really needs to be corrected. And those proposals made by the deputies, and Solomon's consent to agree to the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority prove that this is a bill, the law must be supplemented in this way. In general, the problem of international upheavals is of great importance, and so to improve this legislation, it should lead us to avoid unpleasant things that are often very common. Let's say we made a contract with Russia to rent coves in Sevastopol. The legal side of this treaty is not defined at all, and there's only general things, you know, defined, not defined. Next. This agreement did not in fact define the territory of Ukraine under the control of the Russian Black Sea fleet. As a result, Russia is uncontrollable, the Black Sea fleet has uncontrollablely expanded its spheres of influence and activity. And the police and other authorities don't control it the same way. That is to say, it would be necessary to bring this agreement into line with international standards if it were to be specified exactly the limits under which Russian military personnel could not go out, and when they needed to leave, they would have to do so in accordance with general rules, that is, apply for consular office, give them permission to leave the military base, and only then could they appear outside the leased territory in Ukraine. It's nothing. And as a result of the fact that ours in Crimea and the police and the Security Service and others don't exactly follow those exact positions. It turns out that military personnel go wherever they want, with guns walking around, it's a violation of normal relations between states. That's what this is all about, you know, no matter how much I make international agreements. The same could be said now about gas history and the agreement on the conclusion of these gases. The agreement with Russia and with other entities, on the supply of gas in Ukraine. Not enough, we know with you that in a democratic state at all, ordinary contracts cannot be kept secret. And now we're not familiar, you and I, members of the Supreme Council, aren't familiar with these apps.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u145	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz's faction. The Ukrainian International Contracts Act was adopted in 2004. It regulates the arrangements for the conclusion, implementation and termination of Ukraine’s international treaties. I underline, with the aim of ensuring Ukraine's national interests, an effective foreign policy. International politics is a complex and delicate mechanism. There are delicate situations in international relations, there are moments in the history of international relations when there is a need to pause international relations. Such pauses can be dictated by political, economic, social, or other reasons. Sometimes contracts are made to meet certain previous conditions. What if the partner state doesn't meet the previous conditions? During the month, do ratifications, and then what? Therefore, the legal deadline for the exchange of ratifications within one month is such that it may not be in the interests of Ukraine. This, by the way, is nowhere in the world to set terms for the exchange of instruments of ratification. In international practice, there is such a tradition that for six months all of this is done. But in our Hall, when it comes to ratifying one or the other international treaties, there has never been any complication and usually they are ratified when it takes time. Thus, socialists believe that the adoption of such a bill may be detrimental to the national interests of Ukraine, and thus article 11 cannot be supported as proposed. You should not set a time limit of 1 month or 6 months. You have to ask a question about ratification of a treaty or a law when these conditions have been reached, when it meets the national interests of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u146	Please, Deputy Minister First, of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that in our country, the issues relating to international agreements are regulated by the law on international agreements. And it was prepared and approved in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties. The Vienna Convention on the Rights of International Contracts in 1969 did not set the deadlines for the depository of instruments of ratification. In this regard, I would like to point out that, following the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the International Treaty of Ukraine, there are possible cases in addition to the arguments just put forward by the national deputy Sadowa. There are cases where the post facto need to develop additional, legislative, financial and other mechanisms that are necessary for proper implementation in the national legislation of the rules and regulations established by the International Treaty of Ukraine. Therefore, the imposition of time limits for the depository's ratification letters may cause Ukraine to breach its international legal obligations. In addition, the terms for the transfer of letters of ratification may be adjusted to take account of the specificities of Ukraine’s cooperation with an international organization or state, as well as with political and economic considerations. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the President is the person who provides leadership for Ukraine's foreign policy. And in this connection, I would like to ask you not to tie your hands so that you are truly qualified and fully protected by Ukraine’s national interests. I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to remove this question from the discussion, as it does not suit the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-08-m0.u148	Thank you, but there is no provision for us to take down a question that is or does not suit one or the other interests, we are simply determined by a vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. [[on the exchange of instruments of ratification]] Registration number 7469. Please vote. [[14:07:11]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we will conclude the meeting this morning and the work of Parliament this morning. This morning’s session is closed. I remind the factions and groups that at 2 p.m., the Conciliation Council began its meeting. And I remind all of you that at 3 p.m., we're here to start parliamentary hearings on the issue of housing for military personnel.
