ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists. I'm asking you to prepare for registration. Take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. The “Council” records the presence of 405 national deputies. The morning session is open. Let's welcome Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk on his birthday. We wish him good, success in his work. Honourable National Deputies, on October 16th of the fifty-second year of life, a Ukrainian national deputy, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy, nuclear security, member of the “Our Ukraine” bloc, Yuri Mikolaiovich Orobec. One of the strongest deputies left us. A person is exceptionally decent, professional, honest, and trustworthy, and could be trusted in any matter that could be believed in. Let us keep him in mind, for in our memory only man lives on earth and we express our compassion for his loved ones and ask that we honor him with a moment of silence. Please sit down. There is a decision of the Central Electoral Commission that it has registered with the Ukrainian National Deputies Peter Pantelemonovich, Yegorenko Tamaru Vasilovna, who are included in the election list of the Party of Regions and Gnatkewicz Yuri Vasilovich, who is included in the electoral list of the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. And in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, the Ukrainian National Deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before taking an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Peter Pantelemonovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u2	I, Petrik Petr Pantelemonovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u3	Hello, new MP. Before taking an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Jegorenko Tamara Vasilovna is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u4	I, Yegorenko Tamara Vasilevna, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u5	We welcome Tamara Vasilovna. We wish her success. For the formation of an oath on the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy veteran of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism Yuri Vasilovic Gnatkević is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u6	I, Yuri Gnatkevitch, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u7	Welcome, Yuri Vasilovich. We wish all the newly elected deputies success in difficult parliamentary activities. Meanwhile, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to make statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages, and so forth. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. It's a recording. Please, Kiselov of the Party of Regions. Miroshenko gives the word. Please come in, Miroshnichenko. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u8	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions claims that it is necessary to end the various speculations on the subject of “whomever is to blame” in relations with the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of Regions highlights the need to end the period of culinary conflicts along the lines of relations between the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are based on legal uncertainty. For almost a year, the country is living by the new rules adopted in the course of political reform. Yet, this reality is still not perceived by some politicians. The legal and legal improvement of political reform, its development in basic, systematic laws once and for all, will make artificial misunderstandings impossible, lead the country out of a closed circle with accusations and suspicions. Unfortunately, again today we have a potential space for conflict, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has submitted to Parliament a bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the secretariat of the President of Ukraine prepares its version. Very little time will pass and society will be actively engaged in another conflict between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. To the last warning and to the final warning, and to resolve these disputes, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to restore the National Round Table with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, representatives of parliamentary factions, representatives of the Secretary of the President, scientists, experts, public figures together to discuss and produce a consensus vision of the principles of government in the new parliamentary-presidential model. So together, we're going to take a historic step, we're going to create a system of power that's going to work effectively, regardless of political personnel. So society will finally know who, what, and how much responsibility is there for? This will not be easy to resolve but will create predictable, predictable parameters of activity many years in advance. We're stabilizing the political process and we're going to warn a lot of problems. The holding of such a national debate will allow for the establishment at the legislative level of clear and transparent organizational and legal relations of the higher political bodies of the State, determine the place and role of the opposition. We are convinced that in the country we have matured both objective and subjective prerequisites for a clear legal definition of the way and parameters of its main political players. This is about the adoption of the Laws on the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law on Opposition. And of course, in the shortest term, we have to carry out a second stage of political reform on local self-government. Thus, reconciliation, production, and clear legalization of basic issues of governance are required and time-consuming. Governance chaos and public noise have nothing to do with real reforms and democratic progress. Today, we can create a system-wide legislative field that will guarantee democracy, development and non-return to one-managed governance and dictatorship. How can we respond to this historic challenge, how quickly will we be guided by the fight against someone to unite for our country, how quality and effective the new rules of political interaction will be, and we will have such a state. And together we must answer to our own people and to our own history. The Anti-Crist Coalition, the Party of Regions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are ready to cooperate constructively with the President of Ukraine and with all the constructive political forces. We suggest rejecting political ambitions for cooperation and a shared future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given by Julius Timoshenko of the same - name block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u10	Good afternoon, Julia Timoshenko. Dear friends, I have just listened carefully to the talk that the representatives of the Party of the Regions read from the sheet. An interesting performance is written by the pianists of the Party of Regions for their colleagues. I can say that the positive thing that was emitted is just to close up all the real information with very good, nice words. And now I want to talk about reality. First. This morning we addressed Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz as Head of the Supreme Council and handed him a list of all the names with signatures, as provided for by the Rules, on the establishment of the parliamentary association "Parliamentary Opposition". And they asked the anti-crisis coalition led by Frost in Parliament to make a small detail out of the rostrum about the establishment of a parliamentary union called the Parliamentary Opposition. Even in such a trifle we were denied, they said: “And why should we announce it is unforeseeable by the Rules.” I just want to point out to you that not only is the Opposition Act, not just some democratic procedures that have just been discussed here in this brilliant speech, but even the basic thing that the declaration of parliamentary opposition by the MP and that we do not have that privilege. Second, dear friends! I wanted to inform you that the budget process in Ukraine for 2007 was completely broken because the Ukrainian Budget Code was written, including for members of the anti-crisis coalition and for the anti-crisis government. And it says that by October 30, the budget has to go through first reading. We have October 30th, Friday, and we have been completely cleared of all budget issues for this week. This means that on November 3, when the budget is needed in the second reading, nothing will happen even in the first reading of the budget process. What does that mean? This means that this “professional” government simply cannot balance and translates and translates the budget every time, and then they call it into a vote at the same time in the first, second reading and in general, and put a dot in any public discussion of the budget, and they will extend it with all those antisocial programs, with the absence of an increase in pensions, wages, VAT collection for agrarians, with the destruction of the whole social sphere, they will eventually enter it on the last day before the completion of the work of the Supreme Council, before the New Year. That's how a professional anti-crisis coalition works. And I can tell you that, in addition to everything else, there are beautiful words for real voting in Parliament. I want to remind you that last week, at the initiative of our faction, the removal of the benefits from national MPs was being considered. I want to recalculate the benefits that should be paid to the people of Ukraine. First. We have the absolute benefit of obtaining housing. And if they don't live, they can get compensation for up to 300,000 dollars once for a good life. In addition, if we have a deputy who retires, he receives about 12 salaries for his one - time assistance. And that, I'll tell you, is not a simple sum. That's about 100,000 dollars. Once upon retirement. For example, we are not paid for any transportation. They're completely off-limits to any payment. They are treated free of charge when the entire country is being treated for a cost, as a result of their own work. That is why I want to inform society that the bill on the abolition of benefits from the National Deputies has not been passed because the Party of the Regions has not voted for this, and by the way, half of the faction of our Ukraine. And I would like to re-examine this bill and vote on it this week. Deputies must not speak beautifully, but act. And we're counting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u11	Simonenko's speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! I particularly want to address our dear veterans of the Great Homeland War. Over the past 15 years, we have seen few official documents that go beyond existing legislation and morality. However, in cynicism and legal nihilism, nothing like the President's decree on 14 October this year has not yet been with you, and it is perhaps one of the most disgraceful pages of our history. This document, as you know, is an attempt to rehabilitate a bloody gang member. The President's order, in my opinion, and the position of my faction comrades must be lifted immediately. This document will disgrace Ukraine. If Yushchenko refuses to withdraw it, we, the people who defend the great truth of the great deeds of our people, must take action. You tell me. That the Supreme Council cannot revoke the decree. But she can either cancel it in caffets or cancel the President directly. And the Communist faction believes that 14 October is another disgrace page in Ukraine's new history. Why? The President requires the State Committee on Television and Radio to provide full coverage of the so-called Ukrainian Liberation Movement, which is understood by the UPA. Yashchenko clearly points out not only how we need to raise the issue of the activities of the UPA OPA by fascists, but once again, that not one settlement, not one of the villages of OUN OPA in the years of the Great Homeland War, has not been liberated from the fascists. By his decree, he proposes, in return, that everyone recognize the free movement of those who during the Second World War, as he says, because it was the Great Homeland War of our people who took the stand against the united nations, that is, the anti-Hitler coalition. In other words, Yushchenko wants to review the outcome of the Second World War, which is categorically prohibited by the Helsinki Accords. He ignored the great feats of the Great Homeland War of our generation. It is clear that signing, and all the more so, will lead to a sharp deterioration of relations with our neighbours and historic partners in the West and the East, with Russia and Poland. The brotherly Russian people are declared to be the occupier against whom they can fight the most barbaric methods, and other UNU UPA methods do not know that they have fought. With regard to Poland, it appears that it is suggested that 150,000 Polish civilians killed by bandits alone in Wallini and only in 1943 are seen the costs of national liberation. Is it true, Yushchenka, that she will not rest until she has dispersed us from all the world? Finally, it's about the ideology of morality. To recognize bandits as the heroes of the liberation struggle is to rehabilitate fascism and condemn all those who fight against it. The U.N. ideology under the U.S.A. is a fascist one, and it is clear that many documents in which gang leaders call for the killing of Russians, Poles and Jews, in general, anyone who has only a shadow of their policy. But it's also the worst. Yushchenko proposes in fact to annul the decision of the Nuremberg Process, the trial of the world community over the Fascists. The second problem is priority issues that, in our view, need to be addressed. They must be addressed primarily on the basis of what concerns us and our citizens today as a whole. These are gas, coal, gas prices. It's the natural order of management. But they can be addressed when we make our policies clear for the future, not yesterday. And we, the Communist faction, propose that all these issues, which we are concerned about today, be resolved only in the context of addressing Ukraine's entry into the Single Economic Area. The process of concerted action with the Russian Federation, Belarus and Kazakhstan must be accelerated today and this problem must be addressed. Third. The faction of communists requires that Kabmin, when preparing instruments of accession to WTO, be based only on national interests, only on the protection of the domestic producer and, above all, as a pupil of the eye, protect our agro-industrial complex, which will not be able to resist the expansion of the goods from abroad. And the fourth question is the budget issue. The Communist faction will not allow and believes that today it is necessary to prevent the adoption of the budget as it was adopted, under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund, under the pressure of the World Bank. In fact, what does recent experience tell us? We cannot allow the budget to be adopted as it was under pressure from Yushchenko, Timoshenko and Ehanurov. The Communist faction will, in principle, defend these positions in its activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u13	The word is Roman Immortal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u14	Immortal, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! I inform you that on October 5th, the faction “Our Ukraine” decided to move to opposition at its meeting. The same decision has been made. [[Applause]] The same decision has been taken by all six parties that are part of the Block and the “our Ukraine” political alliance. Why did we make that decision? For the past two months, we have witnessed the break of the Ukrainian internal and external course, which was supported by the Ukrainian people in President Viktor Yushchenk's election. Ukraine’s integration into the World Trade Organization is being disrupted. In fact, suspended programmes of cooperation between Ukraine and the EU. I'm not talking about the root of Ukraine's entry into the Euro-Atlantic community. There are changes not only in the external course but also in the internal course. The recent hearings in the Supreme Council on energy supply are evidenced by the Government's policy of economic absurdity and this is confirmed by the Government's actions in the agricultural market, as confirmed by the Government's actions to deepen and increase the administration of entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. I'm not saying any more that all these questions have been openly reflected in the draft budget submitted by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under such conditions, “Our Ukraine” came out of the negotiating process, “Our Ukraine” in opposition, our ministers are leaving the government. With regard to our proposals for today's situation, we turn to the opposition forces in Parliament and outside Parliament: to form a European Ukraine as a confederation, to produce this confederation a plan of action aimed at creating an alternative to the anti-crisis coalition and the current government. The task of this coalition is to develop legislation and test it to accelerate the course for European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The main activities of such a coalition could be the work of the opposition government and opposition government committees, whose task was to monitor clear decisions taken by the government, which are taken by the anti-crisis coalition and to make proposals about them. A second challenge for this coalition would be the formation of a new legislative, legislative and testing base, both in Ukraine, in the regions and at the international level. All of this can be a good development in order to create an alternative in the actions of today's government and at the right time to adopt this legislation to accelerate Ukraine's accession to the European and Euro-Atlantic communities. We strongly believe that only the processes of integration into the European community guarantee that the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens will develop, that Ukraine will never return to the totalitarian regime. This course alone guarantees that Ukraine’s independent sovereignty and territorial integrity will be maintained. This means that we are ready to cooperate on these issues, both with the parliamentary opposition forces and with the non-parliamentary opposition forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a test to implement the new provisions of the Constitution. It is clear that under such conditions, the actions of the anti-crisis coalition and the processes that have taken place with the non-cooperational election of the leadership of the Supreme Council, we have, in fact, stopped the deepening of constitutional reform. So our task in the opposition government, in the opposition government committees, is to develop new approaches to the formation of a system of governance in Ukraine that is fully in line with the European course of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u15	The word is derived from the faction of socialists. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honorable Radio and Television! Today, from this rostrum, especially when the representative of Uliya Volodymyrny Timoshenko spoke, there are many questions about morality. Morale, honor, ethics of the deputy of the Supreme Council. I guess that's the right thing to do. Lately, and in front of you are very serious battalions, and the immoral conduct of a deputy, especially a representative of one or another force, is certainly putting a stain on all political power. That's what I'd like to talk to you about. At a time when we're talking about morality, there's a very interesting situation going on in Sveti-Uspenia Svetigorska Lavra. Deputy from the Volodymyr Block, Timoshenko, Mr. Zubov is building a cabac in the area of this laurel. Of course, the governor, of course, challenges what is happening in court. The court decides to suspend the construction of the cabac in the area of laurel until all the questions are finally clarified. That was the case. But this does not touch the deputies of the Ulysses Block of Volodymyrna Timoshenko and personally Mr. Zubov. I want to read to you my name from the Bishop of the Holy Land, Bishop of the Holy Land of the Holy Land of the Holy Land of Archenia. We request your intervention in connection with and the hooligan conduct of the deputy of the Supreme Council of the Party of the Yulia Timoshenko Zubova Valentina Sergeevich, who lives in Kiev on the street of Sortrovcny, house 4, apartment 65, which was set out in the following. 15. On the street of Zarečnoy, 4 in the town of Svetgorsk, the Donetsk Region was sealed in the building of the former monastery bread bench, renovated by Zubov, in the presence of the prosecutor and the prosecutor, as well as two representatives of Zubov, in response to the judgement of the Slavyan Horridsud on the cessation of construction work during the trial. The Orthodox pilgrims organized a picket to monitor the implementation of the decision. On 29 September, about 7 hours 30 minutes, the Zubov deputy arrived at the construction site. With the help of eight guards, he roughed up his workers and ordered them to resume construction work. These illegal actions by Zubov were accompanied by uncensored weapons and threats against pilgrims and priests. The executioner who arrived after Zubov left the building was not admitted to the facility by security and made an act to indicate the continuation of the work. We believe that the actions of Zubov V.S. It is incompatible with the name of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. The annex on three sheets, the documented facts of Teeth, and that's what I'm asking. Julia Vladimirovna, I address you personally. I'm asking you to tend to what the Teeth calls himself, a belligerent atheist, to be honest, I thought the time of impatience for the believers had long passed. But that doesn't concern a member of your faction. I'll hand over these materials to you myself. These are 30,000 signatures of believers protesting the actions of a member of your faction. And I'd like to ask you for morals to be applied to your faction's deputies. At the same time, I will transmit these materials to the regulatory committee, requesting an assessment of the actions of the MP of the Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko faction. Thank you for your attention. Oh, I have one more minute, by the way. With regard to, again, morality and integrity of conduct. Criticism of our actions towards the budget. Julia Vladimirovna, give yours an alternative. We will vote for him. But give me something, you didn't give me anything. First, gas price, very good question. As early as 2004, the public control that I have the honour to lead determined that it was the possibility that this issue could be resolved when you were Prime Minister. I threw letters about the price of gas at you as Prime Minister. I even came to the dance, Julia Vladimirovna, when you and all the Cabinet of Ministers were riding to give you this letter about the price of gas. The security guard wouldn't let me in then. And no one was given the opportunity, then you didn't care. Now you're interested. So let's talk about morality, about honor, just the real thing, not the pierra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u17	On behalf of the President, he asked for the word of Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u18	Yuri Klukkowski, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not going to dissuade this moment of black lie from this rostrum, which was poured out on the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army by the secretary of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I will not talk about the fact that not the representative of the fifth column in Ukraine, who serves another state, is not the person who, in studying the history of his own people, did not rise above the short course of the UCP(b), to judge the role that the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army played in the history of Ukraine. I have come to this rostrum for another reason, for those who have not yet read the Ukrainian Constitution and laws, I would like to warn you for the last time from this rostrum that the honour and dignity of the President of Ukraine are protected by the Constitution of Ukraine, and criminal responsibility is established for defiling this honor. I remind you once again that the Constitution of Ukraine within the framework of parliamentary immunity does not exempt the Ukrainian National Deputy for the responsibility of slander and insult. So I ask those who do not want to bite their tongue at the right time to be held criminally responsible for the insult of the honour and dignity of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, please repeat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u20	It's time you turned the time on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u21	You don't want her to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u22	No, it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u23	Why are you yelling? Listen, and then you'll take one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! We're with you as a socialist and we've just seen all the brutality and his personal, and their leaders and his political power. I want you and I to mention that the Socialists and Alexander Moroz are no longer able to talk about morality in principle after they went to the Party of Regions that did not build a cabac somewhere, but the Party of Areas where all the officials who, in ten years, plundered all the state property of the country, who owned 90 percent of the strategic enterprises that washed their pockets practically all the state finances, they're all sitting in the Party of Regions. And you've found, as you say, somewhere, some kind of construction and you've done your whole performance on it. I'm sure Teeth will do it for himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Have a seat. Give your tooth a word, you can speak from your seat, you want on the rostrum, please, the rostrum for your services. Valentin Alexandrovich Zubov has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I don't think any of you would want to be in my shoes right now. I have to say that I knew Mr. Volga wasn't a full-blown man, but that he could go down to such humiliating, offensive and, at the same time, primitive events, I couldn't allow. Today such a coincidence seems to have occurred, today in the Voice of Ukraine, today's issue, approach the distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies to the table, take this newspaper to our parliamentary office and read my request to my Attorney General on the merits of this problem. And you'll all realize that everything Volga said today, thinking about morality, is a lie of pure water. And you, Mr. Volga, will answer, except as a national of Ukraine in court, because I will immediately hand over all the materials to the court. But I want to say something else, dear friends, unfortunately, the problem is very serious. But we must not fall below the plituse in political discussions, nor should we turn a private problem into a political tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u27	Have a seat, please. A brief summary of our dialogue. I'd like to pay attention to a few details. Valentin Alexandrovich, please. Sit down, sit down. First of all, I'd like to get everyone's attention not to build places, but to build legislation. Let's do this first. It's different. In terms of opposition, adjectives, and so on. It's happened that everyone knows. There are representatives of one another and there are others, they have done as stipulated by the Rules and there have been no violations here. Therefore, the charges against me are totally unfounded. Regarding the budget. I'd like to reassure everyone who cares about him, he'll be balanced, socially oriented and accepted at the right time. I'd like everyone to be involved. If you have any alternative projects or anything else, please suggest them. Regarding the charges against the benefits of deputies. I would like to remind you that there were just not enough votes to be able to take the initiative in adopting the relief bill. And I've already warned Julia Volodymyrovna, you have to hold back to your conclusions, because all that you've said here and about me, I could put out two lines of "the sacred path has spread all the way from the EU to the EU." Please. I'm announcing that National Deputy Yuri Gnatkevitch is entering the Yulia Timoshenko Block, into the Yulia faction of Timoshenko. We welcome him with this choice. [[Applause]] The question of transferring parliamentary hearings to the World Trade Organization is being considered. That's what this is about. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council, including this issue in today’s consideration, commissioned it to make the necessary decision on the day after tomorrow. Platinum Vladimir Mikhailovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy was well prepared for tomorrow, according to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's accession to the WTO “Prospectives and Problems”. The question is practically prepared, but today we are drafting a decision to move these hearings to November 1st in order to prepare this issue more carefully, because it is state-owned and most important today. We're expecting the Cabinet of Ministers, and yesterday I was at a joint meeting of government committees where four more bills and five more are agreed upon, which will finally be agreed on on Thursday, or the day after tomorrow. For the purpose of more careful preparation, I propose that the parliamentary hearings be postponed to November 1st this year. And I take this opportunity to invite all of you, all of you scientists, representatives of the diplomatic services, all the experts on this issue, to the session room on November 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of procedure. I'll do it again. Do you have a question? Please ask a question. Sign up. Three minutes to ask. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u30	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I once doubted your sincerity and ability to really stimulate the processes that guarantee Ukraine's entry into the WTO this year. I understand that this transfer clearly poses a risk that it can no longer be. I would like you to propose in parallel with hearings on a date or day of the following week, which is not plenary, in order to listen to all the WTO laws specifically during this day, to fulfill our obligations and to complete this procedure this year. Otherwise you break up, I mean the coalition that you represent as the defector and the government that you formed, the introduction of Ukraine to WTO. So you're changing the vector of the Ukrainian movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u31	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, your expertise, tells you that you know that parliamentary hearings are not the organ that decides whether to come in or not when to enter. And it doesn't dictate to the state, it just makes proposals, it makes it possible for all of us — scientists, manufacturers, statesmen to speak for or against. And that's why parliamentary hearings are a limit, a responsibility limit. Everything else depends on the session room. The following are the proposals: three billings today in the hall, please support them. Four submitted yesterday, approved by the government committee, are being filed today, please confirm. Five on Thursday will finally be approved on the government committee, entered into the hall, please accept. The other eight on the government committee yesterday were said to be considered and submitted to Parliament by the end of October, so it's up to us. I thank you for the faction you represent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u32	Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u33	I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u35	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, do you recall that last plenary week, when I made decisions about parliamentary hearings, I asked you what was the meaning of those hearings? Are they such a step to bury Ukraine’s entry into WTO? This time. It's a very interesting new way of making decisions with your coalition that you're in. Remember, overcoming the veto under the President's applause of the Act "On the Moratorium of Tariffs" in a week, so you all smell your head how to undo it. So you were glad that you made the decision to listen, to cancel today. That's how long it's going to take, this way of doing your coalition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. I would like to remind you that the members of the coalition supported the President of Ukraine, who twice vetoed this law. And only, thanks to the coalition, that the President's image was supported and the veto that he imposed was unrestrained. That's the first question. The other one. With regard to parliamentary hearings. I've already talked about this and I want to stress once again that the committee has invited all the diplomatic representations of the world that are in Ukraine, all the media in the world that are represented in Ukraine, all the professionals of all levels, scientists, legislators. The executive heads, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic, were obliged by order to attend the entire composition of the government, the heads of state administrations, and the State Committees. At this level, the hearing will take place on November 1st, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I repeat, this is a procedural question. I put to the vote a draft decree amending the Supreme Council Order to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “A state of preparation for Ukraine’s accession to the WTO World Trade Organization. Problems and prospects.” The project is in front of you. Please identify yourself. For 241. Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to remind you once again that the transfer does not mean that the law itself has not been reviewed or stopped. During the hearing, we will then look at all the perspectives that are open when these laws are passed or when the issue of the entry into force of the WTO for Ukraine is resolved from the point of view of both the manufacturer and the exporting and importing capabilities of Ukraine. Please consider the draft Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, with distinguished labour groups, educational institutions, citizens' unification, military units and unification. The author of the National MP's legislative initiative, you are Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! For many years, the country’s economy, science, culture, social sphere of protection for our country’s labour force, educational institutions, citizens’ associations, military units, and associations have been marked by the national awards of the Ukrainian RSR, the Soviet Union, medals, honorary documents, and so forth. In view of the fact that part of the award - winning groups, particularly military formations, were later restructured, reunited with others or completely eliminated, the question of the further fate of these State rewards was raised. Current legislation has unfortunately not settled this issue. Thus, the enormous educational potential, including the upbringing of our young people in the famous working battle traditions, is not fully exploited by the educational potential of these State rewards. My bill suggests that the State rewards of labour groups, educational institutions, military associations, formations, unifications of citizens who unite or reorganize are passed on to their successors and, in the event of liquidation, transferred to museums in order to establish the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The general conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is generally positive. However, it cannot be agreed with the Authority's view that the issues raised by the draft Act can be resolved by making appropriate changes to the current Act on Ukrainian State Prizes. Because article 3 of this Law clearly sets out a list of such awards and does not include the State rewards of the Union of Soviets and the Federal Republics. Judge for yourself. The article 3 clearly states: “See the state awards that define the title ‘The Hero of Ukraine’, the Order, the Medal, the badge, the nominal firearms, the honorary title of Ukraine, the Ukrainian State Award, the Presidential Medal.” That is, you and I will see that this article of this Law is virtually impossible to make. I mean, it's about the national awards of the Ukrainian RSR, the Soviet Union, or the federal republics. And the last. Dear colleagues, if this bill is passed, its implementation from the state budget of Ukraine will not be necessary, as you understand. Therefore, honourable members of the people, please support the bill I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u39	Questions. Please sign up for the question for five minutes. Chubarov. After him, Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u40	Dear reporter. As I understand it, you've taken the time limit that these State rewards fall under, that part of time that's called Soviet. If we care so much about generations, about traditions, about memory conservation, everything else, why shouldn't we, let's say, just move away from that time to history. Take both Cossack times, and the times of the Crimean Khan, and the Russian Empire. And it's all passed on, museums, for certain areas. Because not only institutions and businesses were rewarded, territories were rewarded, there were appropriate military flags, bunkers, and so forth. Why did you stop only in Soviet time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. I think the initiative for introducing a bill that would take into account Cossack times, the Russian Empire, and so on, will be behind you. And I've been introducing a bill, taking into account that in our present day, we've faced a problem and we're dealing with every day with a problem that exists, and in particular, it's very acute in the process of reorganizing, reforming our armed forces. When whole military connections are eliminated and not handed over to the successors or even to the storage of those relics, the military, more loyal, State rewards that marked the glorious battle path, especially those military parts, especially during those formidable battles and those of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u42	Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u43	Thank you. I'd like to give it to Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u44	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u45	Dear Valentin Grigorovich, we in Ukraine will soon have half the citizens as heroes of Ukraine. Too many heroes. And in this regard, citizens ask this question to you too. What time limits do you set? Because it has been said here whether to start in 1917 or start in the period of the sovereign state of Ukraine, or not to introduce this law of chaos in addition to what is happening when, unsuspectingly, unscrupulously and without cause, heroes are given to relatives, acquaintances.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as the heroes are concerned, I think you've just ruled out the introduction to the names of the heroes of the Soviet Union and the socialist work that took place in Soviet times. And you've already asked the question after today, how and who are represented by the names of the heroes of Ukraine. I agree with you that this approach probably cannot be served by our better citizens who really deserve it. And the thing about the other side of the problem. I think I've taken a period that you can understand. This is the period during which our working groups, military associations, public organizations are rewarded, and this would have to be read out by familiarizing myself with my bill, the national awards of the Soviet Union, the federal republics of the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u47	Don't worry, he'll read and everything will be fine. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of regions. Valentin Grigorovitch, you know, I don't think anyone in this session room has any doubts about the relevance and necessity of adopting this bill. Dear colleagues, you go out on the ledger of our ruins, the so-called “blows” of the markets, and see what rewards there are not there, no one is interested in what way these awards have gone, who they've been to, or who's behind all this criminality. That is why I have this question about the body to which the bill will be implemented, because you speak, the law says, "In a certain order established by the Cabinet." Then the monitoring functions for the implementation of this bill will be carried out by some state authority, if a state authority, specifically, which is to make this bill really work. And there is no doubt that it is essential in the name of our historical memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fourth paragraph of the bill I have proposed, which clearly sets out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers within a month of the date of publication of this law, to adopt the legal and regulatory act provided for in this law. So this legal act is going to be absolutely everything in terms of how these awards are handed over or how they are stored, and so on. This legal act will solve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u50	Have a seat, please. From the committee on this subject is Olga Borisovna Bodnar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill at its October 4, 2006. The project deals with rewards for legal persons who are not provided for in the Law on Rewards that now exists. This is indeed an up - to - date issue that needs a legislative settlement. The adoption of the law will, first and foremost, allow for the determination of the fate of honorary prizes for military, state, pardon, granted to enterprises, institutions, organizations in the days of the Soviet Union. This question has an additional moral aspect. First, a story to remember, because if you don't remember history, you won't have your future. Secondly, the employees of the successors of such enterprises, I hope, will be aware of the importance of the success and achievements of their predecessors, which will move them to take greater responsibility for their work. The question does not touch the military signs, nor does it touch the questions that Mr. Chubarov said. Therefore, work on this gap should be continued, and the committee will be grateful for the suggestions offered. In view of what has been said, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u52	Is there a question for Olga Borisovna? Yes. Two of them are listed on the question, and I am no longer announcing, but only Rephat Chubarov has Jaroslav Kendzior, please. Three minutes to ask, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u53	Dear reporter! In principle, maybe if I get a chance to speak, I'll say more. I may support that idea. Because everything that we have in the previous one needs to be preserved and not only for the purpose of raising the positive, but also for the purpose of explaining what was happening to us in society. But I'd like to ask you something else. Would it not be enough for us to make a corresponding, literally, one series of amendments to the Law on Museums, an archival legacy, where they would be obliged to make certain receipts to preserve these symbols of relics and so forth, rather than spend all the time, including the Supreme Council, discussing and adopting such a separate law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I want to answer him. The point is that now in the Law on Museums and Museum Heritage, this law cannot fail in any way, because it's about what some organizations, they have, they're reorganising. They do not cease to exist. So this project says that if an organization or an enterprise does not cease to exist, it becomes a beneficiary of that reward, and if an enterprise is reorganized, it will be transferred to museums in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. If you propose to make appropriate changes to the prize, the State rewards, we have also considered this issue on the committee, well, unfortunately, in the preamble to that law we are talking about natural persons, and in this case we are talking about legal persons. I mean, if we change the whole concept of that law and make changes to its preamble, then another thing, and introduce a separate chapter. Such a chapter cannot yet be provided for in the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u56	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. I'm in solidarity with Rephat Chubarov's question, but I'm continuing it. Would it be appropriate, as it were, to provide for, for example, archives for the eternal preservation of these memorials to the cats of the Ukrainian people today: Lenin, Dørjinsky, Pistishev, Varasil and so on, and so on, and the street names of those cats of the Ukrainian people that are now pretty much all over the district, district centers of the East, south of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u57	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that it was not my idea to say such a phrase in vain: “Whoever does not remember his own history will not have his future.” So if there is such a desire of the Supreme Council, but I think not in the archives, but in the museum, it would be wise to predict that there are historical monuments, or some street names, please, let us consider the matter. But it's a museum, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u59	Thank you, sit down, please. You remind Jaroslav Mikhailovich that a monument is not a reward, it is a monument. Please. Yes, so are you willing to participate in the discussion? There are no wanters, are there? Therefore, there is a draft decree that proposes the adoption of this Law, so that it can be redrafted, taking into account all the suggestions made here at the time of the questions, the answers. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. Based on, well, it was just an offer. For – 372 Thank you. No, there's a denial, you can't, you can't. I take it as a basis, and I think the vote is the answer to the debate. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. Please report to Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Land Policy or Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u60	Honourable Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, the bill prepared to harmonize legislation with international requirements and prepare for Ukraine’s entry into WTO. It should be noted that the bill fully complies with international and European requirements, takes fully into account the standards and requirements of the Health Code for Ground Animals of the International Epizootic Bureau and the World Trade Organization Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, and complies with the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. Ukraine’s draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine’s Veterinary Medicine Act contains 17 chapters and 108 articles against 11 chapters and 40 articles in the current law. The proposed bill provides 119 terms and concepts, including the basic international terms set out in the International Epizootic Bureau’s Health Code for Ground Animals. New chapters are included in the bill according to international requirements, namely, the principles of developing, adopting and implementing animal health measures, including risk analysis and management. Protection of animal health and animal quarantine, regulation of animal circulation, and goods under the control of the State Veterinary Service, as well as regulation of the production and circulation of veterinary products, food, international trade, and so forth. The project foresees that the department and its territorial authorities form the only system of state veterinary authorities. The bill has more detailed and transparent international legislation requirements for risk analysis and risk management. Reports of proposed veterinary measures, procedures for determining the effectiveness of foreign veterinary administrations that will facilitate trade between countries and ensure the epidemiological well-being of Ukraine. A separate article of the bill is devoted to determining the effectiveness of the veterinary administration of another country. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the veterinary administration is carried out with a view to the purpose of fulfilling the basic principles of the international epizootic office by the veterinary services. The bill also specifies the activities of the State Regional Veterinary and State Border and Transport Supervisory Service, by introducing a clear system of standard selectively extended cross-border veterinary control of goods. Chapter 12 The International Trade of the Bill provides for the introduction into Ukraine of transit and export goods through designated border inspection posts to meet international requirements. Goods, goods imported into Ukraine, are required. The procedure for importing and transiting public health and veterinary facilities is simplified. Specific articles of the bill set out the requirements for standard cross-border veterinary control, which provides for the inspection by border State veterinary health inspectors of public veterinary facilities and supervision on the basis of the examination of supporting documents, the inspection of cargo and the analysis. the state of the country of dispatch. Sample veterinary health control is carried out periodically under the appropriate product safety programme through extended control. That is to say, extended veterinary health control is applied under the national programme of selective veterinary health control during the calendar year to a specific percentage of goods with goods counted by category. First, live animals, second, nutritious products of animal origin, and other commodities. The bill pays special attention to the regulation, the maintenance of animals, the production and circulation of food products of animal origin, veterinary products, and so forth. Sections 10 and 11 of the project set out requirements for the regulation of the production and circulation of veterinary preparations, substances, food additives, prefixes, animal feed and veterinary medicinal products. The draft contains the national registration of the above mentioned drugs, including the simplified procedure for licensing their wholesale and retail circulation. Determined which veterinary medicinal products will be banned for retail sale without a prescription. Thus, in the bill, most articles are greatly expanded, specify the functions and tasks of the State Veterinary Service, as provided for by international legislation. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. Registration number 2049. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u61	The question is to the reporter? The question is serious. Please sign in. Ten minutes, please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u62	Valeria, faction of Party regions. Please pass the word to Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u64	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, indeed, our committee supported this bill. This bill is really going to contribute to our primarily animal species in Ukraine, and so I'm going to make a proposal and I'm calling not just our faction, in practice, for a party of regions that will support this bill. I urge all other national deputies from other factions that this bill must be supported. At the 4th call, the people's deputies practically made a huge debt for themselves that they had not accepted it before. And the sooner we accept it, the better for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u65	Paul Gnatovich, we're going to count this as your performance, not your question. Please ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u66	Jarochuk Party, “Regions” faction. I propose to support this bill and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u67	I mean, you don't want to ask questions? Right. Maybe others don't want to ask questions. They do. Yes. Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u68	Please give my word to my colleague Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u69	Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u70	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. Sergei Sas “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mikhaylo Vasilovich, in your previous vocation, you have strongly supported the idea of withdrawing veterinary services from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. In view of the fact that agrarian politics and veterinary medicine are not exactly compatible, let us put it this way. Did you find this idea, this idea of reflection in the bill that you're presenting? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u71	Sergei Volodymyrovich, thank you for asking. In fact, I was an active advocate of this rule of law. But you remember, the President's veto was imposed, and we couldn't beat it. I think, in order to introduce this law faster, to change the law to the rules of the Soviet and European standards, we have rejected that standard. That's the first one. And secondly, the Ministry of Finance has very much been asked not to set up a separate state committee, as this is an additional cost for the relevant structures of the public authority. So we went our way, actually, so much easier to carry out this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u73	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich! The faction had considered the bill, and given its significance, and the backlog would be a positive vote. At the same time, I have a specific question. The explanatory note says that the bill does not require additional financial costs. But I've read the bill, and I'm seeing that article 101 provides for the provision of veterinary medicine professionals with housing, and it's done at the expense of the state budget funds. Are there adequate calculations and adequate funding provided in the State Budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u74	Really. Thank you for asking. There is this observation by the Ministry of Finance. I can honestly tell you, this rule would not be an unnecessary rule today in law, but given that the difficult situation in the budget and other sectors could also claim such a right, so before the second reading of this rule in the bill, i.e. article 1, sub-paragraphs 1.2 and 7 we will make proposals to exclude them from the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u75	Okay. Vitaly Yakovitch Asks a question, a faction of socialists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u76	I'm in. It's a faction. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I support my colleague Jaroslav Mendus on the necessity and purpose of adopting this bill. And I think the questions that have been asked today will be taken into account in further drafting the bill. And please consider my question as an application to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u77	Thank you. He's dry, he says.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, this active bill on veterinary medicine was adopted in 2001. It's been a while. Please tell me, what does it not satisfy today's state of development of the agricultural complex of Ukraine, more loyally, during the period of decay and decline in our livestock business? So on a day, I can't help but mention this issue on World Poverty Day. Please tell me how much this bill will contribute to at least the rebirth, maybe the tribal herd, or the rebirth of animals in general, so that we get some positive hand-sensitive, social laws we need to harmonize, you know, and these people aren't going to be fed. Can you please tell me if there are any specific calculations that this bill will give to our agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u79	Mr. Jaroslav, thank you for asking. But I'd like to tell you that veterinary medicine has no direct bearing on agricultural production, it does, but it's more on the watch. You remember the difficult situation last year when avian influenza took over southern Ukraine. And that's why we need to pay attention, first of all, to raise the quality of the veterinary service, and we're joining the International Bureau, that is, to meet their standards. I think that, in turn, it will also contribute to the production that you're talking about and, of course, it will improve the situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u80	Okay. Chubarov asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u81	I ask you to pass the word to Widow Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u82	Please. Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u83	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, our faction supports the adoption of this law in the first reading. But the Science Administration has made a number of observations, quite right, and they have to be taken into account when working on, in further work on the bill. The question is whether the veterinary service is expanding to sell meat, other agricultural products from the ground. Because now what's going on? Local authorities, well, don't promote the development of markets in their cities. An example is Kiev. The previous authorities have closed the Blue Market, and it is likely that a skyscraper will be built there. And people are forced to trade meat from the ground. How can the veterinary service here help these people who are not given space in the markets of civilized people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u84	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. Well, first of all, there must be a veterinary service. Veterinary care. First. Make certain prescriptions. It refers to the mayors of cities, or heads of administrations, who are in one city or another, that they give them the right conditions. And the others. Of course, there are bans, actually, on those citizens who sell under unsanitary conditions. It's a common issue with health care and veterinary health care. In fact, I think the first thing we need to do is promote the conditions of the product, then, of course, people won't be selling that stuff on the ground in unsanitary conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Mutz asks a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u86	Excuse me, Mutz, Party of Regions, faction of the Party of Regions. I give the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u87	For the second time, Paul Gnatovich takes the word Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u88	Paul Gnatovic supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u89	Well, I think Mikhail Vasilovich, there is no doubt in your conviction that this bill should be supported. You've convinced all the national MPs. And I think it's also voted by the opposition, the more our coalition supported the committee. Well, to conclude, I would like to reaffirm that this law will really benefit Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u90	Please, the last question of Maybeard. He's refusing to ask Maybeard? All right, have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u91	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, Ribuk had to speak from the committee. He's on vacation. I also want to provide information that the committee in general has supported and asked to vote first on the basis and in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u92	I see. Are there people willing to comment on the draft of this law, to participate in the discussion? Please write down who wants to speak. Three men were enrolled. That's why we give them. And this was recorded by factions, of course, by three men. And the MPs want to make a statement? Please. Together, I think we'll be in at about three, fifteen minutes. Please, Poljančič from “Our Ukraine” faction. Then the Scybinethic. I've announced the Pole. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u93	Dear friends, today this bill was considered on the faction. Clearly, some clarifications need to be made. But the faction in general will support this bill and, given that Ukraine's aspirations to be a European co-author, this law, the bill allows us to introduce some of our veterinary requirements to European standards. Therefore, a great request is made, to support and vote on the bill, and to take it as a basis. So I ask you to support this bill, because there are appropriate standards and requirements that meet the requirements for Ukraine's entry into WTO. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Instead of the Scybinetsky of the Julia Timoshenko faction, Lukyanchuk speaks. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Lukyanczuk, faction of the "Julia Timoshenko" Dear colleagues, the draft legislation on veterinary medicine proposed for our consideration aims to improve the regulatory regulation of this sector. The project will legislatively strengthen the development of veterinary medicine in two main areas, namely, strengthening the role of State veterinary control and supervision, and supporting private medicine. The bill is one of the acts to ensure Ukraine's entry into WTO and to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the requirements of European legislation. However, he needs serious work because he has some flaws. As noted in the conclusion of the Institute for Scientific Research of Private Entrepreneurship, the project has a, it resembles a more general position on the State Veterinary Service. It should therefore be further developed in the following situations, namely the requirements for veterinary quality and the safety of animal food products, environmental protection in the course of sanitary and preventive measures. The bill also contains a number of legal flaws, namely, article 20, which completely copies the contents of article 1, paragraph 17; chapter 15, devoted to the responsibility of individuals for medical offences, does not take into account all kinds of legal responsibility and does not determine the composition of offences. Paragraph 26 of the first article introduces such a concept as the State Department of Veterinary Medicine, which is a system of administrations. I think it is appropriate to provide for a separate chapter in the law dedicated to the ministry. Dear colleagues! The bill is urgent for the time being, and the faction of Yulia Timoshenko proposes to support it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Bondarenko has the word from the Party of Regions. Sulkowski? For the third time, he advocates the support of the law. Please. Tell your colleagues it's veterinary medicine, not veterinary medicine. Or they can't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! The draft Ukrainian Act complies with international requirements for the activities of the State Regional Veterinary and State Border and Transport Authority through the establishment of a clear system of standard and selectively extended cross-border veterinary and health control of goods. The individual articles set out the requirements for standard cross-border veterinary control, which provides for the inspection by border state veterinary health inspectors of public veterinary facilities and supervision on the basis of the examination of accompanying documents, the inspection of cargo and the analysis of the country of dispatch. Sample veterinary and health control is carried out periodically under the relevant programme on product safety through extended control, i.e. a complete set of laboratory studies will be carried out periodically, which will greatly simplify the handling of cargo, reduce the time spent on it and the cost spent by the operators. In addition, articles on cargo requirements for goods imported into Ukraine or transported through transit have been provided. Procedures to be applied if an international veterinary certificate is not acceptable. Limitation of imports into Ukraine and transit due to an outbreak of a particularly dangerous disease on the list. in Ukraine's origin, or transit. Reinforcement of state veterinary control and surveillance in import and export operations will result in adequate epidemiological support. Dear colleagues, I once urge you to support this bill, it will really benefit Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u98	Thank you. Matthew has the word from the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u99	Thank you, Communist faction, Valentin Matthews. Dear colleagues, in general, having noted the positive aspects of the bill, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to article 99 “Veterinary practice”. In part two of this article, I quote: “State institutions of veterinary medicine, hospitals, offices, sites, pharmacies, warehouses, laboratories, etc. may be privatized in accordance with the law.” What is it? That everything that is now ensuring the performance of the tasks of State control of veterinary practice and medicine will be transferred to private hands. Can we agree on this when the state remains only the National Research Institute of Veterinary and Feeding Additives, the Scientific and Control Institute of Biotechnology, the Institute of Laboratory Diagnostics, Zone, Interdistrict, Republican and Regional Laboratory of Veterinary Medicine. That's it. So it's practically going to lead to a loss of state control over this important area, and you and I have been particularly familiar with it lately, especially in the outbreak of avian influenza. Therefore, the Communist faction suggests that the bill be drafted, particularly very carefully again, to look at this article, article 99 of veterinary practice, and then just to re-examine the bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u100	Teeth, please, Mikhail Vasilovich. He will be followed by Korsakov from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u101	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill is significantly expanded compared to the current Ukrainian Law, and has been adopted before, “On veterinary medicine”. It specifies the functions of the State Veterinary Service according to modern requirements. The bill pays particular attention to regulating the production and circulation of veterinary preparations, substances, food additives, premixtures, animal feed, and veterinary medicine. International requirements include state registration of veterinary medicinal products, food additives, premixtures and ready-to-food, including simplified procedures, requirements for licensing their wholesale and retail circulation. What type of veterinary medicinal products should be sold according to prescriptions. Fully defined are requirements for the production and circulation of veterinary products, feeds, and other products. There is a need to keep records of the use of veterinary drugs and medications. This will allow them to be monitored for proper use in animal treatment, as well as for the remainder of animal raw materials. The expanded functions of the State Pharmaceutical Commission of Veterinary Medicine will also be implemented in accordance with international requirements, with the introduction of an annual plan for the monitoring of residues of veterinary medicinal products and other pollutants in animals, animal products and feed. This, in turn, will prevent residues of pollutants from coming into animal products and expand their markets, including those of the EU. I ask all deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u102	Korsakov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u103	Please give the floor to Panasovski Oleg Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u104	Panasov Oleg Grigorovich, please. How does this bill work in terms of energy? He won't speak, he refuses to speak. Does Kalashnikov want to perform? Well, it's not his profile, so I understand. So we're done talking about this project. And I'd like to determine how to vote, how to view this bill. The conclusions of the discussion are brief. We must bring the veterinary medicine law to international standards, and this is a condition for Ukraine in this sector of law relations to have no comment when entering the World Trade Organization. Do you need to speak up? From the government, please. From socialists. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to announce to the government that the government generally supports the bill, but subject to its drafting and removal of the bill of rules, in particular article 101, which imposes additional budgetary burdens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u105	The government's position is clear, yes. And the point is that the question of national MPs, particularly Yaroslava Mendusi, was that the articles that put pressure on the budget should be removed. And make it a purely functional law. I think everyone will agree. So I have reason to vote on the draft law to take it as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Please, there's a vote. For -388. The decision of the Supreme Council was adopted in this regard. I would like to refer to the drafters of the Bill, Michael Vasilovich Gladys, please speed up the preparation of this project for second reading in such a way that we will accept it definitively in the next sessional week. But again, please. Prepare well. If you prepare earlier, you can do this sooner. But in order to avoid any claim that the Rules are being violated, 14 days are not allowed to be read and so on. Yes, the decision is made. Thank you. The draft Law on Small Hydropower is being considered. Here you have two projects on your hands, and as far as I've been informed by the authors, Alexander Olegovich Kravtsov agrees to support the second project, which will report to the head of the committee on nuclear policy and the fuel and energy complex, the nuclear safety of Vladimir Kostinovich Bronnikov. And in that case, if there's no objection, we're going to look at this document. Please, Vladimir Konstantinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexanderovich! The estimated energy potential of our small rivers is at least 3 billion kilowatt-hours per year. This is a guaranteed supply of electricity to more than 50,000 families throughout the year and mostly rural families. Until the first half of the last century, energy was used actively, but the hygintism that affected the industry had halted the development of small hydropower. As a result, rivers grew, wet and watered, dams were indisposed, sometimes causing emergencies of local importance. The budgets of the rural councils do not have sufficient financial resources to clean up small river dams and hydrostations. Currently, Ukraine is living in a global energy crisis and life itself requires us to use renewable energy sources for the maximum possible. It also calls on Ukraine and the European Charter. The European Energy Charter that we have ratified. This bill proposes by amending existing legislation governing electricity and privatization to create conditions under which incentives for the rehabilitation and new construction of small hydro plants, dams, incentives for riverbeds, flood reduction will undoubtedly improve the country's environment and energy security, especially for the rural population. The essence of the bill is: it determines that a small hydraulic power plant is a GES of less than 20 megawatts, which means it can sell electricity on its own and at contract prices to its consumer and pass the wholesale market. At the same time, it can also sell electricity to the wholesale market at the established wholesale market price. It is also envisaged to allow the sale of small hydropower plants owned by utilities into private hands and to build new small EGCs through private investment. The bill was discussed at the round tables held by the TEC Committee and was supported by the Government, supported by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and did not result in a change in electricity tariffs, but provided new jobs in the village and in the Ukrainian industry. The Committee requests that Bill 1222 be supported on first reading and adopted as a basis. In finalizing this bill, the second reading will take into account everything new, which is in Bill 1230 and the committee on the TEC will present you with the amended bills, which, in terms of the meaning of draft 1230, are slightly different from that bill. But it is the same: to give the economy incentives for the development of small hydropower, to provide leverage for the use of small rivers for the benefit of the people, and also to ensure Ukraine's energy independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u107	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. On the question. Wait a minute, I'll see how much. Well, please, 10 minutes, Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u108	Gorbatuk Anatoly Alexiyovich, Party of Regions Has the bill discussed the question of how to address the issue of wind power, which is also produced in areas?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. We have a special bill on the development of wind energy. It gives certain preferences to the development of wind energy. This and wind energy in Ukraine is generally evolving. This law relates to the fact that the next renewable resource is the hydropower resource of Ukraine's small rivers, which, as I said, solves this problem up to 3 billion kilowatt-hours. The Law, the Committee on TES works, in principle, on the so-called green tariff, on green electricity, how to create a system in the country so that all the renewable energy available in Ukraine, all the non-traditional sources, are as involved in our population as possible. This work is going on, and in due course it will be reported to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u110	The question is asked by Jacob. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u111	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u113	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine". Vladimir Kostunica, I have two questions for you. You just answered the first question, you touched a category like the green tariff. Because unlike Project Krawtsov, your bill says nothing about this norm, and do you not think that in the second reading we should write it as a general European norm where you and I want to go. And the second question. Now there's a little energy called a target supplement that makes non-competitive energy small for energy. Don't you think it's necessary to take off this targeted allowance not with the Cabinet's decision, but with the bill, and perhaps with these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u114	Thank you for the questions. Green tariff is not introduced into this law for the simple reason that it provides for higher electricity prices produced by a source that uses non-traditional energy. And that is, of course, the total cost of electricity, but it gives some preference to the moral rights of the consumer of this electricity. I said that the bill was still ahead of us, where green tariff issues would be addressed. It is, in principle, already in the Supreme Council. But we do not bring it into the hall because it needs further refinement, understanding as if in our circumstances a poor economy were to realize it. Second, with regard to the allowance. We've read about it, and at many meetings with hydropower specialists, hydro-builders' associations. We figured if.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u115	Vladimir Costinovich, give him a chance to finish his opinion. Clearly, he did not realize that the Rules provide for the same time, or minute, for questions and answers. But he needs to, let him finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u116	No tariffs are required. The wholesale market tariff is sufficient for small GES to function economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u117	Thank you. The platypus asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Costinovich. The city council, housing and utility supported your project, and I think the faction, including, but is there any provision in this law, we tend somewhere that this energy should be about 1.8 times as green tariffs more expensive than the tariffs that exist today. Does this legislation provide exactly such an incentive for the development of small electricity as an increase and how many times is the increase in the price of this energy?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u119	Thank you. I responded to the previous question and said that the law did not provide for a special increase in existing energy tariffs for small EGCs. We are investing in this tariff, and that will be enough. By comparison, you may be confused that our GES sells peak electricity at the cheapest price, that's a nonsensance. And we're going to sell it, we're going to sell it at a wholesale price. In fact, at a price average between nuclear and thermal power plants, it is enough for small GES, small hydropower, to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u120	Bugger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u121	Anatoly Bugaec, faction of the Socialist Party. Vladimir Konstantinović, your opinion on where to take a little thermal energy to the power of the energy blocks, well, let's say up to 20 megawatts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u122	Small energy up to 20 megawatts, it is not subject to a large electricity law and every power plant is capable of creating such power plants for its own needs. And that's the electricity bill. With regard to their entry into the wholesale market, of course, if it raises the price, it is a separate issue to consider. I'm not ready to tell the whole future. This is the case of the supplier, the owner of this small GES.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u123	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u124	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Well, we were interested in the question that our colleague had asked in advance, and we would very much like to work with you on the first reading of the bill and find room for a little thermal energy. With such reserves so far in store for coal, with the potential of producing equipment for these plants, with such enormous potential to generate electricity at all, and with the gas situation that we have so far, I think that we would need to develop a strategic line here that would allow for State energy security. Therefore, we are ready to cooperate, let us work together on the second reading, if it is accepted, to finalize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u125	It's a deal. Maybe we'll go to a new wider law, but I'm ready to work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u126	Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u127	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Kostinović, it is my previous colleagues who have already raised this issue in relation to the whole of small energy that is relevant today, especially in the context of energy conservation. And I wanted to ask you this question about your bill, please tell me how you predict how much energy is going to go up to the energy market from small hydropower plants as a result of the operation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u128	Thank you, that's a very good question. The projections made by the hydropower association said that the introduction of the law would, in fact, speed up the development of small hydropower, as this would be beneficial. Most importantly, this electricity will enable direct contact between consumers and producers, which is always beneficial. And we believe that in the course of the next ten years, including???? Carpathian interest by 90 will already be used, and I understand that one hundred percent is as unattainable as in Europe, as in Austria 90 percent will be in ten years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u129	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear reporter! Indeed, the problem that applies to both bills is extremely important in both bills is the mass of positives. Indeed, the problem is strategic for our country. But the draft changes are changes to the Law on Privatization of State Property, and in particular article 5, which gives the right to exclude objects that are not subject to privatization other than small hydropower plants. So the point is that they're allowed to privatize. Dear colleagues! We're probably not very good students, because our own story, our own experience, doesn't teach us very well. I'd like to remind some people that in their time, they were privatized by the archetypes that happened, and we know you. We have a little mass problem. So we want us to have problems here, too? So the point is that we have a denial, a warning about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. With regard to large GES. The GES of Dnepre, the GES of Dnietra, the GES of Bug, of course, cannot be discussed. It's not just energy security, it's just the security of the party and we can't transfer it to private hands. With regard to the small EGCs that are on small rivers, on ponds, on ponds there. It is established that this issue is all in communal ownership. And let's do the second reading, and let's do the second reading, so that we can do the best we can to protect ourselves from what you're talking about, and on the other hand, to find investment to make real money for energy security, for ecology in rural councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich, please sit down. Shall we discuss it? We will. Then, with your permission, let's continue for 15 minutes to finish this question, and then we'll call it a break. Please write it down from factions. Now, please, from the national MPs. Please, 15 minutes. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of the Regions, The Immortal, gives the word of Matthew. Panasovsky, please, gives Miroshnichenko the word Panasovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, you have a very important bill No. 1222 for industry and country. Hydropower is one of the priorities of Ukrainian public policy, Ukraine has signed the European Energy Charter, has assumed responsibility for the implementation of hydrotechnical planning for the future and the ideology of renewable energy sources and the preservation of environmental balance. It should be noted that there are real opportunities and resources in Ukraine to increase the production of renewable energy and to significantly reduce the impact of technology on the environment. Ukraine's potential hydropower resources are estimated at 45 billion. Kilo hours, including the technically sound, well-founded potential of large and medium-sized rivers of about 19 billion years. A kilo of hours, a small river of about 3 billion. A kilo of hours, there is an average annual generation. The efficient use of the capacity of small rivers in the future can generate almost 7 billion tons of electricity. A kilo of hours is equivalent to the replacement of about 2.5 million organic fuel savings. Tones of conditional fuel. Not using available resources and opportunities, not luxuries, but more precisely irresponsibility. However, the development of small EGCs, as one of Ukraine's forward-looking fuel and energy complexes, despite their low cost, relatively rapid redemption and economic feasibility, is hardly reflected at the legislative level. So far, there are no conditions at the legislative level to stimulate the development of small energy, which exists in countries in Europe with significantly less hydrotechnical resources. The bill addresses key challenges in the development of small hydropower and addresses the cost-effectiveness of small-scale rehabilitation projects. The bill is expanding the potential of attracting non-State investment in the rehabilitation of small EMUs, which is a positive development, given the lack of investment resources in electricity. Support for the small hydropower sector allows for the efficient use of special natural resources, especially in western Ukraine and in the Carpathians specifically. The Task Force on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security recommends that the bill be adopted on first reading as a basis. This bill is supported by Mintopanergo, Minprompolitics, Minfin, Coalition Council. Please support this bill, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko Faction “Our Ukraine” to prepare Bulby Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u135	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. First of all, I wanted to thank the authors of the Bronnikov and Kravtsov Bill for actually introducing the current bill. “Our Ukraine” in its electoral programme has declared support for small energy and, therefore, by demonstrating the priority of national interest today, we will support the bill in the first reading. Not only is the problem relevant, but it is more than mature and mature. In addition to the above examples of relevance, I would like to give you two more examples. Consider this figure. In the 1960s, there were about one thousand small GES working in Ukraine. Today, there are some 70 small GES working in Ukraine. Apart from the ecological, economic signs, it's also a big social wound on the body of Ukraine, it's a ruin, it's a danger, it's a occupation, it's a upbringing. Obviously, from these points of view, we today need to look at this problem as a solution. Second argument. According to European Union standards, the energy balance should be 12 percent, no less so-called green energy. Ukraine now has about 7 percent. The potential of a great year is realized?????? 90 percent, only 10 percent, small. What are our proposals for a second reading bill? Obviously the concept of this bill, and here I am answering Mr. Cibenk's questions, it has to be clear that the state has no funds, so we have to focus on the preference for private business. And that's why we don't have to be afraid here, because the more local authorities don't have that kind of money. The other one. I asked Bronjikov a question, and once again I ask that before the second reading, the bill would have a green tariff, which is 1.8 to the average price of thermal power stations. Otherwise than this preference, we're not bringing private business there. You might also think about removing a target supplement in this bill. Both first and secondly, we can commit these costs to a private or other type of business to invest, not to eat, and in this way we can stimulate a faster pace of recovery of small hydropower. And about the remark, the warning to the government. It's good that the government has supported it, but I'm reading government figures, and he hasn't even done an elementary analysis of the small river situation. We have between 3 billion and 7 billion declares government potential today. Obviously, the government needs to go back to this problem, at least to study it essentially. In general, once again, we support the Bronnikov Bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u136	Bugger? Yes, please, from the faction. Prepare Petruk, Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u137	Anatoly Bugajec, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Small hydropower is time-tested reliable electricity generation technology. Unlike large EGCs requiring strong dams, reservoirs, large areas of flooding, small EGCs use running water with minimal effort and costs. Their benefits are well described by the rapporteur, but a sharp increase in electricity production at large thermal, nuclear and hydroelectric plants has led to the virtual elimination of small GES. Today, the reconstruction of old, destroyed and stopped stations must be considered a priority, which will require a minimum of material and financial costs. But the resurgence of small energy, as well as the implementation of the entire energy strategy, due to the lack of a clear regulatory framework, a lack of money and a number of other reasons, is virtually nothing, although there are not bad design, appropriate scientific design and production bases. Only Harkovsky Turboat is now able to organize small turbines of any kind, of any type. With regard to projects or drafts of the Small Powers Act, the first two projects are largely repeated and should therefore be consolidated into one bill and adopted in the first reading with further elaboration. Secondly, I think it is necessary to disclose and legitimize the current concept: small hydropower, i.e. hydroelectrics with a capacity of between 5 and 100 kilowatts, considered to be microGES, a capacity of between 100 and 1000 kilowatts, a miniGES, and a capacity of between 1 and 20 megawatts, as stated in the draft law, are small GES. Thirdly, it is necessary to prepare either another Small Heat Energy Act or combine small thermal energy and adopt a comprehensive Small Electricity Act. Moreover, today small TECs are already working, especially in the steel industry, chemical, sugar plants and so on. And lastly, it is thought that the amount of the so-called green tariff that is discussed is 1.8 too high from the vacation price of thermal power plants. Such a tariff is a complete violation of all the advantages of small hydropower. These issues should be taken into account in the process of finalizing the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Mikola Petruk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The best electrical scientist, of course, Oleg Lazko, please. Then Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u139	Adam Ivanovich, thank you for the good recommendations. Dear colleagues, according to standard phrases on creating effective conditions for the development of small hydropower in Ukraine, there are actually very different intentions. Let's see what laws and what changes the drafters propose. For example, in article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, which states in paragraph 2 the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. The authors of the law suggest that small hydroelectric plants should be excluded from the list of sites that are not privatized, that is, from where improvements will be made and the development of small energy is known only by the authors. The other one. Changes proposed in article 19.1 of the Law on Electricity This article discusses the establishment of a special protection regime in the area of the restricted zone and in the controlled area of hydroelectric facilities. The authors of the bill, which we are asked to support today, suggest that we do not extend the position of this article to small hydropower plants, that is, without any protection and anyone who wants to do so. Do you know what this bill is? We were told once, when we were being privatized, that we needed to bring a private owner there in order for these institutions to work effectively and for people to get the resources and how it ended, we know: price increases, energy deficits and so on. This is exactly the same with the adoption of this bill. In fact, the faction of the Regions in this bill shows its intentions to privatize other things that have not yet been privatized. This includes polygraph companies for privatization in the next year's budget project, as has already been privatised by the Network of Skrnigs. And as it turned out, there's no bookstore in Kiev except the market in Petrovka. Now there are small hydroelectric power stations. They will be followed by large atoms, hydropower stations. And there will be those who want to privatize them. Yulia Tymoshenko's block strongly opposes the support of this law, because the consequences of the adoption of this law are one of increasing the cost of electricity for Ukrainian citizens, resulting in an increase in tariffs, and money will go back to private owners' pockets. Please, I have informed Block Tymoshenko's proposal, and I hope that Hall will support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u140	Sergey Matvienkov gives Stephen Bulby the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The previous speaker spoke so well of the impossibility of privatizing small hydropower plants and explained that we have experience, such a negative experience of privatizing the skynergo. I agree with him about the archergo. But with regard to small hydropower plants, I think we should think about how to regenerate this source of cheap electricity. In any case, there are problems, of course, and problems, as proposed in the bill. Not all of them, in my opinion, will be resolved. I also think it's important to consider that if we sell electricity on different terms, then it will be necessary, this situation will be used by those who can benefit from it. But that's not the point. I'm worried about something else. The drafters propose not to extend article 19/1 to small hydropower plants. It is indeed a matter of establishing a special security regime in the area of the restricted zone and in the controlled area of hydropower. I don't think you can do that. Why? Because then we're sitting here leading to total uncontrolled use of this particular territory. Even though there may be less erosion of the shores, there, and so on, all of this can have a great impact, a significant impact on the environment. And the main thing is that no one will be responsible for the negative consequences. So in the second reading, it will have to be ruled out. And finally, I also have doubts about the possibility of an immediate, immediate process of privatising these hydropower plants. I am convinced that rent can be interesting for those who have money and are willing to invest in the development of small hydropower. And so I think it's premature, I repeat, so the proposal to exclude them from property, government property that can be privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting, I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of draft law number 1222, which is written by our colleague Vladimir Bronnikov. Based on the base. Please vote. For -283. Decision taken. The factions, please. You can see the factions on your own. Areas 181, Block Timoshenko 4, “Our Ukraine” 65, Socialist 29, Communist 0, non-fractional four. Dear colleagues! A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, because we're going to need your votes now and, accordingly, your hands. Let us turn to the section “In summary procedure”. So I'm asking you to support the initiative so that the next questions today will be conducted in an orderly manner. Please vote. To 231. Thank you. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings is under consideration. Registration No. 1096. Yes, the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u144	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, respected defenders, law enforcement officers, and professional lawyers! It is well known to anyone who is involved in or has otherwise faced with the issue that the fundamental flaw of the current Criminal Procedure Act remains the absence of a clearly defined procedure for judicial review at the stage of the pretrial investigation in the course of a criminal offence. As early as 2003, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had recognized that it did not meet the requirements of the Constitution of section 6 of articles 234 and 236 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which made it impossible for the court to hear complaints of an investigator, a prosecutor on grounds and grounds, and the order of criminal proceedings against a person. The recognition of the above-mentioned provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act as unconstitutional allowed Ukrainian citizens to sue for criminal offences. The practice of judicial review of such rulings has repeatedly emphasized that even at the deliberation stage of the criminal case there is often a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, but the procedure and procedure for the prosecution of criminal offences so far have not been found to be reflected in the current legislation, and the only source of law in the matter is in fact the decision of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, but it cannot solve the problems in practice. Such a state of affairs impedes the full and effective protection of the constitutional rights of citizens at this stage of the criminal process. I'll give you a list of the most systemic problems in practical activities on this issue. Uncertainty in the judicial control system over the stage of a criminal offence in which it is committed leads to an undetermined circle of criminal cases and the extent to which they are committed and the order in which they are carried out. The absence of a clearly defined procedure for judicial review of complaints of a criminal offence order significantly reduces the effectiveness of the court’s protection of citizens’ constitutional rights. Individual infringements of the CPC's criminal law requirements often lead to violations of the rights of applicants who have filed claims and raise questions about the commission of a criminal offence and the impossibility of informing the persons concerned about the material underlying the criminal offence actually violates the principle of the competition of the criminal process and makes the party's decriminal right to raise the issue of criminal liability for the presumptively unreliable report of the commission of a crime, falsification of evidence, and the criminal responsibility of law enforcement officers. Furthermore, the bill also proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, since the current criminal law provides for criminal liability for pre-existing illegal criminal prosecution, but this rule does not provide for an effective restraint system for the prevention of illegal criminal offences and therefore we propose that the authors propose to use criminal responsibility for a pre-law criminal offence because it is well known that these are the very stages where mechanisms for the permanent violation of human rights and for the execution of political or economic orders are in place. [[Article 372]] In particular, the bill is designed to amend this. To comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision and to bring Ukraine's CPC into line with the Constitution's rules and with Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of the protection of fundamental human and civil rights and freedoms. It is legislative to establish in a law that regulates the introduction in criminal matters of a criminal case of judicial control over the criminal offence. Set up a clear procedure for the prosecution of complaints against the decisions of the authorities of inquiry, the prosecutor of a criminal offence. Implement the principle of the competition of the parties at this stage of the criminal process. To guarantee the participation and procedural rights of interested persons in the case of a given category, including the victim or the person on whose application a criminal case has been committed. Set out the specific features of the appeal in the case of such complaints, establish responsibility for the abuse of the party to the State’s charge and the public authorities for their rights in the matter of complaints of a criminal offence order. Introducing a real opportunity to resolve the issue of criminal liability for knowingly unreliable reports of crime and falsification of evidence. The adoption of the bill will not require additional costs from the state budget. As a result of the committee’s consideration, a decision was taken to support the bill as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. No questions asked. It's a simplified procedure. The committee reported both the author and the head of the subcommittee, it was all in one person, the committee's opinion he said. Dear colleagues! Be careful we will now register for the performances, two for, two against. But there'll be another little recording procedure. Anyone who wants to speak for should press the “pro” button, the one who will act against” is pressing the red “against” button. Do you understand? Not the "record to speak" button, but the voting buttons should be pressed. Who "for" is the green one who "against" is the red one. There's a recording of the performance in the discussion, please, who's "for" green, who's "against" the red buttons. Yes, there is no “against ” one. Then, please, the Smoking Faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, to prepare Kendzior. Easy, wide profile master, please. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u146	Lásko, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” supports the bill now proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council and not only because Svetoslav Olijnik is a member of our faction. The question is far more important than what we are considering. This is about protecting Ukrainian citizens. Because all of us are witnesses when, in the Kuchma regime, and even today, criminal cases are often violated by fact, they are not possible because a case is violated by fact, they do not allow a person to charge him with a trial, to restore his rights. And here's the fact that a year and two and three can be investigated, and a man is in a suspended condition like a hook. When something needs to be gained from it – "twirl" the case – is activated by the following actions. When an agreement was reached, they either received the property or handed over the stock or found out any other question, they closed the case. These facts can be closed and opened twenty - five times a day. I know an example. There was this Pacuk, the Deputy Head of the SBU, and the Attorney General closed the case three times and opened the case within a week. The same applies to criminal cases against members of different factions. The faction you do not take is Deputy Sovkovic, who knows how criminal cases are being committed illegally, is the deputies of our faction against whom cases have been committed. That is, it is vital that a person whose interests are affected by a criminal case be able to bring an immediate accusation before a court of law. There is, indeed, another danger when the prosecution’s accusation may cover up attempts to avoid criminal responsibility. Because we know what our judicial system is, that it's often blind to both eyes, and it only sees what needs to be seen, and it's very important in the future when that happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u147	Shorted procedure for two minutes. Thank you, what she's blind is bad, but she's not deaf and she hears what they say, that's the problem. Kenzior is passing on, please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill is indeed aimed at strengthening the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms in criminal justice. And I'll tell you in detail, from a legal point of view, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine provides for the possibility of pressing charges against the court only for refusing a criminal offence. This position of the current Criminal Procedure Code has been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. On the basis of this decision, the courts of general jurisdiction take action against criminal charges. So you and I need to regulate this issue. There is also a point to the bill. For example, the author suggests that the rulings be appealed to both local and appeal courts, which violate the principle of judicial review. Next. If the court finds that the case has been committed illegally, he himself refuses to break the case. This is not a court function. Well, third, with regard to the amendments to the Criminal Code, which introduces criminal responsibility for illegal offences, for the known illegal criminal offence, there are rules in the Criminal Code that allow for the criminal liability of investigators, prosecutors, and persons who illegally violate criminal cases. The “Our Ukraine” faction, which I represent, will ask you to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Protection of Human Rights in Criminal Procedure, and the registration number is 1096. For 404. Copy that. Thank you. No, as a whole, there are some serious comments here that the Scientific and Scientific Administration has made. Let the committee work and regulate these processes. Honorary colleagues, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies in the Electoral Region, registration number 1076. The author of the legislative initiative, based on 99 articles, asks that it be withdrawn. But that takes a decision from the Supreme Council. I ask you to vote for the removal of this bill. For -368 The bill, as proposed by the author of the legislative initiative, has been withdrawn. A draft Law amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the right of religious organizations to use the land on a permanent basis is being heeded. Registration numbers 1101 and 2260. The authors, reporters are our colleagues Strtović and Turkinov. Please, Vladimir Stretovic. None. Turk's Alexander Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! I don't think it's a secret that most people here associate themselves with a religious religion or anything. And there were times when atheism was a state policy. Today, more and more Ukrainians feel that without God’s blessing neither business nor political nor any other is simply not resolved. Moreover, many of our colleagues during the election campaign spoke of support for one religion or another, and most of them generally supported all together. That's what this is all about, dear colleagues. What's the problem? Today, there is no question of how to settle land relations with everyone, I emphasize, with all the religious communities. I emphasize, with everyone. I mean, there's no exception. Sadly, this issue was not settled during the adoption of the Earth Code. And churches themselves, religious communities today do not have the right to have the land in constant use. What's the serious problem, my dear fellows, I'm addressing everyone on the left and on the right, and I'm asking that we don't look at this issue because of the prism of some political sympathy, antipathy. The problem is that this year, the benefits that the churches had in paying for the land are ending. In the new year, all religions will pay for the land if we don't accept the bill as commercial structures, that is, the land will not be owned by a monastery or owned by a commercial bank. And they're all going to be put in conditions where most churches are just going to go bankrupt. First of all, I was approached and told that, for example, Moscow Patriarchate representatives were opposed. I want to give you statistics, dear colleagues. That the majority of the lands that are in use, I emphasize, in the use of churches, exactly belong to the Moscow Patriarchate. For example. 4,590 hectares per day In second place is the Kyiv Patriarchate. Then comes the Greek-Catholic Church and so on. I mean, as for other Protestants and so on, that is, they're less than two percent of everything when they're taking land masses that belong to churches. I don't know what sects you're talking about. It's in the bill about the next thing. About the next one. All officially registered religious communities, all officially registered. That is, when the community is working in an antisocial direction, when its activities do not correspond to the Constitution and the Freedom of Conscience Act, such a community should simply not register or register such a community in order to be cancelled. What's more, what's different is the bill that I proposed. He foresees, unlike my colleague, another serious solution to another serious problem. That's right. It is predicted that in the event that the community has been dissolved or that its right to engage in religious activities has been officially abolished, the land will return to the State. It's very important. In order for religious communities not to be able to speculate on the land, to resell the land, and so on and so forth. That is, only the religious community is given free of charge to the church, the monastery. All others in the event of their reregistering, in the event of their cancellation, that is, the land returns to the State, not the community that has registered a religious union. This is very important, fellow believers, so that there is no attempt to engage in any form of religious activity or use. the assignment of land. The only one, Adam Ivanovich, is a very serious question, because all the faction leaders have received letters from the Council of Churches, where they all go: Orthodox, Protestant, Muslim, or all churches. And everyone came to you. And I talked to my regional colleagues from other factions. They're proposing to work out the bill and bring it together. And in order for this to pass, I am ready, Adam Ivanovich, to pass on this question and then have already submitted as before. a new bill. Why am I doing this? Dear colleagues, this is not an important political prerogative, it's not an important party, it's still important to protect the religious.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u151	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is an offer, but she is, unfortunately. It's not part of the Rules. So we can do the same as before, but here's another suggestion that we can pass on the consideration in connection with passing a single bill. In large numbers, look at these two bills, there's no difference between them. These are bills that speak one at a time of the same thing, that is to say there is no work to be done, because the Stretovic bill and the bill that our colleague has just reported are also talking about. But what will be the will of the hall? I'm going to put this proposal to the sessional vote. A proposal from the Committee on Culture. Well, we're going to start with the question of whether we're going to consider it today or not, and if we're looking at it, then we're going to be making committee proposals. So, who's in favour of supporting the bill's author, Alexander Turkinov, and moving the matter forward? I'd like to make a statement. For – 120 This is what I have to say is that we have a wise Parliament, it has not given me the right to break the Rules. Thank you. So we'll talk about it. Please sign up. Two for, two for, and two for, and once again, I remind you who's "for" green, who's "against" the red button. And before that, the recording of you watching and preparing, and I now give the floor to the head of the committee on agrarian politics and land relations, Bebelzenko Valerija Fedorovich, please, the opinion of the committee. And on the board, you see who should be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u152	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, reviewed draft laws amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the right of religious organizations to use the land on a permanent basis. The laws of Stretovic and the Turkinov People's Deputy were discussed. The bill introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Turkinov, is an alternative, as you already know, to the bill tabled by the National Deputy Stretovic. They repeat each other’s standards of amendment to articles 93, 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. In addition, the bill introduced by the Turkinov People's Deputies proposes that article 141 of the Ukrainian Land Code should be supplemented by the rule that the cessation of the activities of religious organizations is the basis for the cessation of the right to use the land. At the same time, the bill does not address the issue of the destination of such land. The deputies were invited to complete the proposal made by the Turkish People's MP “for the construction and exploitation of religious buildings”. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality proposes that the bill be rejected. Our committee is proposing a bill introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Turkinov, to send for work. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u153	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Yeah, two for us. Onechuk, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for the can. Please, Mikolo Vasilovich, the mike of the month, please. Turn Onischuk's microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, in fact, the faction signed up for the bill. And we have no intention of supporting it. So either later, or Kenzior will perform, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u155	Well, we've managed to hear the committee's opinion. Please, Oleg Lazko, Yuli Block Timoshenko, also a microphone from the site. Yes, it's Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u156	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I give my word to my colleague from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko Olga Bodnar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u157	Of course, you couldn't say no. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! I ask you very much to be careful about this law. It's not about what someone there is solving for a particular religion, it's about in a broader way, it's about the morality of our society. Unfortunately, it is a society that has become a bit succinct: we serve mammoths, not morals. Let's go back a little bit to the way a normal civilized society is supposed to live. There's nothing negative about the bill, the land for the sects, that's what I'm answering, it's not going to be transmitted in any way, because the sects just don't register according to our legislation. Only those religious organizations that are legally recognized are registered. The earth will be placed exclusively under the cult buildings and under those buildings that will be used to serve them. There are letters, support, starting with our orthodox churches, to support this bill. Because, in fact, this situation is about to happen when our churches are forced to close. Come small, people have low wages. Now we're going to cut their pensions, now we're going to cut their salaries even more. Churches will be closed, no one will care for our fate. We do not know what the future will be like, but we do need to think about it. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations supported the Stretovic Bill. This project, by Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, was also discussed there. I want to tell you that if you compare them with each other, the Turkinov project is more perfect, because it not only foresees the extradition of this land to permanent use, as permitted by our Earth Code, but also foresees its return to state municipal property when these church religious organizations cease to exist. That's why I'm more perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lapin, the faction of the Regions. Get ready for Santa Claus. There's no Lapin? You can pass if you change your name. But since this is a performance from the factions, please, Yuri Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u160	Bolderev, Regions, Committee on Culture. Committee on Culture. Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word. Honourable MPs, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has rejected these bills. This is despite the fact that in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the majority are members from our Ukraine and the BIT. But we, by the way, voted by the factions of the Regions along with them. The reason here is simple. The fact is that, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, the new State of Ukraine has opened wide doors to all so-called non-traditional denominations, which often represent a gathering of several citizens who have registered a sect in a foreign, distant country and who have come here to mislead our citizens. In order to separate religions, in order to leave a truly traditional religion for us. Like the Orthodox Church, the Greek-Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Muslim communities, the Karaim communities, which have been here since the middle of the first millennium of the new era. In order to allow the Lutheran Church and other traditional religions to work here, a new bill is being prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the representatives of traditional religions, which will resolve this issue, the question of the separation of religions. Therefore, we understand the urgent efforts of some gentlemen who represent very unconventional confessions for our country, such as Mr. Turkinov, who, as you know, is a minister of the non-traditional religion. So let's not make a mistake today. Yes, we must try to adopt a new law on religious organizations as quickly as possible and to resolve, including land issues as quickly as possible. Indeed, there is very little time. But you can't open it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u161	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u162	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I really agree with the speaker that we should be careful with the bill. What Is Faith? Faith is a state of the soul, a state of survival of one person or another. What, though, are religious structures? And the religious structures are the structures that try to use the state of one soul, one person or another to solve some of the other moments in this structure. Let us consider whether faith, the condition of the soul, the earth, is needed? Of course, it's not necessary. And for those institutions, you need land? Of course you do. Therefore, it is logical to reject this bill and leave the believers in peace, their internal affairs and let them solve internal matters according to the legislation that is, in accordance with the land law that exists today. National deputies should not lobby for one religion or another. That's why I'm also addressing people's MPs: let's act within the framework of legislation, within the framework of the Earth Code, and let all of our religious institutions that are created, and very many of them, a few dozen of them, so that they don't have to have an interfaith fight. Let's leave them alone. So socialists for rejecting this bill and I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and not go back to such bills in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now. Dear colleagues! According to article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, if the factions did not take part in the discussion, they have the right to speak to the factions on the basis of the reasons for the vote. So please, Jaroslav Kenzior “Our Ukraine” one minute, then Catherine Samuelk. Kendzior microphone, please. KENDZOR M. Jaroslav Kerndzer, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. The position of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has just been published by the deputy chairman of the Committee of Jury Baldwins, and indeed the committee has considered this bill thoroughly enough, and we have found that the bill is not particularly harmonized with the Code of Earth. We talked about how if the conversation were about religious communities, not religious organizations, it was possible to change decisions, as they say. So the position of the committee is already well known and the faction “Our Ukraine” also tends not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u164	Thank you. Microphone, Katerina Samylik faction of KPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u165	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine advocates that we adopt a new edition of the Law on Religious Unions. This is a basic law that has to answer absolutely all questions. Today, sadly, he is not needed. First. The other one. The religious issue in our country is rather delicate. And the sadness that our nation is experiencing today must, of course, stop us from taking unthinkable action. Our state is a multifaithic state, we see that today, with the introduction of Christian ethics in the schools of our nation, it leads to the fact that the representatives of different religions lead their song, so to speak. And that's why I think it's absolutely right if we put all our efforts together to work out a new code of law and adopt it here in the session room. This will be a better gift for believers in the traditional religions of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u166	Thank you. The word for replication is Turkish and we will be determined. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u167	You know, I'm surprised by the presentation by a representative of the region, who may actually have some unconventional preferences. As far as my religious beliefs are concerned. I can say that I refer to the Church of Evangelical Baptist Christians, which was created in Ukraine more than 200 years ago. I mean, it's the same traditional, religious preference that applies to me personally. But, dear fellows, I'd like to tell you something else, which is, I'm sorry, it's just that some ugly speeches are just shocking. In particular, I want to address the socialists. I spoke to your leader, Frost, who said that after meeting with the leading church leaders, he would have two hands to uphold this law. And you're acting, and you're carrying, I'm sorry, that achnya is embarrassing and immoral. What about this vote? I promise we will send all the confessions from the Moscow Patriarchate to the Kiev Patriarchate to see how you support them in your promises of MPs, and how it happens, in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would ask, however, when we talk about our beliefs, especially, the religious use of religious codes that say we shouldn't give such strong estimates as some people do. Let's be calm, let's not rip it up, please. Yes, a faction of socialists was mentioned by someone, Stepan Bulba, please, for a minute, but no.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u169	I won't mention the last one, I just want to ask him this question. To which part of the Ukrainian land does he have the right as a representative of that very traditional religious organization. I don't think we can share Ukrainian land right now, because every community is even religious, let alone a church, will determine its exclusive right to one area or another, one territory or another. There is no way that this bill can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u170	Thank you, dear fellows, for exchanging thoughts. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of draft Law No. 1101, author of National Deputy Strtovic. I'd like to make a statement. To - 125. Unadopted, the law is overruled. And Bill No. 2260, the author of Alexander Turkinov's legislative initiative. I'd like to make a statement. To 120. In this way both bills have been rejected. A draft Law amending Ukraine’s Land Code on the powers of district and district administrations in part of government administration is under consideration. Registration No. 1134. Author of the initiative, National Deputy Kril Igor Ivanovich. Please be prepared by Valery Bevanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to change to a certain extent the order of transfer of land, which is owned by the State, to private property. I think you'll all agree that the earth is our wealth, and if we could objectively conduct an assessment of our land and transfer it to private property so that it's objective, not subjective, we would be a very rich state. Unfortunately, the land is sold and very much is subjective in this process. So the bill proposes to change some order of action. The essence of the bill. The land, in principle, is divided into two parts, which have already been privatized and which have not yet been privatized. Those who have failed to privatize, it also divides into that land that is owned by territorial communities, that is, communal property and that which is not yet demarcated and is owned by the state. So in both of these cases, there's a different order of transfer of land to ownership. If a communal land, or land owned by territorial communities, is transferred to property, the decision is taken first by a city head, according to which documents are prepared and then taken to a session by a local council of national deputies and adopted by deputies, and the order for the transfer of land to state property is somewhat different. The decision is taken by local administrations. In that situation, the head of the administration makes a single decision. I am far from thinking that all these decisions are unobjective and that there is some form of abuse. But I believe that if this is the case, some subjectivity is involved. So the bill proposes another, let's say, one level of decision-making is proposed to agree with the district administrations. During the consideration of the bill, there were a lot of questions on the committee, and in principle, I agree with that, because the issue is complex and important, it can't be easily solved. I agree with our colleagues that there may be another subjectivity here, perhaps it is worth making a decision in this situation to be taken by the local council of national deputies. So, in principle, on the basis of this, I would like to go into my own draft decision, which I proposed in the first reading, the bill in question, and I would suggest that I send it out for re-reading, to take into account how many observations were made during the consideration and it will then be more logical and, let's say, we can thus remove all of these subjective points that are present today in the transfer of state land, land that is in state ownership to private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Please sit down. Yeah, it's a short-term procedure. Please, two 'for', two 'against No. Green, red buttons. Writing to the performance. Yes, please, Mikola Onichtuk, “Our Ukraine” - for. Get ready, Jadusa. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u173	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The speaker actually justified the problem, referring to the fact that, unlike the fact that the decision to give land to use is taken by councils, that is, local governments, where the procedure is more legislatively clear and defined, and that it is based on the collective will of the community governing the land, and it makes the right decision. The situation of land from foundations, let's say, a state, a state-owned form of property that is based solely on the arrangements of the heads of administration, cannot be considered to be perfect and one that will ensure proper social control over this process. That is what motivates the national MP’s legislative initiative, which is worth supporting in itself. However, we need to be objective that the national MP himself has justified the need for a more detailed study of this subject by proposing ways of dealing with it that would take into account modern political and legal realities. So it seems that it would be possible to support the National MP's proposal to support the very idea of the norm, at the same time offering and giving some time to finalize the bill in order to enter into a sessional discussion with a more perfect legal design.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u174	Yes, please. Jaduzha, Party of Regions. To prepare Oleni Bodnar. Microphone, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u175	The bill proposes to amend the provisions of the Land Code, which defines the powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local State Administrations, District, District, and District Authorities to conclude that land is being removed free of charge of privatization and so on. I would like to say that, as a result of this bill, district government administrations are given the functions of agreeing on the issue of the granting and sale of land of state property, the decisions of which are directly placed on district government administrations in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 of part 1 of the project. For this reason, it is important to note that such a novelty is even more bureaucratic in the issue of land allocation. And that's why this bill has to be rejected as one that leads to bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u176	Please, Olena Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u177	Please give the floor to the national deputy of the Lukyanchuk faction, Ruslan Valeriyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u178	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe that making these changes will bring more harm than good. First of all, the project does not regulate the reconciliation procedure and mechanism, who and what time period these tasks and tasks are to be carried out. The Earth Code sets a monthly deadline for consideration of the issue by RDA and the MDA. Additional acceptance of the Procedural Procedure of Procedure of Procedural Procedure. It's different. According to practice, the issue of the issue of consent will be decided in private by a person who is interested in transferring ownership or land use. So this person is going to have to see and hand out documents and she's going to drive from the area to the district center, where breaking down the district officials' thresholds will have to pay extra costs to solve her positive question. So the complexity of the conciliation procedure will only increase corruption in this area. Third. The problem is already sufficiently regulated even by valid legislation. Section 1 of article 33 of the Ukrainian Law “On Local Government Administrations” indicates that the district government exercises control over the activities of district governments. Therefore, if land ownership or use raises suspicion in the district administration, it may cancel decisions taken by the district administration regarding the allocation of such an area. Thus, the bill does not meet the stated purpose and contains many shortcomings, which cannot be accepted on the basis of it. In fact, it needs to be rejected. That's why the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko suggests that the bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u180	Thank you. Yes, please, the position of the committee, the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Valery Fedorovich Bevezenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u181	In view of the foregoing, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be rejected. In addition, I would like to inform you, honourable national MPs, that a committee on agricultural policy and land relations has been set up and approved by a working group on the development and harmonization of Ukrainian land legislation that meets the requirements of modern Ukrainian society. The working group consists of seven deputies representing the main political forces of the Supreme Council, personally: Bebilsenko, Melnik, Jaduha, Selchenko, Szcerbán, Lukyanczuk, Požinov. The head of the group is Bevanko, head of the Subcommittee on Land Relations. More than 20 of the country’s best professionals — the State Commission, the Cabinet of Ministers, the RNBO, the Kiev City Administration, scientists, and practitioners — have been involved in the development and harmonization of land legislation. I suggest you join the working group through your representatives to prevent incorrect changes in current land legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u182	Thank you, please sit down, yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. In the course of the discussion and the committee, according to the committee's decision, we have two proposals. I'll be the first to put the committee's proposal to the vote. The committee proposes to reject the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code concerning the powers of district and district administrations in part of the administration of the land. Registration number 1134. Please vote. For 342. The bill is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party - 172, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 112, Our Ukraine – 3, Socialists – 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 5. A draft of the Ukrainian Act “O nadra” is under consideration. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] Registration number 1309, summary procedure. The author of the Michael Danielen initiative. Get ready for Calchenko Walleria.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u183	Adam Ivanovich, Kalchenko Valeri Mikhailovich, fell ill. I will be both rapporteur and co-rapporteur from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u184	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u185	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. To date, I am introducing amendments to the Nadra Law. For those who are not the first to be convened, they know that these changes have already been made and have not been voted on. What is the meaning and substance of these changes that are being proposed to date, which, by the way, have been considered by our Committee on Ecology, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, and these changes have been adopted unanimously. What's the point? The essence is that the Ukrainian Nadra Code is amended into four articles: articles 7, 8, 29 and 30. These changes in principle, in terms of today's legislation, are streamlining that all the benefits that have been imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers for use so far must be passed on by the Supreme Council in a legislative manner. I mean, you and I need to define a list of these benefits with regard to the use of nadr. To date, article 12 of the Ukrainian Constitution indicates that Nadra is the property of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, the use of nadram can't be sold or transmitted only for use. And, in view of the current use of these numerals in Ukraine, the budget lacks money. This is literally a specific example. To date, Eastern, South-Eastern Ukraine is experiencing very serious freshwater problems. I'm going to give an example of a company like Coke, which uses water every year for three million dekaliters. And in this year's budget for water, there were two bracelets. That's two tenths of a liter. Today, Appendix 10 of today's draft budget for 2007 provides for a double increase of only 4 bracelets. That's four tenths of a kopeck. If you transfer it to money, it's all for use. To date, the same Coke pays 30-40,000 bracelets for the use of this water. According to current data, the wells are already in the reserve layer. And almost today, we're pulling fresh water out of the city of Kiev. And if it goes any further at this rate, what will we then leave to our future generations and our children? These changes to the law provide for an increase in fees and a shift of emphasis on the adoption of legislation for the use of resources here in the Supreme Council Hall. What else does this have to do with anything? This is also due to the fact that, unfortunately, the political situation often arises that the four-year term of office was replaced by several Governments. And the allocation of these benefits, the introduction of these benefits, has changed with each coming of the new Cabinet of Ministers. Passing a decision through the Supreme Council would allow more careful, more sensitive treatment of the use of natural resources. The amendments, the amendments to this Law on the Nadra, will hardly involve, but not in practice, any additional budget allocation. And the fact that this will bring extra money into the budget is absolutely specific and accurate. I don't know, there's a ten-thousand of what the user's getting. On the Committee, this decision has been supported and I ask you to support these changes, which will enable us to maintain our momentum for the future generation and to add additional income to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u186	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The entry “for” and “against” goes. Please. Green, red. Red is love. And green is emotion. Yes, please, Zjirov, the faction “Our Ukraine”. Chechnya get ready. Dear colleagues, you've got it. Those who wanted to sign up. Again. Do not resist. It's a wise system. I repeat, two factions are made for the record, no matter how much you push the buttons, only two representatives of the factions and two representatives, no matter how many buttons they push, are determined who is “against”. So it's all right here. That's one thing. And so to the point of being a little bit. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! And in order to encourage you a little bit, in order to encourage you a little bit, let us, if you don’t mind, continue this morning’s meeting until we consider all the questions. Is there any objection? Who's in favour, please vote. For -381. Thank you. Please, Zhijenov, Chechetov. It's called the Mijinova Mikhaila Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u187	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. This question is really, really important, and we've been looking at it on factions, and on the committee, and of course we support this issue, because the bill is only proposed by Ukraine's laws to fix benefits for the use of nadrama. This will actually increase the budget, contribute to a more rational use of nuances and to the interests of the state and the people. I wouldn't want to stop in this situation, let's say in those examples, except for coke, there's a lot of them in Ukraine when the government was giving us some kind of benefits and taking away our nadar. In this regard, I ask all national deputies to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u188	Please, Chechtev, the microphone is out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u189	Please give me the word of Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u190	Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u191	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! Bill 1309 on the amendment to the Ukrainian Code on Nadra in part of the nadra plateau cannot be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine because it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. What is it? The point is that this bill, as reported by the previous reporter, is about creating pay for the use of nadrama. But article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which speaks of the authorization of the Supreme Council and gives a comprehensive list of such powers, does not provide for a plateau formed by the Supreme Council. At the same time, article 116 in part three, which deals with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I will quote it: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides financial, pricing, investment and tax policy”. Accordingly, this order is now in force, in the current Code of Nadra and, in principle, it cannot be changed by our laws, because the Constitution is the law of force majeure as the Basic Law. So, dear colleagues, I invite all of us to reject this bill, but at the same time, the problems and ideas that the drafter has expressed are worth studying and settling an additional bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor, there are factions that have not signed up for the speech, but they want to say so. Please, Tomenko microphone, one minute, Zybenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, we fully support the Minister of Transport, Mikola Rudzkowski, because he is one of the co-authors of the law and his colleague, Mr. Danilin, because it is said that I did not want us to play here in the Constitution, in the Ukrainian people and in his name the Supreme Council determines the sole fate of the nadr, of the earth and so on. What is involved in this wise law? The fact that the benefits cannot be given by officials in the Cabinet of Ministers, and the legislation and benefits must be debated in the session hall so that the Ukrainian people can hear why one firm should not pay for water and spill what and the other should pay. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that we still have to work actively on the budget here. We support this law, this is a two-month term. We need to change the current budget, abolish all the benefits to ministries and departments, ensure that, in fact, Ukrainian nudity does not work on the commercial structure through officials and the Cabinet, but work for the Ukrainian people. I think that a member of the government, Mikola Rudzkowski, will help us and we will actively guide our activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u194	Please, Peter Cibenko. Then from the faction of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u195	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of the previous call initiated the process of political reform in Ukraine, and then began the process of transition from the Presidential Parliamentary to the parliamentary-presidential Republic. I think that the bill that we're looking at with you right now is in the wake of the changes that are taking place. It is aimed at strengthening the functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including in the determination of wages for nudity and orders, the government's authority for the drama of Ukraine. And I am absolutely convinced, and my colleagues, that this is a step in the right direction. Therefore, the Communist faction will have to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u196	Yes, please, Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u197	Matvienkov, socialist faction. Dear colleagues! I'm going to give you a private example, but it's still characterized by this situation. State nadra is the wealth of the entire Ukrainian people. And they must work for the entire Ukrainian people. Today's tariff system, plus the privatisation of Krudprom, has led to four factories now, with 5 per cent of all iron ore deposits, on the verge of stopping. A few numbers to understand. At the GOC, I buy a $27 concentrate, and the metalworks are offered $60. Count the cost per deposit. In the external markets, it's worth about $36. After all, are we going to regulate this process, or aren't we?Oh, my God! Only direct losses amount to 350 million, let alone a profit tax of about $440 million at the beginning of the year. I mean, what does that say? What we need in the State today is a clear system of control over State monopolies and State raw materials. The faction of the Socialist Party will therefore support this law and insist on the creation of a gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u198	Yes, dear colleagues, communication is over. The only thing I'd like to pay attention to is, I looked, unfortunately, at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that there were observations here on the constitutionality of this law. But the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster were identified by the Preparatory Committee for the first reading of the bill. What would be interesting would be the Committee's opinion, which is the question of the Constitution, that is, the Committee on Legal Policy, but it's not. In view of the discussion and the emphasis that I am once again drawing your attention to the speech of the Peacekeeper, who cited the relevant violations of the Constitution. I'd like to make a statement. The vote on the adoption in the first reading of draft Law 1309 on the amendment of the Code on Nadra, on the use of nadra. For – 231 Adopted in the first reading. I ask that the committee prepare for final adoption to see. There's going to be the Chief Legal Authority here, and the committee, now by factions, the Committee of Legal Policy on Constitutionality, so that we don't have a veto and so on. By faction, please: “Regions” – Zero, “Julia Block Timoshenko” – 116, “Our Ukraine” – 62, socialists – 31, Communists -21, non-fractional – one. Well, if we had at least three hundred votes, we could do it in general. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on mandatory public social insurance is under consideration. Registration number 1266. The bill's author is Hara Vasil Georgievic, please. Prepare for the Sukhoma Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, in the process of working, the legislation that we have adopted on State social insurance has identified certain shortcomings that we propose to address these shortcomings by amending them. The bill is very simple. The first, the purpose of the bill, is to increase the full collection of insurance contributions for insured persons who are not insured or paid insurance contributions to the accident insurance fund by individual managers. The second is the protection of the same workers who are not insured and do not receive any assistance from the State in the event of an injury. He suggested, in effect, that certain legislation should be brought into line that was contrary to the previously adopted law on general government insurance against accidents at work. It is proposed to amend the Code on Administrative Offences, establish the liability of natural persons who do not have the status of entrepreneurs but who use employment and do not take account of the Social Insurance Fund, and therefore do not pay insurance contributions. And those who are such entities that are recorded but do not pay insurance contributions and therefore their employees do not have social protection in the event of injury or loss of health from working conditions. Second, in order to bring the same law into line, it is proposed to amend article 31, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Recovery of the Insolvency of the Insolvency of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity Act. In part, in the second, at least second, those debts owed to the Social Insurance Fund for an accident at work should be calculated by paying the insurance contributions that the enterprise is required to pay. There are comments to this bill, which we have tabled together with colleagues from our faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. They will be taken into account in the preparatory process for second reading. Please support and adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u200	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Social Affairs and Work, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the substance of the proposed changes to the law in force has been reported to you by the drafter of the bill, Ukrainian MP Hara. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour unanimously proposed a bill on number 1266 to be adopted as a basis. Our decision supports or agrees with the same recommendation by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They support the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, Minsk, Basic Social Insurance Fund, Legal Policy Committee. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour agrees with the observations, especially the Ministry of Justice, and will prepare for the second reading a bill without any significant reference to the fact that after the second reading we did not have a veto on this bill, which I think you will all understand, especially for the people who are dealing with those regions in the districts where there is great trauma, because the proposed changes will contribute to the inadequacy of the budget of this Social Insurance Fund. It will contribute to improving the quality of social services, timely compensation to victims of harm. You probably remember how long in the late '90s the regressors came with protests because there was no reparation. Now we, the drafter of the bill, are justly in line to compensate the fund if there's an enterprise after the bankruptcy and, if there's debt, the creditor's debt is second, because now it's in sixth place. You remember how much trouble we had when an industrial enterprise, in a state of bankruptcy, easily converted to a tax return, did not pay people back, not that. Debts, even though people had execution letters on their hands. There was no return from regressive lawsuits. That's why this bill is ours, so to speak, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let it be halved, but partly compensated to those people who have never received their compensation for their lost health, neither they nor their families. Thus, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour stresses that the entire debt of the victims to production, that the members of their families, who, in order to take effect by this law, did not compensate businesses, institutions, organizations, organizations for the material and moral damage caused by health harm, was paid by these enterprises, institutions, organizations, and, in the event of their liquidation, without the right to inherit the Social Insurance Fund from accidents. Therefore, with a view to establishing and restoring social justice, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-17-m0.u202	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Is there no one? Thank you. Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the issue of compulsory public social insurance. Registration number 1266. Please be supportive. For – 408. Thank you. No, it could be the whole thing, but the committee also asks the Chief Executive, let's settle the issues that are at odds there and then we'll take it as a whole. Yes, let's go to the inclusion section in the agenda and make a decision. It is proposed that bills 2129 and 2129-1 be included in the agenda and that bills be considered today to amend some Ukrainian legislation on non-agricultural land. The drafters of the bill are the national deputies Timoshenko and Pritika. Please identify yourself in the agenda for today’s discussion. For -153. Bills are not included in the agenda. Again? Well, please. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Who is it to go back to voting for inclusion in the agenda? Please make up your mind. To - 173. Yes, the decision is not made. The bill is not included in the agenda, so we cannot discuss it accordingly. So, your honors, the order of the day, as planned for today, we've exhausted you. So we don't have to hold an evening meeting. I'd like the committees to take this opportunity to work on the committees. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Work starts tomorrow as usual at 10 a.m. Good luck.
