ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Take your seats, put your cards on. Focus. Enable logins. People’s deputies are being registered. [[10:03:21]] There are 398 national deputies registered in the hall. I'm announcing the start of the morning session. I mean, we're going to open a second session of the Supreme Council today. And the opening ceremony was attended by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] The Acting Head of the Constitutional Court, the Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting. Representatives of the diplomatic corps, the public, the media. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call is announced openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u2	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the MPs, and today I would say it's a lucky day to be born to Sergio Leonidovich Kuzmanka. Let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] You know, literally the day before yesterday, there was a disaster and the first Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Alexander Ivanovich Bondarenko, went out of his life. There is a suggestion to honor his memory with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u3	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the floor is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u5	Dear Victor Fedorovich, distinguished deputies, government officials, diplomats, invitees, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, dear TV and radio audiences! The second session of the Fifth Assembly Parliament has its features. I'd like to draw attention to some of them. They are first challenged by the fact that the legislative body of the state is starting to work in a new system of government relations, namely in the parliamentary and presidential form of government. It's a new form for us that we don't have experience and even less tradition. During the session, we need to lay the foundations for the interaction between the branches of government, within them, the interactions between the central authorities and the local authorities. At the same time, we need to address the need of society to exercise transparency of power, to involve citizens as sources of authority in the development of democratic rules of conduct that must become mandatory for the institutions of power, the various spheres and the links of society of every citizen. Clearly, this is responsible for all of us and, of course, an interesting period. To solve the complex problems that will arise under such conditions, we need to trust each other, help and support each other, in fact, to respect the position of the various authorities, their representatives, and find the best options in each case. I know that both the President and the Prime Minister, the vast majority of MPs, members of the government, representatives of the state administration of different levels, are well-configured. This means that the difficulties will be overcome and the actions of the authorities will bring about long - awaited changes, improve the lives of people, and strengthen the authority of the Ukrainian State. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. What would the Supreme Council do in this direction? The first is to establish a system of interaction between government and parliament. In the past, there is a practice of a relationship between them as opponents. The relationship, mutual dependence, and mutual responsibility for the outcome of the government’s action make it a matter of principle to organize matters differently. This is particularly true of the parliamentary coalition. Because every success or failure of power, government in particular, is an asset or a property of coalitions and parliament in general. In the near future, we need to demonstrate an understanding of this need for the work of the Conciliation Council, the Coalition Coordination Council, Parliamentary Committees and Government Committees, the cooperation of representatives of these branches of government at local level in the branches of government. In this regard, much depends on the activity of the opposition. Obviously, over the coming weeks, we need to legislate on its status, the cycle of responsibilities and responsibilities, instruments for their implementation, so that the opposition can be convincing to the electorate and help to improve the activity of the authorities. It should be out of the rule: “To the opposition that the authorities do not doze.” At yesterday's meeting of the Conciliation Council, it seemed to me that all political factions of Parliament were in charge of such a system of interaction as between opponents, not between enemies. The other one. Ensure that planning and legislative work is systematized. This theme contains a series of separate but interconnected directions. They must find reflection first in the legislative work plans. The time has come to complete the adoption of the requirements of the Constitution and legislation. It cannot be reconciled with the fact that during the eleventh year of the operation of the basic law, many of its standards are accepted by declarations. Because the references made there to the law are not backed up by the laws themselves. They're gone. Because the previous convening of Parliament was certainly not very pervasive in this sense, but the predominance of the rights and interests of the President's institution has hampered the adoption of laws. The absence of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a clear confirmation of the irregularity of such a situation. If such a lack has been in any way obscured by the role of the President, now the need for this normative act is acutely felt by the members of the government themselves, the heads of ministries and departments, the president and the prime minister feel. This is, of course, a parliamentary debt. It must be returned within months or weeks. The previous draft of the legislative work plan, which is under consideration by committees and factions, is open to all deputies. It may seem that insufficient attention has been given to the development of legislation based on the Constitution, because it is also about the deficit of laws on all-U.S. referendums, about the President, about legislative acts, about temporary commissions and commissions of inquiry, about the State Property Fund and a lot of other topics. When working on the draft plan in committees and factions, this flaw must be addressed. Under new conditions, more than ever, we need to provide legislative support to the Cabinet of Ministers, acting in advance. There is a need for greater initiative by the government and its ministries. With regard to planning as a subject of Parliament's attention, it is a legislative plan for a session, monthly planning and a forward-looking plan for Parliament's office. The latter would be in line with the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers program. Today’s government has taken up its responsibilities much later than it was supposed to, which is why we do not have a program of its work for today, and the need for it is urgent, including in connection with legislative planning. I'm focusing on this particular detail because the adoption of the program as a indulgence for a year of government work in a new relationship makes no sense. Government stability is not guaranteed. They're in harmony, they're interacting with Parliament, they're in power efficiency at all. Third, on the quality of the legislative work. We are becoming more and more accustomed to what is being prepared, which is being considered by Parliament, mostly by amendments to the laws in force. This is naturally the extent to which the legislative field is saturated with normative acts. It is important, however, to see that changes are made because new conditions require that, or because imperfect, the laws themselves are not brought to completion. Looks like the second reason's coming down here. Hence the need to improve the quality of laws. I'm not giving out prescriptions. In each case, there are specific features, but it is common for all to require quality and prior design in conjunction with the chain of executives and those who will make the most use of the new law. Without hard work on projects each, I emphasize, every high-quality MP cannot be counted. I insist that this situation be taken into account by Parliament's committees when planning their work. Another condition is the public hearing of draft laws on the ground, the involvement in the law-making of the general public, the local authorities, especially when normative acts concern social problems. I ask the committee heads to take this need into account in their plans. Four. There was always a need to strengthen Parliament's control function, but now much better conditions have been created to take it into account. This has to do with many circumstances, including the expansion of the powers of the Court of Auditors, which will soon mark its ten - year anniversary. Audits carried out by the Court of Auditors, its findings, should be subject to examination by the committees of profile. As a result of such discussions, there should be a number of proposals that have already been worked out to improve the lawfulness of referrals to the Office of the Attorney General or other institutions. No document of the Court of Auditors may be left without an active response. Of course, the materials of the Court of Auditors should also be deeper, more reasoned, and more timely, that is, highly professional. So let's say we're talking about organizing government purchases. The general information of the Court of Auditors on the shortcomings in this area will lead to a comprehensive consideration of the problem, which you have on your hands. Because it's a multibillion dollar budget, it's a massive corruption environment that needs to be hit legislatively and organizationally, and you can't put it off. Its order is the economy of tens of billions of people's money, it's the improvement of people's lives, it's the order and morality of the state. Parliamentary hearings should be used to strengthen the control function. Convinced, most of them need to be organized in committees, sometimes in exit meetings, only the most important subjects for society need to be discussed in a session hall with the participation of all deputies, so that the outcome of the hearings will be clear to all concerned citizens, and the measures taken by authority will be sufficient to improve the lives of people. In this sense, for example, it would also be useful to hear about the state and prospects of energy supply, the conditions of supply of energy, tariffs and prices in the utilities of transport. It's painful for the population and for the production of subjects, you need to look at them immediately, keep them in the loop, keep them in the loop, keep them in the loop. This is the only way to win their trust. Fifth. The autumn session is always focused on the budget; something new in this respect should not be invented; only the procedure envisaged by the Rules, including the article vote, should be fully ensured. At the same time, we need to move towards a gradual end to the bad tradition of amending the Tax and Social Budget Act. There will be heated discussions around this need, even in the government - parliament relationship, but the establishment of a single legal order belongs to us as we begin today’s session. I believe that with that understanding, they will be able to prepare the budget, both government officials and deputies. Six. All authorities must work together to ensure trust in the law enforcement system and in particular the judicial system. Without talking about democracy, human rights mean little. The practice in Ukraine has made the task a major challenge and should therefore be counseled. The return to law, to law, to transparency in the activities of law enforcement institutions must be demonstrated constantly. I'll get it. It's the only way to build trust in people. I'll just give you one example. On September 16th, there will be six years of crime -- the murder of Georgia Gongadze, the hero of Ukraine -- the title is posthumously assigned to a journalist by President Viktor Yushchenk's decree. We should not say that virtually all of Ukraine’s citizenship knows the essence of the matter. Play still comedy with the investigation, take him down on a mannequin(?) It's embarrassing, but it won't work. The prosecution's court in this case is a disgrace to themselves and it's obvious. Hence, there is a need to hear specific information about the state and prospects of completion of the investigation. The draft decision on this subject has been registered. Let us be objective. This led to democratic transformations in Ukraine. The essence of the investigation is the indicator of our democracy for our fellow citizens and for Europe. As long as there are no court decisions, justice cannot be discussed in Ukraine if there is no decision in this case. To all the authorities, it must be remembered that it became a personal one because George Gongadeze awakened Ukraine’s value of life, a positive shift in freedom of speech, is Georgia’s first credit. Some former high officials are involved in the crime in various ways, and they should also receive legal evaluations and so that no one doubts the legal nature of these assessments. It's not about collecting accounts or misdemeanors, it's about the right in general and equality before the law. I know what I'm talking about, because I have the ability to speak this way exclusively, because on November 28, 2000, a famous statement was made from this rostrum. But it's been six years. We can't keep timing the investigation and the court. We can't, we shouldn't. Seven. Parliament’s obligation is to continue and develop political reform, particularly with regard to the place and role of local governments. I think it's positive that the President and the Prime Minister are not indifferent to this problem, but the heads of district councils and heads of state administration are not indifferent. Clearly, introducing changes in the power system is a process and a complex one, and it will require clarifications, adjustments, balance of power, harmony of power. Parliament is focused on taking careful care of all legislative initiatives relating to the improvement of the system of power and government. One more thing to consider is that making changes requires a reasonable amount of time. Simply put, reform cannot be made a goal of itself, but it cannot be delayed from becoming a talk, a stop to social development. These and other issues were discussed with the heads of committees and factions of parliament, with government officials. They are largely read in the text of the Universal National Unity, the content of which should not be forgotten to all who participated in its discussion or signature, for it is a political task for the authorities. But there are still specific practical tasks that have the greatest concern for people who appreciate authority. I do not deliberately touch on employment, pay, city and village affairs, education, medicine and culture, pensions, the prospects of young people, women and motherhood, pensioners, veterans and disabled people, children of war and homeless people. The same is true of WTO, EP, other aspects of international cooperation. The situation in Ukraine is not simple. It requires constant attention from authorities, including parliament. Convinced that unity in power, openness to our politics, openness in the state of affairs assessments will help to improve people’s lives, build trust in power and state, and build confidence in tomorrow. Above that, I do not see any parliamentary tasks and I hope your support, honourable Members, all the participants in this meeting. Welcome to the beginning of the second session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u6	The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! With the transition to the parliamentary and presidential form of government, the executive power in Ukraine has ceased to be a tool for fighting between different political powers in the state. It was transformed into a tool for the service of the people. Today's government is the first Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to operate under the conditions of political reform. For the first time in the history of our nation, executive power acts as a hired force in the service of the ruling parliamentary coalition and therefore the majority of voters. At the same time, never before has the responsibility for the results of government been so personalized. Our critics ’ criticism of the political nature of the coalition and the existence of ideological differences in its subjects ’ programs are hardly a concern for voters. In their activities of authority, it is important to them how well it provides for their interests. If there is no change for the better, asking for bad work is now personal. Unlike previous years, it is possible to ensure that the actions of the President, the Supreme Council, are synchronized. The Cabinet of Ministers. The implementation of political reform is a very painful process, and the first steps of the new government have convinced us once again. Because constitutional reform places a redistribution of powers, and here we have to do very well-calculated, calculated steps. The transfer of powers is a sensitive process and must be treated with the understanding and patience that all branches of authority must exercise. We have to go through this uncomplicated path with tolerance, I'd say even delicately. In any case, the government is set up for this kind of, as it were, the tone of the process. Political reform, among other things, is a unique opportunity to create a system of effective and responsible authority capable of carrying out truly needed reforms. Among the priorities that the government puts into its programme is political, economic and social reform. These include, first and foremost, measures to eradicate corruption as the main cause of economic reform. We're going to create a transparent investment climate in the state. We'll build real and transparent tax policies, we'll create real civil codes, we'll make an independent court authority. Creating a transparent economy is one of the main tasks that we are approaching. We will also implement key reforms, such as pensions, education reforms, health care, and the essence of these reforms will be that the nation will become the center of care, not the system. We're going to change the emphasis, the principles of funding, and we're going to provide funding not for education as a whole, but for a particular student or student, not for health care, but for a patient who needs treatment. This will reduce the level of fiscal corruption and optimize spending. This is also the approach we will take in administrative reform, in government and public service reforms. In carrying out tax reform, we'll do everything we can to get the tax system to encourage the manufacturer to create conditions for transparent business and power relations. The reform of the financial system will provide the State with conditions for the development of the financial market, new financial instruments for the movement of securities. We must recognize that the value of real estate in our country, starting with large businesses and ending with normal housing, is undervalued. By recognizing the principles of privacy, we will create conditions for the capitalization of business and the valuation of property of various forms of property. Exiting the system. It will enable not only the cost but also the transparency of business. Among the top priorities of our government are the reform of local self-government, housing and utility. The problem of infrastructure development needs special attention. The coordinated legislative work of all branches of government will ensure the speedy implementation of these reforms, help overcome crises in all important areas of life in Ukraine and lead our nation on the tracks of accelerated socio-economic development. Because in all branches of government in our country, one goal is to improve the welfare of people, to improve the lives of every citizen. Our joint task, and this is our highest priority, both to the government, and to Parliament, and to the President. Recognizing his responsibility to the Ukrainian people, the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared and ready to submit to Parliament the Government's Programme of Action and Ukraine's draft economic and social development strategy for 2007-2011. The government's strategy is projected in the first phase -- 2006-2008 -- to bring Ukraine's economy back to a steady pace of economic growth; in the second, in the 2009-2011 period, languages will be created to move to a stage. the industrial economy of general well-being. The project includes defining the urgent problems that need to be addressed in 2007, the main objectives to be achieved over the next 12 months, and a list of key priorities and tasks that will enable the targets to be achieved. We should not repeat the mistakes of past years. There is a particular need to get rid of populist methods, for they are known to lead to the fact that the part of the State’s budget consumption is manifestly divisive. Social benefits increase when economic growth declines. This leads to stagnation in the economy. And as a result, internal investment and budget revenue are beginning to shrink. Our government will return to the investment and innovation model of economic development, which will ensure its accelerated growth and increase social standards accordingly. Under such a model, social benefits will cease to be, according to people, paper that is wasted every month due to the lack of commercial coverage. At the same time, they will become full - time money that will actually ensure a higher standard of living for people. It's very important that we find a common language with a domestic manufacturer. Cancelling incentives for those who were willing to expand production, upgrade technology, introduce advanced technologies, has resulted in a lack of domestic goods in the market, and replaced their goods with imports that have been widely opened by eliminating customs restraints. The opening of the internal market has led to a negative external trade balance, with an appropriate removal of government gold reserves, the basis for the stability of the national currency. Respectful national MPs, aware of the complexity of the country’s economic situation, have adopted and implemented anti-crisis programmes, lay the fundamental foundations for the reconstruction and modernization of its leading sectors. The mechanism for achieving this goal will be to restore the optimal balance between consumption and accumulation. The industrial potential that enabled us to develop in the last century is practically fully exploited. Three or five years later, the safety and security of all thermal energy is exhausted. In metallurgy, the permeability of the core funds reaches 80%, and they require colossal costs to modernize them. Thus, more than 15 billion dollars should be allocated to the first steps in the output and replacement of heat. In this situation, we intend to increase the share of savings in the economy, which will focus on renewal, modernization, expansion of production. To this end, in the 2007 budget, it is proposed to reduce the reallocation of GDP through the budget to about 30%. So there's going to be about 36 billion dollars left in the economy. This resource will generate momentum to increase pace and create a new quality of internal product plus provide budgetary state support to priority programs, restore incentives for investment projects. So we're doing the task of restoring the investment and innovation model. As a result, the economy will begin to pull itself out of the crisis and ensure a non-inflationary social growth. The increase in production will pave the way for higher wages, credits to the Pension Fund and social funds, and improved demand in the internal market. By the end of 2007, we are planning to make the Pension Fund's budget ineffective. Honorable national MPs, the important issue is the introduction of Ukraine to WTO. Our government is firmly tasked with leading our nation into the World Trade Organization because it is in the interests of Ukraine. And the sooner we complete this process, the better for our country. We are planning to enter the WTO, not in haste, but with the economic transitions that are acceptable to our sectors and the proper level of protection of the internal market. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we will introduce the principle of “privatisation – a resource to create new modern powers”. The cost of privatization will not be directed to food, as has been the case before, but rather to the implementation of serious investment projects. A solution to urgent economic problems will help solve the existing problems in the humanitarian field. Respectable national MPs, achieving the strategic goals of the Ukrainian State, must also be governed by foreign policy. To our profound conviction, the main task of our diplomacy should be to make Ukraine a nation with a developed economy, and therefore a stable and predictable partner in the international arena. Economic stability will ensure the ever-increasing strengthening of the institutions of democracy, the provision of basic human rights and human freedoms in the face of Copenhagen criteria. The civilized world does not want to build new distribution lines, including on the European continent. However, he is forced to do so, fearing the dangers of economic backwardness. Viewing European integration as a strategic goal of the Ukrainian State, the new government sees its task in the negotiation process with the European Union as a candidate, whose role Ukraine has played so far, comes a strong self-sufficient and therefore interesting to Brussels, a partner. We must also do everything possible to harmonise Ukraine's legislation as soon as possible in accordance with European Union legislation. In this process a special place will be devoted to restoring a mutually beneficial neighbourly relationship with Russia. We are convinced that this is a prerequisite for bringing the state on the path of accelerated economic development. At the same time, I would like to emphasize. On our firm intentions to ensure stable supply of energy to Ukraine and through Ukraine to the European Union. We are a reliable partner of both Russia and Europe. And we will continue to support the reputation of our nation by building an energy policy that will suit Ukraine's interests. Honourable MPs, at a time when in the Euro-Integration rhetoric of the Ukrainian side, mostly declarant slogans, should go back to the past. We should not try to convince the world of our uniqueness. It's hard to surprise him. But today, in an era of globalization and increasing contradictions between the main centres of world politics. We just have to do a lot of work based on national interests. When Bismarck united German lands, he acted exclusively in Germany’s interests, but he did not, let us say, Austria. We must do our job without exerting ourselves, without the right to rest, without the first hopeful results, to work with the stubbornness and zeal of a miner who bites the lava with a hammer to extract the coal that people need. We are able to do so because the basis of Ukrainian national character is, not the wasteland and the gossip that individual politicians suffer, but the industriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government is fully reporting on the guarantee of our successful work in concerted cooperation with Parliament and the President. And for this purpose, we have prepared the concept of organizing cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council in the system of government. The government's role in implementing its legislative initiative will be crucial. The constitutional definition of the status of the Cabinet of Ministers gives him the right at the legislative level to ensure the implementation of state policy. It should be noted that 75 to 80 percent of the laws are passed by the government itself, where there is a constant link between parliament and government. In view of this, we have prepared 42 bills, which we propose to consider in Parliament as a first priority in the context of the tasks defined by the Universal National Unity, the Agreement on the Establishment of the Anti-Crist Coalition, and the Plan of Urgent Action on coping with crises in the economy and in the social sphere. The government is also set up to cooperate with the opposition, in which a person would like to see a vigilant social controller and a constructive criticism of his actions. We see opposition as an ally, not as an opponent, but as an ally in strengthening the economy of the state, the democratic principles of Ukrainian society. Dear National Deputies! Since the establishment of the ruling parliamentary coalition and the formation of the new coalition government, the Ukrainian people have finally been given a chance to turn the page of the exhausting internal strife, and the prospect of living in a state where stability and predictability prevail, where public men in the heat of political struggle do not forget their main task -- to serve the interests of those who brought them into power. The government is ready to carry out this mission. We call on the Supreme Council, the President, all the leading political forces to support our agenda of action, we believe in success because we have no right to defeat. As the President has said, we must learn to win, so let us work together to win them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we discussed the issue and suggested that you change the calendar of the meetings of the Supreme Council, based on objective reasons, the need to prepare the final legislative work plan for today’s session, to consider other issues related to planning our work for a shorter period, and to prepare for future planning. You have a draft ruling in your hands on this matter, which is made by the Regulatory Committee. It refers to the need to use this week to work on committees and factions, working on the legislative work plan and the preparation of relevant bills. On Wednesday, that is to say, tomorrow, by the end of Wednesday, tomorrow, we will have to send our proposals to the Regulatory Committee and Secretariat not later than tomorrow, and the next two weeks, we will have to organize a plenary work. This project is on your hands. Is there a need to discuss it, to debate it, and so forth? None. I then put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please determine by vote the finals, please. [[10:45:16]] For-300 This proposal was supported by 300 national deputies. The decision is considered to be acceptable. By factions, please make public. I'll read the factions. Region Party - 185, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 5, Our Ukraine - 61, SPI, Socialist Party - 32, Communists - 21. Following the conclusion of today’s plenary session, national deputies will work in committees and factions, and the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on September 12, 2006. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed. Thank you.
