ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:20]] There are 302 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. There's a request to re-register because I can see more. Please re-register the National Deputies. Turn on the "Council" system, please. [[10:03:00]] There are 307 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, today we have 30 minutes with you to announce statements, messages and proposals by the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Dear colleagues, show me your colleagues, I'm reminding you today that the factions are not acting out of factions, but that the national MPs are speaking out of writing today. So please press the buttons, no factions are speaking today. Although they are representatives of factions, today each MP has the opportunity to express his thoughts. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Nikolainka, a faction of socialists, prepare Gerasimov. Microphone Nikolainko, please turn it on. Yes, please pass Bondarczuk on to Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, recently in view of the nearing deadlines for the formation of the Supreme Council of the Government of Ukraine, various officials have intensified their interpretation of the President’s constitutional law regarding the early dissolution of parliament with the use of media. Many prominent retired lawyers have been involved in this ungrateful matter. Not only does this not help to resolve the question of the creation of the Cabinet of Ministers in a peaceful and constructive environment but it also leads to the oppression of the unhealthy atmosphere in society, the increase of resistance among the active part of the country’s population, and the deepening of divisions in the state. In this regard, a group of Socialist MPs calls on prominent and under-known politicians, representatives of factions in parliament, supporters of the various views of the problem with the call to calm down, to stop the gathering of Ukrainian society through the media, and to impose public views on the solution of the problem. Let's not give up or add our 5 kips to the rocking of a boat, the name of which is the “Ukrainian State”. Remember, interpreting the Basic Law of Ukraine does not allow either the Supreme Council or the President, or even more so, its advisers. This right is reserved for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich Herasimov, the Communist faction. He's behind him, Chukmasov. Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We're having a tough time today. Yesterday I received a lot of calls from my constituents from Kharkiv. People are concerned about what is happening in Parliament, what is happening in the Supreme Council. "What shall we wait for?" people ask. They categorically oppose repetitive, extraordinary, return elections. People say, "We are tired. We hope that you will solve our problems, and we have sent you to Parliament. Where are your promises?" These questions are mostly asked by those members of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, who have left the room and do not want to work. I tell them Parliament is working. We have formed Parliament's governing bodies, we make the necessary decisions, but people say: "We feel that life is deteriorating in our pockets. We can't find a job, we don't have enough money today to buy milk, we've already forgotten what meat is. We were hoping you'd stop rising tariffs, as you promised. Where are your promises?" I reply that the draft agenda contains issues that should address these issues. We must go back to the law passed by the communists in the past on the moratorium on tariffs and prices until the corresponding wage is increased. However, these issues are not resolved. Why? We know that the Supreme Council has established an anti-crisis coalition. It was created by communists, socialists and a party of regions. We have nominated Yanukovic for election as Prime Minister of Ukraine. We have submitted the necessary documents to the President of Ukraine, and we know that he had 15 days under the Constitution of time to submit the relevant proposals to Parliament. Juicy doesn't do that. Today, there are threats to the dissolution of parliament. We're not afraid of those threats. We know we have voter support. We know that voters share our position and support this position. I'm talking to everyone here. I'm talking to voters who can hear us. Yushchenko is in violation of the Constitution today, he is sabotaging decisions, he is pushing the Supreme Council into the tenacity and root cause that we cannot continue our work in a constructive way, that we cannot make the necessary decisions, form a Government and consider on the merits the laws that many economic problems must solve today, not only Ukraine but also Ukraine's citizens. We cannot begin this work today. I therefore appeal to the President of Ukraine: stop blackmailing Parliament. Stop deceiving the people of Ukraine, deal with your responsibilities directly, meet the requirements of the Constitution and submit to Parliament a candidature for the post of Prime Minister, the candidate nominated by the anti-crisis coalition, Yanuković Viktor Fedorovic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u5	Thank you. Sergey Chukmasov gives the word Nikolaynko? Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka. From where? Turn the microphone on from there. He's behind him. He's got a lock on Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. I'd like to talk not only about today, but first of all about the future, I'd like to talk about the fate of our Ukrainian students, our children, our students. I think no matter what government there is, no matter what coalition there is, on September 1st, children should go to school smiling, everything should be prepared for the new school year, and this is our main task. I'd like to say that we're expecting 5.7 million schoolchildren to come to school today. 2.7 million students, even more students, are now continuing the introductory campaign, and today they're practically starting to take the midterms, because nationals have completed the introductory campaign and the techniques. We need to build up and we're going to have 500,000 children in vocational and technical schools. At the same time, I would like to address all the committees today, to address all the heads of local councils, heads of administration, to pay particular attention to the state of repairs in our schools and educational institutions. Since the local information shows that there are many problems, there is a particular problem today with conducting tenders. I ask today our committees of profile to return immediately to this subject and to remove this, excuse me, inadequacy of the law that was passed at the end of the last call, which has blocked the entire operation of all budgetary organizations. We don't buy solid fuel today, we can't buy building materials, because we have to go to print somewhere, take these documents to Kiev, etc. I'd like us to pay attention to this very, very important thing. This year we are tasked with computerizing, providing computer technology for all secondary schools. And I would also like to take this subject under special control by all the authorities. We should be saying, "There's no school today where there's no modern computer technology" and it's not connected to the Internet. There is no modern knowledge, there is no way to organize a modern process. I believe that the example should be shown by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the members of the government and the slogan of these steps should be: “The provision of home school computer technology”. I know that I gave them a computer for my 50 ’ s at my school, and now I’m going to look again for the opportunity to buy this technology at my own expense. Please support the beginning of thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs who have already done so, etc. And I would like to encourage constructive cooperation by all the political forces, quite the slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u7	Valery Gabrielna gives the word to Borschev Viktor Valentinovich, a faction of Communists. He'll be followed by Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u8	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. The crisis of power today, it's like a coma moving from the center to the regions. Today, a similar crisis has taken place in my native Dnepropetrov region. The regional council of our area still cannot begin its work, because the political forces behind the President are completely obstructing the beginning of the work of the regional council, and they are also using force. Recruitment of police personnel who refused to allow people's deputies to enter the sessional room. At this time, serious problems have arisen above the area, and today the main.Uul water supply in the Dnepropetrov region is repeatedly shut down. Dnepropetrovsk has repeatedly been excluded from water supply, and Dneprodžinsk and other nearby regions. The case was that four days later the water was turned off from the South Machine Plant, threatening to interrupt the production cycle at the plant. Today, as the Minister of Finance has assured us, we are all in good budget, but the teachers of Dnipropetrovina have gone on vacation without getting any vacations and wages. Only because of the pressure of Communist deputies in some areas have these funds recently begun to be paid to teachers. And it's all one chain. At a time when Yushchenko became President, practically the forces behind him removed other political forces from all influence on the developments in our country. Today, when there are 240 people in the Supreme Council, there is a coalition, there is a programme, there is an understanding of the responsibility that Ukraine's unity is based on how the economy will work, how our people will feel. Now, today, the Presidential Force is blocking this issue. And the problem is not in Parliament, it's in the supreme presidential power. We therefore demand that the President abandon all ambitions, fulfil the constitutional duty and soon give the opportunity to form a government that will be able to eliminate these crises both in the economy and in social life.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u9	Thank you. Mikhail Wolintz, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, will be followed by Valentin Matthews. Please, who are you giving the word to? Please, Leveko Lukyanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u10	The citizens of Ukraine, the minority of the Party of Regions, thanks to money and illegal manipulations, have become the majority, and our democratic orange majority has become a minority. In this regard, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko protestes such an immoral operation and does not take part in the meetings now until the President dissolves this Supreme Council. And now I'm going to read our round table address. “The position of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on Alexander Moroz's proposal to hold a political round table. The BUT faction claims its refusal to participate in this action. We consider the proposal of Frost to hold a political round table in the Marian Palace today, with faction leaders trying to involve the country in an open farce and an obvious imitation of the political process. As is known from classical political practice and world experience, similar round tables are held in just two cases: First, when the dispersed political forces need to be united; Second, when you have to come up with a common position to make a common point of view. As a result, our factions have completely misunderstood neither the purpose nor the purpose of the planned action. Our political team of apriorists is not going to unite with a crisis coalition. We certainly understand why this table is needed, especially Mr. Frost. He now needs to imitate at least some political activity against the backdrop of the parliamentary crisis he created. He also needs to change the image of a traitor in the image of a peacemaker. We understand why this round table is needed by several “Our Ukraine” conjunctors. They likely expect that on this round table, comrades in the regions will be awarding office rewards for the timely presence of the President and Ukraine. But the main thing is that we don't understand why the endless failures of society's round tables. We know that now all decisions on whether or not Janukovitch candidature, whether we merge Ukraine with a crisis coalition, are taken not by round tables, but by culinary negotiations. Why this shadow curve? Cover the round table and paint under democracy. Until the President decides whether or not to be a compromised parliament, all round tables, square tables or oval tables make no sense. Nor do we need any positions in a government that compromised itself. We will and will not be present.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the corresponding article of the Rules gives me the right to clarify. I'd like to make a point. The speaker of the round table is the President of Ukraine, and the Head of the Supreme Council has announced only this idea. This is an important clarification. And a second clarification. There's no crisis coalition, there's an anti-crisis coalition. Please, Matthew conveys the word Kravchenko Mikoli Vasilovich, followed by Boki to the word Popescu to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u12	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Respectable radios, televised! Dear colleagues! I would like to begin by saying that, like all MPs, I am actively communicating with voters yesterday, and today the mass of calls has been about the situation in Parliament. People today are outraged by the policy of double standards of power. On the one hand, they claim that we have everything good, that there is no point in creating an anti-crisis coalition, just because there is no crisis. Today I bring to your attention that, and you know that, but the radio audience should know that this government has already allowed 30 billion holes in the budget. It's not covered in anything, and it's moving on to a new government as a legacy. Today, inflation is not 10 per cent, as they say, but it is 14 per cent. To date, prices have been rising disastrously and hence the increase in tariffs, utilities and so on. This is the policy of double standards today, as well as that of the political power that the representative spoke on behalf of the BUT today. It is today that the electorates have given me documents that allegedly Julia Vladimirovna, as Prime Minister, has withdrawn from the single energy systems that were under her patronage 7.5 billion bracelets. I have duly formulated and will announce this parliamentary request for a tax inspection on Friday. But if so, then the cross must be placed on this political force. 7.5 billion and 30 billion holes in the budget. We'll find out who, how and how that money was written down. The next call they've been asked to report to the BUT faction is that the 10 mines they're supposed to have in the town of Chattersk are abandoned today, and they haven't been paid in two months. That's what upsets people. The policy of double standards exists today. Today, at the round table, it will be said that we have everything good in the country, that miners pay their wages on time, that teachers don't make up schools, that they're supposed to be paid their holidays, and so on. It's all a lie, it's not true. That is why I have asked our representatives today, who will be at the round table, clearly to ask the President whether he is stopping the games and deciding on the appointment of Yanukovic as a representative of the anti-crisis coalition, or whether we should move to an active phase of our relationship with the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u13	Thank you. John Boki gives the word to John Popescu. To prepare for school, he gives the word Lazko. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u14	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Highly esteemed colleagues, high-ranking voters, although influenced by certain destructive political forces, and above all by BUTO, some local councils are taking provocative appeals about the dissolution of parliament, instead of the same councils, where most have political powers started with BUTI, they are addressing us, members of the Anti-Crist Coalition, in order to help us solve socio-economic problems. I'd like to draw attention to those appeals that came to me as a national MP from the Cherniewsky region. Thus, the Montenegrin District Council is aware of the decisions taken regarding the increase in natural gas prices, the electricity from the first year on the provision of additional financial assistance from the state budget of Ukraine to complete the construction of the pipeline of the Watchtower. I'm reminding you that on December 31st, 2004, the Yanukovich government has allocated 5.7 million for these needs, but the Timoshenko government has only given 10% of this, and for today, we're again being asked to solve this problem. In addition, we are being contacted today from the Novoseltsky region, asking us to make decisions and help with the repayment of 820,000 dollars for the joint venture of the name Suvorov, which was spent on the construction of the underwater gas and distribution station in the village of Podgorny. It's too much. We are asked to contribute to the budget's allocation of $2 million from the State budget of the Boyanbud Society, which was spent on the construction of the pipeline to the village of Bojana in the Novoselicki district and so on. To date, we also need to address the issues that have been raised by representatives of the National Cultural Associations of the Romanian Association of the Montenegrin Region, who are asking us to suspend the process of privatising the premises of the officers' houses in the place of Chernivci, which until the 44th year belonged to the Romanian community, there was a palace of culture. Today, the palace that was built on the expense of the Romanian community, the common people, wants to privatize. The question is to return to this palace and open up a national cultural library, a national theater, other facilities. Dear colleagues, in order to resolve these and other issues, in order for the citizens to feel our support, we need to urgently address the President so that today, at the round table, a decision is made to run for Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and our Anti-Crist Coalition has begun to work and has brought our country out of poverty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, my word, Oleg Lazko, faction “Blok Timoshenko”. He will be followed by Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, and viewers! As representatives of the so - called Antichrist Coalition mentioned my last name yesterday, I decided to come here today to talk about what was going on in Parliament. The point is that a few days ago, I received material that showed that there was a large-scale bribery in Parliament: MPs from the Party of the Regions paid a fairly decent amount -- over $300 million -- to MPs from the Socialist faction, which resulted in a failed coalition of democratic forces, created by an illegal coalition called Anticrisis, which resulted in the election of Frost by the Speaker of Parliament. And today, the man who betrayed his constituents demands that the President submit Janukovich to the Prime Minister. Dear friends! I'm forced to. Friends, I am addressing our voters, not representatives of the so-called anti-crisis coalition. Understanding all the consequences of his statement.I had to do it because I believe, as did members of the Block of Timoshenko team, who had no right to have a parliament in which betrayal and bribery govern the ball. On the subject of statements made by certain representatives of the so-called anti-crisis coalition to my address, well, I can only say one thing about it that they have written on their faces about the exacerbation of the disease, which usually happens during the inter-sessional and sessional stress, so I advise them to calm down. And the last. And the last. Unfortunately, the so-called anti-crisis coalition, which tells us that it is very democratic, did not allow its colleague Lukyanek to finish the speech in which he taught the faction of Timoshenko about participation in the round table, so I will say, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is clarifying and I will make it clear that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko spoke to the Secretary of the President, there is no invitation from the President to participate in the round table. And there's a lot of surprises about round tables. We will not take part in the tables where the so - called anti - crisis coalition is going down. The frost is Judah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, calm down. For the first time, the MP went to the rostrum. That's the first one. Second, since he did it for the first time, the coalition does not have any relationship for three minutes. This timer regulates the timing of the performance and until Levko Grigorovitch had no opportunity to finish what he wanted, he knows that the timer automatically shuts off. So let us forgive the first - grade student for such mistakes. Yes, eight years ago you were here protecting Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko, I'm sorry, I made a mistake, yes. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, “Our Ukraine” faction. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u18	Respectable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, are clearly in the state all manifestations of the parliamentary crisis, the balance of the state's system of power in general, the legal nihilism. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I appeal to all the political forces represented in Parliament to understand our responsibility to the Ukrainian people. The insistence, wisdom and clarity of compliance with the requirements of the Constitution, the legislation of Ukraine in this very difficult situation. Problems did not arise at the same time and not today. We allowed ourselves in December 2004 to avoid bloodshed in Ukraine by adopting very imperfect changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. This problem has been deepened since January 1, 2006, when new provisions of the Constitution were introduced without the necessary legislative basis. In the absence of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Opposition Act, a series of laws regulating relations between central and local authorities. That is why we need to address the issue today, not on the basis of emotions, ultimatums, but on the basis of our task of creating an effective system of state authority in Ukraine, responsible for the control of society, including directions such as pension reform, administrative, judicial and other. The coalition in parliament will be able to address these challenges only if it is unified and programmaticly and ideologically in the context of ensuring Ukraine’s development strategy as a modern democratic, competitive state. The government that we need to form must be a government of national reconciliation and social consolidation. And this is also a test of our endurance and responsibility. Therefore, distinguished national MPs, respected colleagues! I would very much ask all the political parties that are represented in Parliament to stop working on the first issues of their lists. To recall our shared responsibility to the people and to unite our political will, our mind, our responsibility for the interests of society and our state of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u19	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the Communist faction, the Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Before I start saying what I wanted to say from the beginning, I want to respond to the speech by Mr. Deputy, who spoke to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach. I would like to say the main thing, without going to the small things, to answer this man with Eastern wisdom that “the person is barking and the caravan is coming. ” The “anti-crisis” caravan goes very confidently, and that is what causes hysteria among those who, unfortunately, are not in Parliament today, or fortunately, are not. Now, about why I went to this rostrum. Indeed, in Ukraine, the socio-economic situation is extremely complex, the poorly absolute majority of people work. But there are categories of people who are the worst in this situation, I mean pensioners, veterans and disabled people. I remember how many good, right words are spoken the day before Victory Day by some officials, although sometimes I understand and not very sincerely spoken, but it is quite deserved. In particular, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, the President speaks of how much is being done today for veterans, pensioners, and disabled persons. As chairman of the committee, I would like to make some clarifications. First of all, we've made a hole in what we need to do, what these people, who are on the shoulders of this state, deserve. And secondly, he's talking about even what he's done, it's not exactly true, because the vast majority of what he's done is done by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and not by anyone else, is made out of giving the committee to pensioners, veterans, disabled people, and the factions of communists. And it's very often done against the position of the same President. Examples? Please. We know about the long - suffering situation with regard to the status of a warlord, a wartime participant, or a war invalid who does not remember the disgraceful 9 - year - old 91 - dollar extra payments. So the Supreme Council twice passed a law that was appropriate to increase this supplement, and twice the President vetoed, the Supreme Council found the votes and overcame the veto, the Supreme Council, not the President of Ukraine. The same thing I wanted to say about the notorious Children of War Act, including the faction "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of this document, and President Yushchenko voted, Prime Minister Yehanurov, and when the Supreme Council voted in favour of it and then overcame the veto, they simply did not criminally implement this law today. So that's what you have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u21	Thank you, please, Lily Grigorovitch's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u22	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I wouldn't be so sure about the round tables, because world history knows that so many decisions were made at round tables, including during the Orange Revolution. At the same time, I would like to invite all the national deputies to start our round table today. Which means you have to think, because you're a homo sapiens. Dear friends! If you're a citizen of your country, if you're a patriot, whether you're in power or under opposition, there are things that are taboos that will never be destroyed, ever, or under power, or in opposition, they won't allow themselves to destroy the unity of the country's language. This was not even done by the Communists for 13 or 14 years of their opposition. Victor Fedorovich destroyed the unitary integrity of our country, Victor Fedorovich took a swing at the Ukrainian language, and given that I think there's something to think about, think about each member.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Don't yell, don't shout. I would very much like to see others learn that language as quickly as I have spoken Russian - speaking Viktor Fedorovich. Let us follow his example in this regard. Please have a word for it, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, there was a young deputy from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and he mentioned Judah. He must have forgotten that Judas had betrayed Christ’s day. But we don’t have Christ in Ukraine, and even the lady who claims to be named in Ukraine can’t claim him under a lot of circumstances. And with regard to this MP here, I think he just doesn't have the moral right to blame anyone for something, and let him just remember why he spent his time in famous remote places, and in what way and with whose testimony he was driving around the pubs, demanding chickens and other things. I just think that thieves shouldn't take on a righteous man's grief.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u25	So we, my dear fellows, will become more and more knowledgeable about each other's biographic data. Therefore, it is better to remain silent than to speak, because journalists are a people “to date”. Yeah, that's where we ended up. Dear colleagues, let's join in welcoming Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev, his birthday is today, and we wish him another year to meet in the session room. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On National Compulsory State Pension Insurance" is under consideration, Registration No. 1099. [[on the order in which to calculate the length of work in the regions of the Far North]] [[project Je.Gornik delivered 04.07.2006]] Report by Evgen Alexiyovich Gornik, author of the initiative, please prepare for Dibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u26	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's very good that there's a pause, apart from the global political battalions, to solve your particular problems. The bill proposed today refers to people who worked under the conditions of the Last North until January 1, 1991. And their extended service at this time is governed by legislation that was in force until January 1, 1991. This legislation cannot be considered to be very perfect, and it creates quite a number of problems for people when it comes to determining this benefit period, such as not setting up an exclusive list of documents to be presented to the Pension Fund in order to receive appropriate benefits. This bill was drafted on the basis of the proposals of my constituents, when I was a majority MP, I did not lose contact with my district, but it applied to residents of all Ukraine because representatives of all areas worked under the conditions of the End of the North. The history of the bill, although very simple, is quite complex. That's the second line. Before the first edition, there were claims made by the Ministry of Labour and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In your proposed edition, these moments are removed, and there is complete agreement with all the institutions. The bill was ready in December last year, but for technical reasons it did not enter the Supreme Council Hall. Yesterday, the bill was agreed upon by the appropriate committee of the Supreme Council. The bill after publishing on the Internet was of some interest and approval. And I was pleased to learn yesterday that some of the MPs, particularly the reception faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, are already using it, although I don't know how it's done, because it's not approved yet. But I'm glad it's happening. So I suggest that, honourable colleagues, today make something particularly useful for the people of Ukraine for a few hundred people, or maybe a little more of Ukraine's inhabitants, make it easier for them to overcome bureaucratic obstacles and adopt this bill as a whole as a whole, as proposed by the committee of profile yesterday. I agree with all the texts. If there are any more editorial changes today, I agree with them. But, dear colleagues, I ask you to consider that there is no limit to improving the different formulations and that there is something to stop on. I've accepted the last formulation and I'm asking you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u27	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. It's okay. It's okay. Have a seat, please. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The committee carefully considered a bill that had just been reported from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There really is a problem. I would like to say that the problem of pensioning those people who worked their time in the regions of the Far North is a rather acute problem. Until recently, it has gained tremendous sharpness, but after the adoption of the Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance, some acuteness of the problem has been reduced, although I am not saying that it has disappeared at all. Because the point is that before, the maximum pension was held back by three or four minimum pensions per age. This rule is now removed, and so to a certain extent the severity of this problem has been removed. But what I'd like to say is that the rule of law that's being proposed right now is that it's called on to solve a slightly different problem. The point is that you and I, as legislators, know that in addition to everything else, the best law is the one that contains the least reference standards to other laws, and more to regulations. That's it. This law is aimed at solving this problem. We considered this document yesterday at a committee meeting for the second time, because the composition of the committee and the composition of the Supreme Council changed, and we confirmed once again that the committee supports the adoption of this law, and provided that we would clarify some of the wording of Part Four, Part Four of this document, namely, that the credit calculation of the insurance period is based on a workbook stating that a person is entitled to benefits provided for those working in the regions of the Far North or in areas comparable to the regions of the Far North. Such a document also includes a written agreement, or help document, that provides the employee’s benefits. So according to this editorial, I emphasize that the committee is proposing to accept this document as a whole. I would like to say that today the situation in the Communist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been discussed and will also support this document, because it is long-awaited and improves the retirement of our citizens who worked in the Far North. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u29	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. No questions? Have a seat, please. Are there people who want to participate in the bill? Is that clear? What does the Cabinet of Ministers think? Please, Deputy Minister, Helen Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. We sincerely thank the National Deputies for their efforts to improve the pension benefits of our fellow countrymen. We support this bill, which introduces direct action and regulates active legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u31	Thank you. A good understanding between the Supreme Council and the government. For the reasons of the vote Dry, please, a minute microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u32	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear colleagues, I am addressing the session room, this bill and today's, I'm sure, a successful vote on it, gives us the opportunity to understand that the Ukrainian national deputies, who were elected in a particular majority district in due course, and who are now behind the party lists, have no right to be in contact with these districts. Because, knowing the real needs of the people in the districts, we will be able to adopt bills that are not torn apart, but rather politicized, but those that meet our main objective, why everyone came here, to improve the material situation of our people. And one more thing. And another motive for this bill. In the past, unfortunately, he was not voted in favour of, and then politics intervened. I call on the session room now, regardless of the authorship, whether it's the political power or the faction, to support such bills, because, unfortunately, the pension reform has been going on for the second year. This is our debt to the electorate, so this bill must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u33	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, let's do this: I'll give Bulby a word, but I asked if there's a wish to speak? They didn't say An appetite comes when you eat. The bubba is no one else. Please, Stepan Bulba, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u34	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm just taking into account the information of Eugene Gorenik that the BUT faction is already using this law, despite the fact that it is absent and does not want to work in the Supreme Council, let's count the votes of the BUT faction in the vote for this bill, which the Socialists are of course voting unanimously for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u35	Thank you. But BUT, it is, and it is not. Because they kind of wrote that they'd already been divorced. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Pension Insurance, registration number 1099. [[on the order in which to calculate the length of work in the regions of the Far North]] Please vote. [[10:50:24]] For 308. Dear colleagues, the results of the vote, as well as the offer of a professional committee, give us reason to accept it as a law as a whole. Is there any objection? None. Then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance (for the order of payment of employment in the regions of the Upper North, registration number 1099, in that edition, which he gave on behalf of the committee, his head. Please vote. [[10:51:23]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions? Please. It's clear here anyway. Region Party – 185, “Julia Block Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine” – 66, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21. Here we go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, Bill No. 1144. [[on extra-free repairs]] Reported by the author of the initiative, National Deputy Samuelka Catherine Semenovna. From the committee to prepare Alexia Radziewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u36	Thank you. The official edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection gives war disabled persons and comparable individuals the benefit of alternating and free repairs of their own residential buildings and the priority of the current renovation of housing and apartments. At the same time, the benefits of free-of-charge capital repairs are used by war invalids and comparable individuals who have their own homes. For apartments owned by a listed category of persons, this benefit is not distributed. Well, the incoherence of this mentioned issue violates the rights of a large part of the people with disabilities of war and, in fact, we have to somehow tackle this hole. So the distribution of this benefit and the disability of war, which is owned not only by houses, but also by apartments, will help us to make a fair decision. In doing so, because funds are being allocated for the implementation of the mentioned aid and for the State budget of Ukraine, and there are special disability programmes in the budgets of the local authorities, so of course this does not require any additional expenditure, but we can just do it in turn. In considering this issue, a committee meeting expressed the wish that it was billions of money. But I know that Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance always, when it comes to social issues, is necessarily billions and billions of people. Of course, no one has ever allocated such funds. And so, as the author of the bill, I would like to ask you to support this bill. We're talking about 30 billion holes in the government budget. But believe me, this hole was not made by the disabled of the Great Homeland War. I'd like to ask that we really have a fair answer to this question. It should also be noted that the figures for the number of persons with disabilities of war are specified by the authorized statistical authorities with very late hours. But they tend to have a catastrophic reduction. And that is, indeed, absolutely logical, because the vast majority of the people with disabilities of war are the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the youngest of which has been in the last 80 years. The latest official figures for this category include 156 thousand war invalids and 40,000 compared to this category. Of these, in the privatized housing fund, in the “breaths”, these are mostly such buildings, there are no more than 30-22,000 people with disabilities. It is estimated that the current renovation of one home for the disabled of the Great War may cost about 8,000 dollars on average. This means that given the rate, the turn, I emphasize, that the extra cost per year could be 12.5 million dollars. In view of the age of health of war disabled people, unfortunately, this figure will tend to shrink because we know that they are actually getting smaller and smaller, even 32,000. disabled people, then you're spreading into all our regions. In fact, there are 1,000 people in each region, or even less, than thousands of people with disabilities, there are thousands of people in one region. This figure can be entirely covered by increasing the corresponding articles of government and local budgets, of course for the next fiscal year, which includes funding and disability programs. That is to say that there is every reason to say that, given the political will of Parliament and government, this problem can be completely solved. Moreover, yesterday at a meeting of the BUT Committee of Profiles, a representative asked questions that were practically related to mechanisms and regulations. This is really not a matter for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's a matter of already implementing structures of power, and I think that under this law they will be able to develop exactly the mechanism to implement this law that already exists. But there's 32,000 left. People with disabilities living in privatized apartments, towns and district centres. And I am addressing all the Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of our political beauty, whether they belong to the anti-crisis coalition or not, to vote in favour of this law. And I think that in this way, we're practically giving this tribute to those people who have conquered peace for us and who have liberated our country with you from the German-Fashistic invaders. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u37	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Suhim Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u39	Please, Jaroslav Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. The Flagship of the Party of Regions. Dear Catherine of Simeon! Say, please, we're in this together again and again and in this we're starting, I think, a normal practice when we're bending legislation that's aimed at social protection of vulnerable populations. But how we're going to move on, because we've got a retirement reform in place today, and somehow we've been vetoed, and we haven't broken the veto on the Housing Code. So my question is this: do you consider it appropriate to codify all of our legislation that would conform to European standards to the social protection of people? And, first of all, those people, as you rightly said, that we are in eternal debt to the peaceful heavens above our heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u41	I support the idea that you're talking about, and I think our anti-crisis coalition is going to do these tasks that you're talking about. Now we're just patching up a hole that the legislators left behind a long time ago, and even those who don't sit in this room. But today we need and must resolve this matter. And what we're talking about is a socially oriented society, it's not supposed to be in words, not in slogans, not in solemn congregations. It should be implemented through public policy. And that's what we're in this room and we need to implement with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u42	Please, Alexander Stoyan, follow him Borschevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u43	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! In fact, war veterans today deserve not only to have their homes repaired free of charge, disabled persons, but also to receive apartments. You know, until now, I've been a two-time senior deputy in Vinnitsky County, and people live, excuse me, where pigs sometimes don't keep, no one does. And what's more, I'm looking at Kiev right now, I'm not building social housing at all. So those people who need social housing, they can't have it. We need to consider this question. But I do have this question, Catherine Semina. Please tell me, you have somehow calculated what the cost will be, because a free, free repair is about at least a cosmetic repair. And if the president doesn't veto, because we know that all the social laws that we always pass, they get the President's veto. One motive is no money. When the Yanukovich government was there, we found money on both the pension and the payoff, and now, I'm afraid there won't be any money. What is your offer in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u44	I've named the number of people who have remained outside this Law, which has long since been passed, it's been in operation for ten years at all. Thirty-two thousand disabled. It is estimated that 8-8,5 000 is needed to make “cosmetic” current repairs. That's right. So it's going to take about 12.5 million. That's right. I want to say that this, compared to this "hole" that is today in the budget, is really a mess. I'll tell you more. It was the disabled people of the Great Homeland War from the cities who sent us letters that they could not exercise this right because the legislator did not foresee it. And I just had a few heads of cities and they told me that they could actually use the legislative base, but this category doesn't fit. So now we're just going to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u45	Please, Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u46	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Catherine Semenovna, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the voters, for this Act. Because, as a national MP, I have been faced with thousands of letters and appeals from voters all the time to address these problems. I believe that the term “liability” is not acceptable here. It is our duty to our fathers and grandfathers who have maintained the independence of our State. But all the time, I've been faced with a write-off by the authorities that there's no money in order. The adoption of this Law, do you think, will this stone be the solution to this very serious pressing problem for our veterans and the disabled of the Great Homeland War?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u47	Well, I think that the queues only adopted by this law, which, as we have been properly amended by the profiling committee, will be put into effect from the following fiscal year. The queues in the EU were and will be. But this will give us the opportunity to have a fair and fair approach to all the disabled in the Great Homeland War. Not only to those who live in their own homes but also to those who live in privatized apartments. Yesterday at the meeting of the Suskević Committee, our colleague, gave examples of people living in their own home, who were poor and very rich, and we to the person who had lived in the cartilage for all ages, who had seen nothing but her, and who would not see her, we would just leave her alone. So the queues are going to be, but we're the category that we just didn't consider with you somehow, and it's going to benefit from this benefit on an equal footing with all the right to receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u48	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Alexei Vasilovich Radziewski
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, at its meeting, carefully considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Catherine Samoylik, registration number 114. The bill proposes to grant the rights of war invalids to extra-curricular, free-of-charge housing repairs for the apartments they live in. The current edition of the Act on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantee of their social protection, provides for the benefits for their own homes, and the apartments owned by war invalids do not extend this benefit to this day. The committee supports the draft author's legislative proposal. At the same time, we consider it appropriate to stress that such a change should be made to article 15, paragraph 8, of the same law. With regard to the term of validity of the law, we believe that this law should be introduced by the committee on January 1, 2007. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to make these amendments to existing legislation. And I think there really should be no reference here to the political orientation of those or other national MPs. This is about a very small number of living war invalids who are now exposed for reasons beyond the proper attention of the Supreme Council. This law must be upheld. I appeal to all of you, fellow believers, with such a request and also ask that you accept it not only in the first reading but also in general. There will be no extra pressure on the State budget. And this law is fully in line with the Budget Act, both for 2006 and for the budget that we will approve with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u50	Thank you. Any questions to the co-conspirator? Please sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Alexei Vasilovich, and you are now, and Catherine Semenovna in your report are so sorry about the fact that he said these coins wouldn't put much pressure on the budget and all that. Let's maybe we won't be as weak here as our veterans and war invalids. When we met them at a place of residence, I was personally not one hundred meetings, they were people who understood how to cut the castle, how to replace one board, how to replace several ciphers. It's not that kind of money, and if we have a lot of programs, maybe we can take the money off of each program, and it's not going to accumulate in politics. So I'm asking you, if you're going to adopt the law on both the first and the second readings, let's ask the questions so that the costs that would not annoy people after that would calm them down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u52	Thank you. I agree with you completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u53	Well, it's a wish. Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u54	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Alexy Vasilovich, I'm here. Tomorrow we'll probably take the basics of fiscal policy. You don't think that in order for the central government to not translate these 12.5 million, or how much is there, into local budgets, to provide subsidies from the state budget to the local budgets for each area? This order of one million is going to be for each area. I think your committee will take part in the budgeting process so that they can predict this in the formation of the 2007 state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I would like to inform you, fellow Members of State, that the matter has been discussed at a committee meeting, when considering appropriate budget proposals. We have come to the clear conclusion that the proposals made by the Minister of Finance, in declaring their vision of the 2007 budget, should be considered very seriously at the level of the Committees of the Supreme Council, because there we have seen a clear tendency to shift the burden of social responsibility to those who need this protection to local self-government. We don't deny the extension of the rights of local self-government bodies -- it's a normal, positive process, but everything has to be calculated very well so that it doesn't work out the way it always does when it's passed on without adequate sources of security for some sort of function to perform local self-government. So I thank you for that question. It reaffirms and strengthens the need to count everything carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexei Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. I understand all the questions are important, but they're all equal before the Rules. Sorry, next time you press the button. Sign up for the performance, and you'll say so. Yes, will you please let us discuss this? Please sign up for the performance. Yeah, let's take 15 minutes. Please, Borszewski, the Communist faction. Follow him, Kalts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today we are adopting and voting for a very important law. By this law, we can emphasize once again that we remember our debt to those who, in due time, have no regrets for strength, health, blood, protected our State and maintained our independence. The adoption of this law would remove a rather serious problem in society, which I, as a national MP, also felt from the electoral letters. But I would like to emphasize one more point. Yesterday, it was said that there was a crisis in Parliament. This is the consideration of these laws of social and previous law, and this underlines that there is no crisis in Parliament, that Parliament is today determined to decide and is beginning to turn its social programmes into reality. I therefore call today for us to vote in favour of this law in the same way as the previous one, and I think that these are the first steps to implement the anti-crisis programme signed by the members of the Anti-crisis coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u58	Please, Kaltsev Sergei. Please. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u59	Honourable deputies have submitted a very important, socially important bill. I believe that our sacred duty, our duty to support it, to support all factions, parties, blocs, to support this bill without exception. I'm sure in five to ten minutes this bill will become law. I have a huge request to our committee, which introduced this bill, to take it under personal control, and I am sure that we will all be able to do this programme, it is enough money to implement, implement. And those people who have worked their whole lives for the idea and for the idea that they want to have a little bit of feedback from us. And we're gonna have to do a lot of things for them, believe me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u60	Thank you. A representative of the Budget Committee, by the way, spoke. It upholds the law. It's good to see you. Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Behind him, Cibenko. Is Volsey passing it on? Please, Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! First question. I'd like to point out to you that we're with you, in my opinion, we're not counting the money properly. I'm taking the calculator and I'm multiplying 32,000 people who need that help by 8,000 dollars, I'm getting 256 million dollars. Once again, very carefully, count it. 8,000 dollars times 32,000 dollars we're going to get 256 million dollars with you, we're going to need a quarter of a billion dollars. But the bill is very important, it's very important that the people's electorate go to this bill with all the responsibility, and where can we get that money? I think that, right now, the passing of this bill, I stress the irresponsibility of the forces that speak of the necessity of the elections. The election itself will cost even more than we need to give to the people, to these very needy veterans, who, in fact, have protected our freedom with you, these are the money these smarts want to use for the election. And so, first of all, I would like them to still respond responsibly to the fact that it's not 12 million, it's 256 million, it's a quarter of a billion. And secondly, I think that all the national MPs, and all the political powers now have to focus attention and put weight on. Look, please, the respectable Victor Andriyovich and the smart guys around you, that we either help veterans and do what we can for them to do, or you go on your adventures and spend these costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u62	Thank you. Vassil Alexanderovich, but we agreed that any election will be made at the expense of the initiators of these elections. So there's another situation. Please, Peter Cibenko, behind him Stoyan is passing it on to Sukhima.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you, first of all, to support the Communist faction initiative, particularly Catherine Semenovna, regarding the adoption of this law. Today, there is much talk about the effectiveness, viability, or inadequacy of the anti - crisis coalition. I would like to say that the anti-crisis coalition with these legislations has already begun to work, and we have a number of legislative acts that are designed to support the social protection of the poorest. And that's why I'd very much like my respectable colleagues to support this. I understand what's going to happen now. Now, after, let's say, a discussion of MPs, a representative of the Ministry of Finance will take the floor and announce that billions of dollars of disability benefits are being calculated. Dear colleagues, you know, this is the "fearful" that is constantly emerging before the adoption of the budget. The numbers are growing shamelessly tens of hundreds of times in order to scare, not to accept, not to let, etc. I assure you, this is where the MPs told me that this is a much larger sum than Catherine Simeonovna said. I assure you that the annual implementation of this norm and the number of people with disabilities who will be able to use this service every year will not be calculated by thousands but will be calculated by hundreds each year. Because we're talking about sequentiality, that this isn't going to happen for this service, or that service isn't going to be given to all those who are going to use it. So I am absolutely convinced that the state budget money, with the state budget, I would stress that the approach to solving these problems will necessarily be solved. And one more thing I wanted to say, dear colleagues, let's mention the words that we all spoke to you in the elections, the words that we spoke on the day of the 60th anniversary of the great victory. Maybe for one of the disabled of war it will be the last thing we can and will do to support them today. Because the absolute majority of the people with disabilities of war are the disabled of the Great Homeland War. I'm going to make an emphasis: many of them are far over 80. And of course, age does not add to their health in solving these problems. So once again, I ask everyone and we are responsible for voting on this document and for supporting it not only in the first reading, but in general, because otherwise we create contradictions between the two norms of the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u64	But the committee does not recommend it as a whole. Jaroslav Suhi, please follow him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has embarked on a constructive work around actual bills shows that both the President of Ukraine and the Government can count on legislative support for the main task of any authority, especially the task that has been clearly and unequivocally set out in Ukraine's President Viktor Yushchenk's programme “10 steps to meet people” is to improve the material well-being of the people, to ensure the conditions of life for our people. This is about finding a compromise between the needs of our people, our choices that we represent here, and the financial and material capabilities of the government. I'm deeply convinced and I wouldn't be here accusing the apiori of Minghin of being wild and stupid. Nothing like that! These people come out of the actual specific budget possibilities. I'm deeply convinced that this is the convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will no longer give rise to demagogies or to the cheap populism of the government of Timoshenko, when money was scattered to the left and to the right, and then we couldn't make ends meet. But there is another circumstance. We're going to count real then the cost, if this is the cost of repairing apartments, then it's the cost that goes then and the budget because it's buying materials, paying the value added tax, it's paying the salary plan, paying those social fund taxes, including, by the way, the pension fund. That's just so you know, new jobs, and you ask, what are the problems in our housing and maintenance offices right now? There's no money to hire a locksmith to hire a repairman. I believe more than that, you and I, dear colleagues, are simply obliged to take control not only of the condition of the apartments where our war invalids live. But where they're being treated, see what these hospitals represent for the veterans of the Great Homeland War, how they're equipped, what rooms are there, which are bed linen. And the last. The previous bill of honorary colleague Hoornik from “our Ukraine” and this bill, which we are considering, is a group of authors from the UK Company and the Party of Regions, speaks of the need for us to return as soon as possible to the issue of the Housing Code. You remember, in the previous summons, for reasons that I don't understand, the President vetoed this important document right here in the Housing Code, and there should be a rule on social protection, social housing protection for the most vulnerable types of the population. And we need to start work immediately on the renewal of pension reform. It was successfully launched by the government of Kinah, followed by the government of Yanukovich. Sadly, the government of Tymoshenko has stumbled upon populism, lies, and empty promises. We're not moving forward with pension reform for the second year. So this bill and our successful work in this session room are giving us new, completely successful progress in protecting the interests of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u66	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u67	Dear fellow national MPs, dear voters! The consideration of this bill, which, as you know, introduced by a Communist faction by National Deputy Catherine Seminal Semenovna Samojlik, once again confirms that the anti-crisis coalition created today in the Supreme Council is acting and acting by considering the laws that are necessary for our nation today. Moreover, it also confirms that our anti-crisis coalition, most of the Supreme Council, has begun to lend debts to our electorate, debts in this regard, to consider as quickly and effectively as possible the problems that concern our people today in the order of life of many Ukrainian families. Special attention, in my view, is due to the consideration of this law, which concerns our disabled, the famous veterans of the Great Homeland War, who stood for the freedom and independence of our homeland in those distant years. And what's more, just a year ago, a year ago, we were with you, celebrating the 60th anniversary of the great victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War, giving almost every word to our electorate and, in particular, to the veterans of the Great Motherland to do everything possible to seriously improve their lives, to solve those urgent problems that concern each of our parents today, the veterans of the Great Homeland War. I think that even those national MPs who are doubtful today are looking at these positions of this proposed bill regarding the implementation of capital repairs and housing for disabled, veterans. I think they're gonna take them off. These warnings make sense that, and here's the money that will be allocated for the maintenance of the apartments, they can go to repair the apartments at 150-160 square meters, which could even be in Khrestetica in Kiev. My dear fellows, do not be afraid, you disabled, the veterans of the Great Motherland are only a few thousand. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u68	Thank you. That is how we concluded the discussion. Please, who's from Kabmin? Yes, I'll measure you, first from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Victor Mikolayovich Djachenko, and then the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry supports the legislative initiative of National Deputy Samylik Catherine Seminovna, I am grateful for the proposal to strengthen social protection and support the disabled of war, so to speak, and for those who are like them and who support the adoption of the bill in the first reading with further elaboration of it to the second reading according to the Supreme Council Rules. In particular, it was necessary to determine the term of validity of the law, and that was the subject of discussion today. There is a need, so to speak, to change the law and to take into account other categories, such as widows of war invalids, this has been the case today. And make real calculations, financial accounts to take them into account in the 2007 State Budget with the aim of implementing the law in the right amount. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u70	Thank you. Please Deputy Minister of Finance, Matthew Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u71	Honorable National MPs. Only you make a decision, and only the government that you form will make the decision. My job is simply to prove to you the risks involved in making this decision. I think it's quite clear to the audience that this is an additional benefit that was not previously foreseen and that additional financial resources are needed to implement this benefit. Dear National Deputies, we in Ukraine will have the right to benefit more than 180,000 people with disabilities. If you take only the cost of repairing one apartment for one disabled person of 7.5 thousand dollars, and you realize that it is not possible to repair such money at all, you will notice an additional cost of over 1 billion dollars. When making a decision, I would like to pay attention to the following. That a bill has been tabled for consideration by honourable national MPs in violation of a number of valid legislative acts. It's accounted for with no financial expense for its implementation. This should be noted that the draft law in question violates article 95 of the Constitution, which states that only the State Budget Act defines any social expenditure. In this case, there is an effort through another law, not through the State Budget Act, to increase social expenditure that is not provided by non-inflationary sources of funding. The bill is in violation of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, which provides that proposals for additional expenses should be made for sources of funding. Finally, the draft law violates three articles of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure: Article 6.2. 7, 9.1.1. and 9.1.9., where the question of how to deal with additional costs is regulated. And as much as we don't reduce it to 12 million, and to any amount, the expenditure will be over 1 billion dollars. Dear National Deputies, article 77 of the State Budget Act 2006 provides for about three dozen laws that we did not provide for financial resources, including for war. We continue this list and it will only lead to one thing that you, the honourable national deputies, will need to increase. And this will not benefit the disabled of war. I ask you to take this into account when voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u72	Thank you. Vladimir Makarovich, the point is that we don't violate any articles of the Constitution because you understand. That any law can be ensured by what you say, by the State Budget Act. And even if we accept it now, no one will pay anything until there are relevant articles in the State Budget Act. I mean, we're not breaking anything yet. Yes, please, the final word of the reporter and we will be determined. A car from the spot, a microphone. Well, Sulkovsky hasn't heard from her in a while. Maybe he will. Samuel's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to emphasize once again, you see, Vladimir Makarovich, you've already named the figure 180,000 veterans, the disabled of the Great Homeland War. 32,000, the benefits already exist, whether we take the law or not! But 32,000 were left out of it unjustly. And that is why I would like to thank all those who speak out for the support of our faction, the Company of Ukraine, the idea of the Anti-Crist Coalition. And we have to make sure that justice is in fact enshrined in this law, because it is not clear why 170 million people with disabilities use this benefit -- another way they use it -- and 32 million. Thousands of people, sorry, stayed out of it. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u74	Thank you. Yes, please, Sulkowski's microphone, and we're voting. She missed the voice of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, equality has always upheld the state’s position and will continue to support, especially the national deputies from the Plains. Therefore, honourable national MPs, listening today to both the committee and all speakers, indeed, want to solve this painful problem. But when we're listening now from the government, the deputy minister of finance, and he's so in pain that he's breaking the law, the individual articles, that it's impossible, that it's in conflict with the adoption of such a law. So I want to tell you, my friend, you've returned to the Ministry of Finance more than once in your lifetime, and you won't have to solve this problem. And that's why I would advise you to keep your mouth shut better because the day is coming. A new government, and it will solve this problem, because this government will not be a populist, like you are now a populist. Tell me, where did you split the money from the "Criminals"?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, let us live in peace with the office of ministers, not assigning those to whom we will have no dealings with you, for the Deputy Ministers are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the Supreme Council. And Vladimir Makarovich is absolutely right about the Ministry's point of view and tells us to adopt such laws so that they don't be repealed. He stands up for himself, and we do what we do, so let's make up our minds. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I pay attention to both you and those who listen to us, what is the point of this law? Indeed, there is injustice, for one part of the war’s disabled today has benefits, namely, those who have their own homes, their own dwellings, and those who have apartments do not live in their own homes, and they do not have such benefits in their homes. And it's probably totally unfair that we've divided this category into the most deserving category of first, sorry, and second class. And I think the drafters of the bill are quite right to propose that all of these social rights be balanced so that those who have both their own homes and those who live in public utilities or private apartments enjoy the same right. I'm proposing a profile committee on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, registration number 1144. [[on non-commitment free repairs]] Please vote. [[11:36:59]] For 252 Adopted in the first reading. I think it's respectable colleagues, dear colleagues. Hold on, Peter Stepanovich. Let's take a look at the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, social policy, which says that we literally need to make a little change. And in a day or two, we'll ask the committee to take these shots and vote the law as a whole as a law. I repeat, I do not wish to violate the Rules. Article 27 of the Code of Budgets on Reasons is not respected. I'm not going to put it all together. We'll ask the committee to work quickly. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Adam Ivanovich, well, for the first time when the committee bill was reported, was clearly stated that we are proposing to introduce it as of 1 January 2007. This is the first time. It's different. One word is added in two articles. One: the apartment, that we will work on the second reading. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced that we have every reason to accept the whole document, bearing in mind that it will take effect from January 2007. Because it's about solving the problem, and once we solve the problem of enacting the law as a whole, we have to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u78	Peter Stepanovitch, I totally support you, but you probably didn't listen very carefully to the deputy minister of social policy and the work he's offering to add not only the date of entry, but the widows of war and so on and so forth. So let's make sure we don't catch up later. That's one thing. Second, Peter Stepanovich, you have signed a draft decree for the committee that says to be accepted as a basis. Two days from now, we will accept him as a law as a whole. Does no one object to accepting it as a law? No, it doesn't. Then I put to the vote, to the adoption as a law, but with such additions. First, its entry into force on January 1, 2007, is the first addition to this law. And the second. Bring here the transcript, please, what the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy said. With such additions, I am generally referring to the adoption of a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on non-commitment free repairs]] Bill number 1144. Please vote. [[11:40:17]] For 255 The law is passed. Once again, with the entry into force of January 1, 2007, with the rights proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The faction, please. Region Party – 183, “Timoshenko Block” – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 17, Socialists – 32, Communists – 21. Dear colleagues, we have a matter of ratification. If you don't mind, because we're supposed to take a break at 12 o'clock, let's work on these issues, and then we're going to call a break and we're going to close the morning session. Is there no objection to us working like this? Okay, thanks. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information is being complied with. Reported Deputy Chief of Security, Korshunov Vladislav Grigorovich. Get Samylenko ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u79	The Honourable Head of Nationals of Ukraine, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information is being submitted for your consideration. The agreement is designed to create legal frameworks for exchanging, where necessary, classified information between the parties in the process of cooperation in the field of national security and the protection of the rule of law, along the lines of combating terrorism, drug trafficking and international criminal groups, and taking into account prospects for military, technical, political, economic and scientific cooperation within the framework of individual treaties and contacts. The international agreement provides for a purely equitable partnership in the process of cooperation, obliges the parties to take the necessary steps to protect the reception of classified information. This agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification of the agreement will create legal framework for the exchange and protection of classified information, contribute to the effectiveness of Ukraine's mutual cooperation with the Republic of Croatia after it has become effective. The bill was agreed without notice with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance. Ratification of the agreement does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u80	Thank you. Any questions? Please. None. None. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Samylenko Yuri Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u81	Respectable colleagues. On 20 July, at the meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence, a bill of agreement proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was considered. The Explanatory Note to this Agreement contains all the exhaustive data and the Explanatory Note is in your hands. The draft law was drafted by the Security Service in cooperation with the Croatian side and the agreement was signed on 14 July 2005. The signature of the ratification of that agreement is due to the need to create a legal environment for the exchange of classified information where necessary, taking into account, inter alia, the prospects for political, economic, military and technical cooperation under individual agreements and contracts. I would like to emphasize that the agreement ensures an extremely equitable partnership in the information exchange process and is consistent with all international laws and practices. The agreement does not entail the adoption of new or amending existing laws of Ukraine, nor does it require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u82	Thank you. No questions? Have a seat, please. No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. I then vote on adoption as a whole as a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual protection of classified information. Registration number 0004. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:12]] For 270. The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. A draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Statute of the Hague Conference of International Private Law is under consideration. Registration number 0005. Reported by Jefimenko Deputy Minister of Justice Leonid Vasilovich. Please prepare for Ruslan Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. It is known that the Statute of the Hague Conference of International Private Law became effective in 1955. Ukraine joined this charter in 2003 with the corresponding Law. Today, the conference is attended by 65 participants, including three SND member states: Belarus, Russia, Ukraine. The amendments to the Statute were approved in June 2005. The change is that, in addition to States, the Statute can also be a member of relevant international organizations, economic development. The changes also apply to the organization of the work of the conference itself, as well as to the manner in which membership fees are paid by organizations that are accepted under the statute. Additional expenditure will not be borne by the budget, nor will it be necessary to make appropriate changes to the legislation of Ukraine. In this regard, and taking into account the positive conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration and the conclusions of the Committee, we ask for the adoption of the Law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u84	Thank you. Yes, please, from the Committee on Legal Policy, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, in principle, Leonid Vasilovich objected to my participation and I'm just going to report, in principle, the position of the committee and a few words to say, what is the point of this document? The point is that the International Hague Conference on International Private Law is such a global mechanism for settling all disputes relating to private international law. And in 2003, indeed, according to the Statute, our state joined in approving such a Statute. But the essence of this Statute is that members of such an organization may be exclusively States to which the issue of private international law is appropriately referred. At the same time, an unusual event took place in May 2005, as 10 new members were added to the European Union. And so in June, at the Hague Conference, it was decided to take that into account, after the relevant members and 25 countries of the European Union had joined, they decided at their meeting. To refer questions relating to the competence of private international law under its own jurisdiction to the competence of the European Union. And it was a dilemma, because the European Union itself, as an international organization, cannot be a member in accordance with the statute, and the countries that join it do not have the right to be competent in matters of private international law. Accordingly, it was decided to amend the statute, which led not only to States becoming members of this international Hague Conference but also to international organizations, but primarily the European Union. I mean, economic, regional international organizations with economic integration into competence, whose member states have given the very authority to international private law. Well, given all these circumstances, the Committee on Legal Policy, firstly, proposes to support the bill, taking into account the fact that, firstly, it does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Secondly, this will be settled in the middle of the international conference itself, because the international organisation, namely the European Union, will be able to act as a full member and thus not be discriminated against by those members of the European Union who have given their part of the competence to the European Union. And given that two-thirds of the members of this organization now need to be properly ratified in order for these changes to be adopted. And at this stage, there is not enough membership, because all the members of the European Union have voted, but not all of the 405 countries have joined the process so far. In view of Ukraine’s desire to join the European Union in the future, we are simply obliged to support the European Union because this, perhaps including our desire to join the European Union, will be appreciated. I have to say that this does not apply exclusively to the European Union, but this applies to any regional economic integration organization that will take care of such issues. If Ukraine joins such an organization, it can enter it without hindrance, knowing that it will not be discriminated against within the international system of international private law. Because of the technology of the bill, the committee decided to ask Parliament to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u86	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, but why does the committee recommend it only on the first reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u87	No, the committee's offering the basis, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u88	On the basis of this, it is called the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u89	But just now, we're actually. Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov won't let me lie that we agreed on the committee that we would make an offer to endorse him as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u90	Thank you, of course, for correcting the committee's opinion. I mean, the committee's proposal to adopt it as a law. Would you like to share in the discussion? None. I then vote on the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Statute of the Hague Conference of International Private Law. Registration number 0005. Please vote. [[11:51:34]] For 279 Who doesn't? It's like all the cards worked on the monitor. Yes, two factions ask for breaks, this is a faction of the Party of Regions and Communists. But I think they'll only use the word. Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, our constituents. I have the honour to read out the statement of the Ukrainian Party of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the delay in the investigation of a criminal case committed by the murder of journalist George Gongadze and the reopening of a criminal case filed on the death of the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Kravchenka. The Democratic Development Test in Ukraine is based on transparency and objectivity in the investigation of high political affairs that constitute a major social interest. For a long time, society and the world’s public are concerned about the murder of journalist George Gongadze. Despite the strong statements of the new authorities about the speedy and objective investigation of the case, it remains undisclosed until the end. Moreover, a number of important witnesses who could contribute to revealing the truth in mysterious circumstances have gone out of their lives. This is primarily about the death of ex-Minister of the Interior of Ukraine Yuri Kravchenk. It was the day he was to give a witness to the law enforcement authorities in the Gongadze case that became the last day of his life. I want to remind you that one of the first people to be on the scene of Kravchenk's death and then persistently spread information about his suicide was the former head of the U.S.S.S.A., the national deputy of the Timoshenko Block of July, Alexander Turkinov. The further conclusion of law enforcement authorities regarding the closure of a suicide case is, in our view, biased and untrue. In this connection, the Party of the Regions’ MPs at the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a statement to resume the investigation of a criminal case committed by the death of former interior minister Yuri Kravchenk. We also consider it necessary, in the course of a renewed investigation, to verify the involvement of the ex-head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and now the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, in the murder of Yuri Kravchenk, the rightfulness of his efforts to file this case as suicide, while a number of internal affairs officials openly claim and forensic experts clearly confirm that there is room for murder. In our view, Alexander Turchinov is involved in stopping the investigation into the murder of George Gongadze, in fact, by warning General Pukac, who was in Israel, about the possibility of detention. To our deep conviction, society should finally have clear answers to the question: What happened to George Gongadze? Who killed General Kravchenk the day before his interrogation at the Attorney General's Office in the Gongadze case? And what role did the ex-head of the Ukrainian Security Service Alexander Turchinov play in delaying this case? In the light of the foregoing, the party’s MPs prepared and made parliamentary requests to the Attorney General of Ukraine and to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the renewal of the criminal investigation, which had resulted in the death of former Interior Minister Yuri Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u92	No, no. Dear colleagues, tomorrow, more faithfully, on Friday. I don't have to pass on anything, I don't have to. Friday, Friday, you can give it to me. On Friday, however, the Rules will read these questions, and everything will go as prescribed by law. Take your time. We have the Rules, everything is defined there. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on guaranteed assistance and technical cooperation, registration number 0009. Reported to Deputy Minister of Economy Musin Ludmila Abdrahmanovna. Prepare Vitalia Mother from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill is the legal settlement of issues related to technical cooperation and the provision of grants to the Government of the Republic of Korea in such a framework agreement. This aid can be substantially expanded if this law is ratified, and in such directions as health, energy, science, technology -- where, indeed, the Republic of Korea has considerable experience. Please note that today most international technical assistance donors are governed by such framework agreements as the United States, the FERN, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Turkey, Italy and Japan. Along with Korea, we regulate these relationships only in separate intergovernmental agreements. However, in the case of imports of equipment, mechanisms, or experts in Koreans who need to pay the benefits, they must be ratified by the Supreme Council. And then the process of implementing projects can be delayed. For example, the agreement to implement a telemedicine project in Kiev was signed last December, but it will only be ratified this week. Thus, the adoption of this framework year can accelerate the implementation of the necessary projects for our country. What is foretold? Tax and other benefits are foreseen for importing equipment, machinery, and materials from the Republic of Korea, and this is entirely in line with the international practice of receiving technical assistance from the country. In fact, this agreement is the same agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan, which was ratified on July 1, 2004. The Ministry of Economics agrees with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on the possibility of ratifying this agreement and on the question of the expected impact of the ratification of the agreement on the state budget, in particular articles 5, 7, 9. So we want to point out that their implementation does not provide for additional public budget expenditure, but it will help reduce the burden on the State budget and thus solve our most important problems of socio-economic development. In this regard, please support this draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Grant Assistance and Technical Cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u94	Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Questions. There are questions. Well, sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Grigorovich, behind her, Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u95	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood at its meeting, discussed a draft ratification of the agreement on technical assistance, telemedicine, by Korea. The thing is, we haven't had this technical capability in Kiev yet. This is an extremely important and unique step to be able to consult at a distance, to deal with consultants who can see from Germany, from Tokyo, from Paris, and so forth. This is an extremely necessary thing that is not yet available in the capital city of Ukraine. The committee unanimously supported the proposal to ratify the agreement. I would like Parliament to support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u96	Yes, please, Baldirev Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u97	The distinguished rapporteur, we know that the events of a six-and-a-half-year-old age, referred to as the orange revolution, although I believe that this is a path, have been made mainly for money brought to Ukraine by grants. This is the deal that we are currently discussing, which provides for grants. I would like to know whether it contains any mechanisms to protect against the use of this money against the integrity and statehood of Ukraine? Does it contain any protection mechanisms to ensure that this money does not go into another revolution again, but now not on the American order, but on the Korean order. I, for example, know that the Moon World Church enjoys the support of the Korean Government, will it not become another trap for our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u98	The point is that this is a framework agreement, and once the projects needed to be implemented in Ukraine are defined, individual agreements between the recipient will also be signed. For example, if it is telemedicine, it will specifically involve equipment, technology needed for medicine, for example. If it's energy conservation, it's with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and energy conservation. So this is just going to be clearly defined in the agreements that are entered into, for what purposes, and that's why this agreement describes this framework in cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u99	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u100	May I have a word with Shibku?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u101	Thank you. Sophia Alexandrovna, I'd like to ask you how the Ministry can control the execution of all these contracts. For example, you know that of all the covenants of today, a similar arrangement between Japan is, and no longer, others bear a different name. So you know that, for example, Japan is very productive in this movement, the work is grand, but there are loans. And these loans are stuck today. I mean, the loan that Japan paid today to build the Borispol Airport, and right now, the Transportation Ministry can't possibly share it, how do we apply it, and they're wondering if we need that money or not? I want to ask you, is there a mechanism in your ministry to control the implementation of these international agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u102	Of course, all this help is surely registered in the Ministry of Economics, provided with help, and constantly tested by the Court of Auditors, and by other controlling organizations. So the calculation here is very clear. But on the other hand, if this is really the case with the Ministry of Transport, of course, for our part we just control how the project is being implemented and signalled by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the relevant structures to speed up and solve these issues. Because, first of all, the Japanese government is asking us to help them break this problem down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sit down, Ludmila Abdrahmanovna. Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Affairs, Vitaly Ivanovich Mikeo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u104	Vitaly Majko, faction “Our Ukraine”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Dear National MPs, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Grant Assistance and Technical Cooperation was discussed. The registration number 0009, which aims to ensure that internal public procedures are implemented to obtain a valid agreement that establishes general, legal and technical cooperation rules, will ensure transparency in the process of their formation, selection and harmonization. The members of the committee took this decision to support this agreement very seriously, considering all the issues that arose in this room today. And I would like everyone to understand that this agreement is a matter of technical assistance. And for example, to the different loans, it doesn't have anything to do with it, we've seen that there's really a question and control in this agreement, and we've considered all the negatives that were at work once when we made other decisions. I think that this agreement needs, first of all, today's approval and the opportunity to work faster than with another loving country in the direction of technical assistance is the basic position of this agreement. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u105	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. My beard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u106	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kruglav Nikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u107	Dear reporter! As we can see from the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, paragraphs 5, 7 and 9 of the agreement provide for the granting of benefits. Please tell me, what kind of benefits is that? And in this regard, what will be the cost of our budget as a result of these benefits? And there is absolutely no need to conclude that there is no financial or economic basis for this bill. Please tell me, how did the committee react to the absence of conclusions and the calculation of the benefits?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u108	In part of the conclusions, we noted that there should be such a conclusion, and there is no budget loss, because that's the help that if we got some kind of equipment and we had to take some kind of tax out of it, it would be a tax and we had to pay for help. I mean, we have to take it from the budget and give it to the budget, it's stupid and we don't have to do this at all. Therefore, the loss of the budget will not be borne with this help. There's an interesting thing, it's about buying Koreans who are going to work in Ukraine, some techniques, but there's a condition written that if this technique stops using it and it's going to be sold, then all the taxes that were the benefits, they're going to have to pay. Therefore, there is no budget loss for this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u109	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u110	Vitaly Ivanovich, a.k.a. The minister mentioned that some legislative changes would have to be made to the Treaty. Is this some kind of gossip, or is this a change? You've analyzed what the committee said to me. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u111	I've either listened or I don't know what the changes are. I know we didn't have such questions on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u112	Please, Hennaday the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u113	Thank you. Vitaly Ivanovich, I have a question, not really to you, but to the reporter, to Ludmila Alexandrovni, and I “did not fall into the arms”. But I would like to support this proposal with which the Koreans, South Korea, came to us. I want to testify that help comes to us with a pure heart and not with funding or oranges or other revolutions. But the question is, How long ago did this aid come to us? Who she didn't come from. Whether someone controls us or is going to control where these billions have gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u114	I think it should be the ministry's response to this help. Yeah? And control over this help. I don't think it's going to be that big right now from Korea, because not so much they're giving us and they're talking more about it. So I don't think it's a problem to control it. And if they do something wrong or not honest, you know, there's this Ukrainian saying, "He's got someone to pray to, he's gonna break his forehead." So there are these things here too, you just have to do control. But when it's given for free, it seems to me that it's a sin in our country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u115	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich, please sit down. To the question that Eugene Gorenik asked. The point is that this is a framework agreement, and here the second article says that on the basis of this agreement, the parties make separate arrangements in writing for the execution of specific programs. So every particular program a is a general agreement and every particular program is already going to be detailed because it has no specifics, which is where. Yes. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, we'll give it to Bronnikov and we'll vote. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u116	Respected colleagues, all the guarantors given to Ukraine, any grant from the Soros Foundation, be it guarantors from other countries, were given the same purpose, to certify Ukraine's intellectual technical financial capabilities with the use of them. As a result of its objectives. Korea is now in the process of doing so. All other countries no longer give us a guarantee. Therefore, I ask all deputies to reconsider whether we need Korea's money to provide an overview of Ukraine's potential in this harsh competitive world. Thank you. I'd like you to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-26-m0.u117	Let us think about it and give the Cabinet of Ministers the task of thinking very carefully when making separate agreements, for this agreement does not offer anything; it needs a particular object or branch. So far there is no danger. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on grant assistance and technical cooperation, registration number 0009. Please vote. [[12:12:00]] For 266 The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the order of the day. Thank you for your fruitful work. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. Today work on committees and factions. Tomorrow morning morning's meeting at 10 a.m. Good luck.
