ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who listens to the Supreme Council today, I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. A registration is being carried out. [[16:00:30]] There were 357 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Just finished the work of the Conciliation Board of Heads of the factions of Parliament. She analyzed the documents submitted to your consideration of the committees or committees of the Supreme Council, their composition, their leadership, and so forth. Although it's extremely difficult to find a compromise document, at least it seems to me that all the reasoning, all the rights of the faction and the proportional representation, and many other things are included here. Anyway, they're all accounted for. The circulation of this document is now being prepared to be distributed to you and it's not the responsibility of the Technical Services of the Supreme Council Secretariat, and it's our fault, we haven't been able to find a compromise solution at the right time. So in order for you to get this document and get to know it, there may be some technical errors, perhaps writing down the name wrong, perhaps someone wrong as defined in the faction, or that in order to be able to find out and finally accept this document, we need to assign everyone half an hour of time to do so. So I suggest you take a break for half an hour to get to know this document, it was given to you before, and you're still consciously voting for it. Is there no objection? None. Thus, a half - hour break is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the committee, the election of the committee heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, the secretaries and the committee members. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, gives the report. I'm asking for your attention! Anyone who has met and has these documents on his hands, there are no deputies yet, please pass them on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u3	Yes. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Let me inform you about the work of the preparatory group that was created yesterday at the suggestion of the faction leaders, where two representatives from each faction were led by the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. I should point out that during this period, those who represented political factions in this working group have worked quite actively and productively on one of the most painful, most problematic issues, because they always require rather strict attention, because nowhere, nor in any legislative act in this particular document, does the document on the personal composition of the committees of the Supreme Council affect the interests of each of the national MPs. We've been very careful about all the suggestions and we've come to the bottom of this, which is that, despite the fact that the coalition has had the opportunity to make a single decision and distribute the committees in a way that it would consider necessary, but we have complied with the requirements of the Rules and Rules, the requirements of the Supreme Council's Committee Act have been made so that, in proportion, I emphasize once again, proportionally, the distribution of seats on committees, the positions of committee heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads of committees and the responsibilities of committee secretaries. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I'm going to call you specific numbers so that you don't be surprised at certain, at first glance, distortions to the side of one faction or another. It is simply that the Law “On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” requires us to ensure that the head of the committee, the first deputy head of the committee and the secretary of the committee do not belong to the same faction. So sometimes there's some, so to speak, you might have numbers to figure out why that's the case. With the decision that we go out to you, it was signed by the representatives of each of the five factions, and we came out with the next result. As for the committee heads: by the Party of Regions – 9, by the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” – 7 positions, by “Our Ukraine” – 5, by socialist and communist – by 3. The relationship between the coalition and the ratio of the parties of BUT and our Ukraine is 15 to 12. 12 belong to the coalition, 15 belong to the coalition, and 12 are well-sufficient ratios. With regard to the first intercessors: Region Party 11, BUT 4, Our Ukraine 7, Socialists 5, Communists 1. As for the committee heads' deputies: Region Party 22, Timoshenko Yulia Block 18, Ukraine Party 10, Socialists none, communists two. And as for the secretaries of the committees: Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block 3, Ukraine Party 5, Socialist Party, and Communist Party, by eight. Thus, once again, I would like to stress that we have clearly observed the requirements of both the law and the Rules on the Portional Distribution of Committees. I would like to draw your attention, not so much to your attention as to the attention of those who listen to us, because, unfortunately, some of our colleagues in the last days have started to say that we are not given from the “bar” shoulders by what. or give what they themselves do not want, give committees that are worthless and so on and so forth. So I would like to point out that the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko and our Ukraine have gone beyond the committees of law enforcement, national security and defence, finance and banking, the fuel and energy complex, construction and urban agriculture, the agro-industrial complex, the media, the environment and the Chernobyl issue, the Privatisation Control Commission. So this list of committees is talking about the groundlessness of the charges that the coalition has taken away those committees that are worth something, and the opposition remains just committees that do not deserve attention. Of course, we did not fully meet the requirements of a proportional distribution regarding the number of factions or factions on a committee. I would like to remind you that the quota was seven for the Party of Regions, five for the Yulia Timoshenko Block, three for our Ukraine and one for the Socialists and the Communists. But given the good will and what we said we were going to meet each other and the fact that we were preparing a joint draft decision, we went to this, especially with regard to the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which was a lot of times when we agreed that this faction had delegated more of its representatives to a committee than they did by quota. And another problem that we've been trying to solve, at least on my memory for the past 10 years, and unfortunately we can't do that, is that you and I have decided that the upper limit, the lower limit of each committee of 7 national deputies, and we have one committee that has this limit of 7 just national deputies, and the upper limit of the committee of 20 national deputies. But since we didn't fight in the preparatory group, as we tried to convince each other, it's clear that in the 20th time we went to the Committee on Budget Affairs, in the 20th time we went to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, in the 20th time we went to the Committee on Finance and Banking, in the 20th time we went into transport and communication, in 20 years we went to the Agricultural and Industrial Complex, and so on. So you've probably noticed that after a list of the Committees' personal compositions, we're still proposing that we agree with those proposals to make appropriate adjustments to the decisions that we've made with you and allow you to increase the number composition, the upper limit of one committee or another. This is true of the positions of the first deputies, for in the Committee on Budget Affairs we offer two first substitutes and three just substitutes, and in some committees. Well, they crossed a line that, although it didn't allow two to make substitutes, again with a view to finding compromise, we went for it. And to conclude, my fellow professors, I would like to stress for the transcript that, in final preparation of the decision to leave the world, we have taken into account the following suggestions that have come literally in the last few minutes from "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine," namely, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" is about the Committee on Environmental Policy, and they are here proposing to make such a replacement as the deputy head of the committee to choose Kovtunenko Alejandro Volodymirovich and Abdulina to leave the committee. I mean, it's a BUT offer, you have to agree with it. And the proposal that came from “Our Ukraine” came: to change, to change committees for the people's deputies of Moses and Kelestin, to have Moses on the Committee on Law Enforcement, and to transfer Kelestin accordingly to the Committee on Justice. Here's what I would ask for for a stenographer to take it into account in the final preparation for the release of the document. There he is. And to conclude, dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again what I have begun: that you and I must now make a decision that concerns the fate of each and every one of us. And I would ask that we vote in a consolidated manner for this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u4	Is there a question for Adam Ivanovich? Please. Ask a question from the microphone. Please, the cook is asking for words. Please sign up for questions from your area. Let's take how much? - five to ten minutes, how long? Five minutes, please, five minutes. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u5	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, in accordance with the requirements of part four of article 34 of the Committee's Act, is elected to a committee composed of no more than 10 persons; a committee composed of 11 to 20 persons. The committee’s first deputy and deputy head, and the committee’s 21 members and more of the first deputy and deputy and two deputy committee heads. Why this rule is ignored in the drafting of the decree, this rule of law.? And in terms of proportionality, you worked on a regulatory committee and you know that this committee has a very specific function and all the issues that are being addressed there, or almost everyone has to be resolved by consensus. In this case, the principle of proportionality of representation has been severely violated: from the faction of “Regions” to 10 persons, with the quota of 7 people. Please explain this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u6	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you very much for reminding me of the law. Believe me, and the members of the task force can confirm, they wanted to, even beat me up for wanting to do what you did, the law. But we've come up with a number that we've come up with. Because, you know, as always, when you're handing out jobs, someone's missing something. Although I am completely, I am completely in solidarity with you. I'm also in solidarity with you about whether I've talked about this in my information, or in my report, about proportionality, about proportionality. I don't want to call it specific right now, Sergey Volodymyrovich, but believe me, five or six committees have also been overrun by the Yulia Timoshenko Block. In some, even committees, two or three units.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u7	I want to point out that all the factions were in the working group and all of these nuances were discussed in the working order. Tweezer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u8	If you have given up the post of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, why not include it in our proposed decision and put it to a secret vote? Maybe it's just a farce not to pick our deputy head?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u9	Well, Your Honor, I wouldn't want you to base your accusations on anything you can't blame. And you rightly pointed out that the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, as well as the First Deputy, as well as the Head of the Supreme Council, is elected by secret ballot by means of ballots. The decision that we will be voting with you, which, once again, was signed by the representatives of all five factions, you see their names -- Azarov, Matviev, Tzusko, Zvarič and Turkinov -- is intended to vote in normal mode by pressing buttons. So these are incompatible things, and so the Conciliation Council concluded that it is not worth doing, everything needs to be done as required by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u10	Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u11	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we, on behalf of the faction, have made a written proposal to correct the error of the decision. You've only partially read these suggestions. It is also intended that the Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimük Olga Volodymyryn be a member of the Justice Committee. This does not change the proportions and balance between the coalition and other factions in this committee. We would very much like to consider our offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u13	Roman Mikhailovich, let me not remind you of how many times you've applied for this particular candidature is the first. The second, absolutely not true, you can open the documents and calculate that it does not violate the standards. If Gerasimük, if what I said about Moses and Kelestin had nothing to do with it, because there, in fact, proportions are not broken, then if you take away from the Committee on Freedom of Speech such a well-known journalist, then you have to eliminate another deputy's position there is one thing. And secondly, if you add this candidature to the Justice Committee, then it will be violated that there will be more opposition representatives than coalitions. You can't let that happen, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u14	Not even that there, half the warehouse will be from “Our Ukraine”. Half the composition of the committee will be from “Our Ukraine”. So this is all interfractional proportions broken. Any more questions? Time's up. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u16	Is there a need to make a statement on the basis of the vote? Five minutes for a motive statement, please. Write down who you want. An offer per minute for a talk with a motive. Bondarenko has the word, the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u17	I ask you to pass the word to Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u19	Dear Alexander Alexander, as long as we are here, the month will still be discussed and practically completely deceived, to satisfy everyone, it was not in the previous summons, and it will be in this, and in the future. So I think it's time to finish the discussion. If someone has failed to reach his wish, I think there will still be room for improvement in the working order, because many national MPs will go to the government, I am convinced, out of all factions, not just from the “Regions”. And that's why it's going to be possible to correct the working order. I call now, Alexandre Alexandrovich, to proceed to the vote and to the committees from tomorrow to join the work as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u20	There he asked for the words of Mikola Janović Azarov in this regard, so you would have given him the word rather than acquiesce me for speeding up the vote. Please, Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u21	Hence, respectable colleagues, the matter is very important, and this is the question of all the next five years of Parliament’s work. And that's why there has to be, indeed, maximum justice, and I'm deeply convinced that, despite the fact that the commission worked, let's say, fruitfully, the positions were aligned, yet in every faction there was something that they wanted to say. And that's why I'm going to have a specific offer. It's not so much, but it's giving you the opportunity to speak, well, for three minutes, let's say, a representative of every faction about what representation on committees is going to look like, anyway, a membership of a committee or something. I'm not making that much of my proposal, it's the offer of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, it's perfectly normal, I'd ask you what to put to the vote or what, but give you the opportunity to speak from each faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u22	Thanks for the offer, but once again, the Conciliation Council touched on this issue and all agreed, given the specificity of the matter, to vote together immediately. Because from the point of view of any MP, you can look at this subject differently. But it's a complex issue that's solved only on the basis of compromise. I'm asking that Kurilo make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u23	I'm asking you to give Tomenku the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! I would like to say that we are satisfied with what is in Parliament's understanding of arithmetic opposition. If you think about the category of numbers Adam Ivanovich mentioned, there is arithmetic representation, including our faction. But we are concerned that there is no fundamental understanding of opposition, because we have not approved the Opposition Act and we will demand such a decision. The opposition to status has not been granted to principled committees, which, by the way, are in the Opposition Act, which the Party of the Regions has developed for regulatory, budgetary human rights. And so it's very hard to imagine how the opposition will work. I find it hard to imagine how the Justice Committee, headed by Sergey Kiwalov, would work, thank God that the Committee on Freedom of Speech does not lead Oleg Kalashnikov, has already done so well. So I am absolutely convinced that the more respect for opposition will be in this room, the stronger democracy will be in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u25	Thank you for your suggestions. My word is Michael Azarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u26	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios! Today, the Supreme Council will vote on a very important decision that will determine how the Supreme Council works. In the process of working on this regulation, the faction of the Party of the Regions has made considerable concessions and compromises to achieve stability to organize the normal work of the Supreme Council. Our negotiating partners have given us certain assurances that further work will be done in Parliament and not only in Parliament. That is why we have given the factions of our Ukraine and the factions of Yulia Timoshenko the most important committees on which the work of the Government directly depends. However, we reserve the right to review if this line changes and deviates from those arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u28	To review the difficult compromise that we have reached. That is why I would like once again to call on our parliamentary colleagues to work in a coherent and constructive manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u29	So there was one suggestion, in general, to vote on this draft decree with those remarks made by Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, another faction, I looked at the proportions not being broken, but rather a technical error. We have twice registered with the committee, so Zabolotsky of the Party of Regions is asked to leave the Committee of Foreign Affairs with another committee. And from this same committee, Karacay, to be included in the committee on science and education, the proportions are not broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u31	With all my comments taken into account, I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote. Please. You're going to have to take the line at the end. There's a vote coming. [[17:11:24]] For 285 Please publish by factions. Region Party - 186. Block Timoshenko – 1, "Our Ukraine" – 45, Soccer 32, Communist 21. I think everyone will draw conclusions for themselves, but it's a topic for political scientists. We have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's move on to the next question. About the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of the first session. The documents on this subject are handed out to you. I, as an MP and as Head of the Supreme Council, propose to consider this order, it says that the work of the Supreme Council will be extended to at least 31 July. There will be plenary meetings in the days ahead, except for the middle of next week, where the committee and factions and plenary meetings are scheduled to be held, mostly in plenary mode, I repeat, you have this document on your hands. We discussed it at the Conciliation Council and offered to maintain it. If there are any questions about this, you can ask me these questions, I'll answer them, if we don't have to, let's vote on this order. Then I put to the vote the Supreme Council Order "On the Order of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5 Calls in July 2006" on the basis of the documents you have in your hands. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[17:13:56]] For 289 I'd like the factions to be made public. 186 – Party of Regions, 2 – From the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Our Ukraine – 48, Socialist Party – 33, Communist – 20. Now in order of information, it's a matter of order of the day. As for the Conciliation Council of the Deputies. In accordance with article 68 of the Rules, the Conciliation Board of Deputies is established as an advisory body for the preparation and consideration of organizational matters of the work of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Board consists of: The head of the Supreme Council, his deputies, the heads of the parliamentary factions with the right to vote and the heads of the committees of the Supreme Council with the right of advisory vote. Since the appointed officials are already elected, appointed, and appointed heads of the MP factions, a Conciliation Council has been established in accordance with the Rules. In fact, I make such information that everyone is informed that the Conciliation Council in the Supreme Council is created and that it is able to approach the work mainly in order. Meetings of the Conciliation Council will take place in 11 offices, in a room where the Conciliation Council is traditionally held on the street of Gruszewski. What's the number? 18th, I think. On the other hand, 18/2. And members of the Conciliation Board will be informed of the meeting time at the proper time. About tomorrow. We have many questions to consider for plenary sessions of the committee. These questions are formed, prepared. There is a government proposal for, inter alia, the Budget Resolution and the Conciliation Council to propose such a scheme. Tomorrow the committees will meet in their assigned warehouses and will consider issues related to the order of the day and the issues to be reported to the plenary. So tomorrow, it is proposed not to hold plenary meetings, but to focus on the committee work, so that Thursday at 16 a.m. in the session room, it would be possible, first of all, to consider the budget resolution, but to hold parliamentary hearings on this subject and approve the budget resolution, to approve it, and at the morning session on Thursday, to consider other issues that are dealt with, which are scheduled for the day. We made such an offer to the Conciliation Council. However, since tomorrow’s meeting is scheduled to be adjourned to a more faithful meeting, it is necessary for the Supreme Council to agree not to hold a plenary meeting. So I ask you to support this proposal by voting for a plenary meeting, more faithfully, a committee meeting tomorrow, and a plenary meeting on Thursday and a 16-hour hearing on the Budget Resolution. If there are other suggestions, please. Simonenko. Let's write 5 minutes on the proposal if we need to. From the faction. I'm doing a recording, please. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u32	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I think this is the right position, and we will all support tomorrow's work on the committees and make proposals under our Rules on Thursday's session of the Supreme Council for laws that we can vote on and should vote on. And I want to turn to the faction of "Our Ukraine" to join in that work and agreeing on our positions so that we can sign a deal this week and join you so that we can implement the plan that is planned. Participation, as it were, in the economic committees and the development of a common economic policy, I think that's a constructive position for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u33	Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u34	Valentin Zubov faction "Bloku Yulia Timoshenko". Dear Sanhedrin, we have already received a plan of work of the Supreme Council for the coming week. I would like to ask you a question, most of all, of the Conciliation Council: when do you plan to complete the process of electing the Governing Body, in particular one of the Vice-Presidents? How do I know that the debate on the election of the Supreme Council leadership took place two more weeks ago when the Party of the Regions planned to become a minority? This is when you plan to complete this process and are there any guarantees that this place will be given the place of one of the deputies to the opposition?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u35	If that's a question, I'll answer it after they take advantage of their right to speak. Gritzak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u36	Basil Gretzak, Party of Regions. We think this is a question that needs to be prepared more seriously, and there's an offer to move it to Tuesday, to listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u37	Nicolanca.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u38	Nikolainka, a socialist faction. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, I support the proposal you have made regarding the regulation of the work of the Supreme Council and I would like to say that today we have taken a very good step that has long been expected by society – we have given a good signal today of reconciliation, and many in Ukraine today will say one simple word “at last”. But on occasion I looked at the order that was proposed for consideration this week. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we'll be celebrating Knowledge Day on September 1st, and about six million of our children will be sitting for the party. The Government has amended the "Promising Awards" Act, which introduces the term "National Teacher of Ukraine". [[five calls]] All are higher, middle, preschool, in vocational education, in all fields, and five state premiums per hundred thousand for teachers. Let's see if we can get people to come in on September first, and we know that, you see, teachers get a gift. If we change the budget yet, let's say that the cost of utilities has increased, then we have the whole education and the whole state in general to thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u39	Thank you. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u40	Please tell Roman to the Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u41	Immortal, Our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! In the afternoon for tomorrow, the draft agenda raised the question of the appointment of judges to the Constitutional Court. So tomorrow's proposal is that the factions make proposals on the candidates so that we can, say, consider this issue on the same Thursday and appoint the judges of the Constitutional Court. As for the procedure, if it is necessary to convene a conciliatory council tomorrow, I would like to ask you to support this proposal so that we can consider another very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u42	Thank you. It's pink.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u43	Anton Ruzicki, "Our Ukraine", Party of the Christian Democratic Union. I fully support and agree that tomorrow we have to work on the committees, except that I think there will be organizational issues on the committees, because there are subcommittees, there are members, there are functions, and that needs to be discussed. And I'd also like to ask them to consider and admit members of the High Council of Justice, because there are a lot of members of the High Council of Justice that are accepted very much, they're formally, when they come to the rostrum, they want to take an oath, and so it's made up that we don't allow them. And I certainly support once again that the members of the Constitutional Court should be with us in the Supreme Council, and the Constitutional Court should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u44	Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u45	Please give the word to the leader of the faction Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what is proposed to be considered tomorrow. It is suggested that there be practically parliamentary hearings tomorrow on the budget resolution. On May 15, the government of Yehanurova, which will not be a government after the appointment of the coalition government, introduced a budget resolution as the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2007. So in this case, we have a lot of problems -- which will suggest that the committee should consider and agree to the next government with this budgetary or budgetary policy that the government of Yehanurov has proposed. So I propose that I appeal to the President urgently, that he submit, in accordance with the coalition's proposals, a candidature for approval of the Prime Minister's office and urgently form a government to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m1.u47	I'll answer those questions that were asked by the MPs. Well, first of all, with regard to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I think that in the coming days we will resolve this issue in the way that the Rules provide. And on the Conciliation Council, we discussed this subject, Valentin Alexanderovich, there was no objection to solving it in the way you suggest, and regarding your faction. Regarding Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenka's proposal for changes to the Education Act, I understand that, "For State rewards", please make this proposal, and I think we will look at it and accept it. That would be really good before the first of September. Regarding the Constitutional Court – Roman Petrovich said - true, if necessary, we will call the Conciliation Council. I think we should consider the position of all factions. It may also take time to collect, for example, 114 signatures to support a candidate. This too should be determined by seeking such support. And regarding the Budget Resolution. Peter Mikolaiovich is right, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the Budget Resolution is a technical task for the government, it is the position of the Supreme Council. It's going to be defined and it's going to be from anyone who doesn't make up the government, and it's going to have to follow these requirements. Of course, different programs, but still, this stage that can't be pushed further, because it will have to be made from, I think, a specific budget project from the new government in September. So we've considered these questions. And we have to vote on the proposal that I made: that is, tomorrow we work on the committees, and Thursday we work on the agenda in plenary mode, and at 16 o'clock we'll have a hearing on the Budget Resolution. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[17:27:27]] For 289 Decision taken. That's why I'm asking the factions to announce who voted. “Regions” voted 183 votes, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine” – 53, Socialists – 31 and Communists – 21. I have reason to believe that today's agenda is exhausted to announce a recess until Thursday at 10 a.m. The evening session is closed.
