ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! National deputies of Ukraine are requested to take their seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:22]] There are 416 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. During the joint session, honourable national deputies, the temporary presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the faction leaders came up with a proposal to give time to the factions. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Thank you. I offer five minutes for representations from each faction. Will there be a denial? Thank you. A five - minute proposal for representation from factions is put to the vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[10:01:26]] For 373 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the faction “Our Ukraine”, I understand, will be the national deputy of Ukraine, Roman Petrovich Immortal. Roman Petrovich, please. Prepare a representative from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u2	Dear Mikolo Dmitrovich! Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Today my speech will be much shorter than the Rules of Time. I want to inform you that last night, the three political forces completed their work on the agreement on the text of the coalition agreement. This morning, the preparation of this text for signature began. Final work is being done in factions and party forums of parties that are required by the statutes to decide and authorize the relevant persons to sign such documents. Dear Mikolo Dmitrovic, in this regard, I ask that a break be announced today after the break. Obviously, it would be best if we announced the relevant documents with the signatures tomorrow morning, but tomorrow is one of the most tragic days in the history of our nation's memory, citizens of Ukraine, citizens of the former Soviet Union, so we propose to announce the 23rd in the morning, although we will be ready to present to you in the morning all the documents we need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u3	Thank you, Roman Petrovich. Please, a representative of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I understand, will be the national MP of Ukraine Moroz. Prepare a representative from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u4	Deputies! Dear Radio and Telephony! I think, and Roman Petrovich would have to organize his party asset now in a way that would sign all the documents today and, as we agreed yesterday and agreed to this morning, finish this job today. Frankly, you can be criticized because it's internal affairs, but nevertheless, do it today. That's what it takes to do it, that's what people expect. First. We continue to do this work, indeed, today is being made familiar with the text of the treaty. This agreement will also include Law 3207, as an appendix for which I hope, with the help of the entire Parliament, we will vote by sending it to the Constitutional Court and in September by adopting a law amending the Constitution in part of the authority of local self-government with a view to its entry into force on 1 January. Then we will have a harmonious link between the changes that have occurred in, at the central level of power, increasing authority and the functions of local self - government. For this reason, Roman Petrovich and I are going to finish working on some nuances within the hour. It will be easier to do this because it is a thorough document prepared in the past by a temporary special commission, and so there will be no special problems. I'd like to remind all the radios, the TVs again. Since we've been hearing speculation lately that socialists have agreed to join NATO and so forth, I want to say again, it's all nonsense. In the text of the agreement, in the text of the agreement, once again, I provide that I answer in this case to Communist Kravchenk, which you also argue that these questions will only be resolved after the referendum. I think that's the position that all MPs have, and it reflects social opinion. Let's move on. I think we're entering a qualitatively different system of interaction in Parliament and in society. We need to build on the practice of coalition interaction and opposition. I'd like us to get out of the fact that we're all MPs first. And then on individual issues we can speak with opponents, we can speak, I would say, yes, controlled by the opposition, if a coalition is created in the format that is predicted today or in another format, because it can still be. I realize that's why I'm talking to everyone, no matter what status they're in tomorrow or the next day. And one more principle thing. We need to substantially change or improve the quality of our legislative work. The previous Parliament adopted a bill of law because lobbying was the basis for the adoption of laws. We need to restore or create a system of legislation that will play a different role in raising the quality of work in committees, in factions, and in order to work on those legislative acts that are necessary for society, not for any corporate group or private interest. I think the tasks are difficult for Parliament, and we can deal with them if we are accountable to our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u5	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Please, from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, National Deputy Simonenko, prepare for the representative factions of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u6	Dear voters, dear colleagues! We have been waiting for more than two months to resolve the issue of forming a coalition. How will this happen? We're again assured that let's wait for the 23rd, and all of this will be announced. But it's also obvious that trying to create in society today the idea that this coalition is going to decide something, God forbid, so, really, society already understands that this coalition is not going to solve anything. Because in two years of ruling in the executive branch of power, they failed to resolve what they had promised on the field. But what threats do Ukraine face in connection with these claims to form an orange coalition? One very serious threat is that this coalition will pursue economic cleansing policies in Ukraine. And first of all, the threat is that this coalition is completely dependent on transnational capital. And it's a threat to the destruction of the national economy and its own domestic producer. Those present in this hall in the previous vocation remember our adoption of laws regarding Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization. And that's the one that gives the answer that this is going to start the interests of transnational capital in terms of globalization, and turn Ukraine into a dependent economic territory. That is why we, the Communists, are again addressing all those in this room today who are trying to do good to the people of Ukraine. Which, first of all, we need to do and what laws we need to adopt to stabilize the situation. I'm stressing again on behalf of our faction. In internal policy, we need to urgently introduce a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential transport services today. And that is to stabilize the situation for small and medium - size business, for our domestic producer, for our Ukrainian citizen, who, in despair today, does not know what will happen to him and his family on July 1. This will require a serious start in the fight against the shadow economy, the corruption of power, and this orange coalition will not solve the issue of corruption by authority, because it just, as you remember, began to fight inside itself as if it were corruption, and today the same corruptioners are reunited in the new coalition. It is unacceptable to abolish a number of laws regarding the social protection of citizens in retirement, as required by today’s government. We believe that, first of all, we need to introduce a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land by 2015 at least to stabilize the economy in general in our lives, to introduce a moratorium on the list of strategic enterprises that are not privatised. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think we don't understand that the first thing the orange coalition is going to do is to privatize "The Crucible," the railroad, and everything will go out of the hammer, because the budget gap is terrible, and nothing has been decided. And the government of Yehanurov, you remember, decided in December last year to place 518 objects of the national farm complex under privatization. It's the money that's been eaten again and thousands of unemployed again. To carry out a salary tariff, it has to be done immediately. Liquidate the value added tax. And among the issues that call for a solution today, we consider to propose to the entire Supreme Council a decision to hold in November this year's referendum on granting Russian the status they demand today in the East and in the South of Ukraine. Let the people of Ukraine identify these fundamental issues that divide society: ensuring the development of local self-government is also a problem. In foreign policy, we consider it necessary to recommend the adoption of an immediate law on Ukraine's non-block status, to focus on developing and deepening integration processes within a single economic space, to create a special group of the Supreme Council, deputies and to negotiate with the Russian Duma about what and how the energy market will function. Solve the issue of Ukraine’s entry into the U.S.A. only on the basis of the protection of national interests. We also propose to hold an all-U.S. referendum in November of this year on Ukraine's accession to NATO. Thus, respectable colleagues, the Company, and our faction claim that it is today that we need to unite around those issues that require us to resolve a temporary society. This is the only way to overcome the socio-political and economic crisis, eliminate territorial strife and create conditions to overcome interethnic, linguistic, interfaith and cultural civilisational opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u7	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Please, representative of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, National Deputy Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Prepare a representative from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear friends. Today, indeed, at eight in the morning, when our three political forces formed a coalition gathered together, we were finally reconciled with all the details of the coalition agreement. We've gone completely through all the ingredients, and for today we can say that we have absolutely no differences left. It's saying that today there's nothing to prevent the creation of a coalition of democratic forces in our Ukraine, the Socialist Party, and the bloc that I'm leading. In fact, it might even be said that this fact is already a reality. And I am very pleased to refer to the fact that the three political forces -- "Our Ukraine", our bloc and the Socialist Party -- have managed to break the democratic coalition out of the colossal events associated with the struggle of the clans and with corruption and bribes and terrible things of pressure. We broke democracy for Ukraine by making that decision today. This decision was taken for quite a long time because it was not a simple formal decision — a meeting of signatures. This has been difficult to accept because it is the creation of this coalition by its very essence that the filling of the compound has already determined the course of Ukraine for many, many years ahead. It's really overcoming the remnants of the clan, it's overcoming a completely abnormal phenomenon -- corruption, it's overcoming illegal lobbyism, tinning, and I'm convinced that the main vector that we've identified with you is the movement of Ukraine into the European community, both in internal order, the principles, the standards that we have with you, so certainly, and all that's meant to take us into the European house. I am convinced that such a historic decision was so difficult because they fought against the course itself, not against the coalition, they fought with all possible means. And you and I, all three political forces, won this fight. I congratulate you on this as well as the people of Ukraine. And now I want to report that there are technical procedures that no longer have anything to do with political decision-making, these are formalities that need some time. And that's why I'm convinced that we're going to get through these formalities quickly enough, and we're going to be able to announce in the near future from the Supreme Council's rostrum the fact that we're creating a democratic coalition. I know what the risks are today, because this morning a lot of analysts have started talking from all the channels of radio, television, that "this coalition is created for six months, and, and the coalition will eat itself up, and, look, there will be the same thing that happened after President Yushchenk's victory, and the same destruction." I want to say that there are, really, such risks. There are risks because pressure on this coalition will be both in Ukraine and beyond, in the cruelest way. And I think it's an extremely important challenge for three of our political forces to prove that if we have wisdom, love for Ukraine, loyalty to the cause, then no risk of destroying it six months later, three months later, our unity won't work. And know that more powerful forces will work to make such a negative development plan work. But I want to believe that each of us, out of the 243 MPs who join the coalition of power, will be a sure and major security guard that this doesn't happen. Reason, wisdom, intelligence, and loyalty! I wish everyone good luck!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u9	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Please represent the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy of Ukraine Kushnarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u10	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Today, on another occasion, we have been solemnly announced that the orange coalition will be established. It's nice, but it's not new. Surprisingly, the three factions did not applaud the happy news. The position of the Party of the Regions is well known. Ukraine is in a difficult situation. Ukraine has no future under the same color. We all express the interests of the Ukrainian people. Each of us individually expresses the interests of only part of the Ukrainian people. If we are guided by this ideology, we have no choice but to look for a form of coalition that would solve the main historic task of uniting Ukraine, raising the economy and improving people's lives. We leave, distinguished colleagues, the right to create a new orange coalition for you. We're not stopping it. But we declare to all the Ukrainian people that we do not believe in your ability to address the historic tasks of Ukraine. As much as you love Ukraine, we value the ideals of our constituents. And we don't really care how we defend the interests of our constituents, either in the majority coalition or in the opposition. We will work for Ukraine for the Ukrainian people. We have never put the focus on the position and portfolios, we have not been guided, nor will we be guided by the political situation. We will go the way we promised the voters and for which more than 8 million of our fellow countrymen have voted. You have an opportunity today to confirm your intentions, decide. But I don't think we can take more than Ukraine to this day. We therefore reaffirm the position of the Party of the Regions. Unless a majority coalition is formally announced today, we will proceed with the election of the Supreme Council leadership. Make your choice!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u11	Thank you. The presentation is over. Honorable National MPs, in the course of discussion. Quiet! In the course of the discussion, a proposal came from the representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction of the Ukrainian National MP Immortal Roman Petrovic on the announcement of a break in the work of the Supreme Council until June 23, 2006. Dear National Deputies! Attention! In accordance with article 19, paragraph 2, part 4, of article 20, article 10 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the vote is based on the proposal of the Ukrainian deputy faction “Our Ukraine” to declare a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until June 23, 2006. Turn on the "Council" system, please vote. [[10:22:19]] For-154 Dear national deputies, “for” 154, “against” 30, “retained”. The decision is not taken. Honorable National Deputies, in this regard. Show me the factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 77, “Our Ukraine” – 77, SPU – 0, Communists – 0. Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of the Party of the Regions was named during the factions of the factions. I didn't get the last name, no last name. Crawler? Please, Kravchenko Replica, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u12	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Alexander Alexandrovich, in answer to your question, I would like to say that you have touched my last name in vain. Why? Because I kept telling you that if it weren't for the betrayal of your political power, today would not be Yushchenko or the confederation that is in Parliament today. That's the first question. You're the one who's got the upper hand. And the role of the fitter is always lamentable. And what's on the screen today is also the result of the fight against you as a man of appeal. If you were not attracted, then your political power, Julia Vladimirovna, would never have committed the crime she had committed before the State by opening the borders for import. You would never have, for the first time today we have a negative trade and economic balance on imports. You're destroying your own manufacturer. So open your face and you end up pretending to the people of Ukraine. You want to create again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u13	People's deputies' requests don't call names, because it's going to be a long time. Please, the People's Deputy Frost has the right to reply. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u14	Honorable MPs, respected TV sets and radio audiences. I realize that the name has enabled a person to express what has been said for many years. It is expressed by those who have always been skilled in the Kuchma regime, who created this regime, who fought for President Kuchma in 1994, 1999 who persecuted the Constitution, adopted it, and then started talking about what it should be followed. So I would suggest to them, let's not touch these topics. People are long gone. Clearly, we're losing authority on this fight, but you're losing it even more. So be shocked and do as your program says, not admiring nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u15	Please. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Timoshenko. Right on the line, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u16	Dear friends, first of all, I would like to explain the vote because everyone wants to create a coalition as quickly as possible and announce it today. And I think the sooner we do that, the better. And that's why there's two options today, or we're going to be able to get the signatures in full-time mode today, or we're going to have to move them to 23rd. And I am convinced that normal democratic forces are obliged to assemble both polytrades and their higher political bodies in order to support the creation of such a coalition. And as for the communists, I'm going to say, “You have a wonderful program, but it’s too bad that only three and a half percent of people voted for it, because people don’t just believe that it’s sincere because all the distributions of their interests took place in their eyes.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the proposal from “Our Ukraine” did not get the required number of votes, the other proposals did not come, I announce a break of 15 minutes and ask the leaders of the MP factions to gather on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-21-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, several proposals were made during a joint meeting of the Council’s provisional presidency and representatives of the MPs. The first suggestion to continue the discussion of the agenda and statements by the factions is three minutes. Please prepare for the vote. Turn on the "Council" system. [[11:03:26]] For - 208 versus - 6, held - 0, did not vote - 219. The decision is not taken. Please use fractions: Region Party 162, Timoshenko Yulia Block 3, Our Ukraine 1, SPI 22, Communist faction 20. Since the decision is not taken, the issue of establishing a coalition today cannot be considered, I announce the closing of the High Council’s day. And we have our next meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
