ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u1	The meeting of the Supreme Council continues today, November 14. I'm asking the deputies to register. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:03:01]] We have a negative 439 registered. The number of deputies is enough to get us started. The evening session shall be declared open. On November 14, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy elected on March 26, 2006, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Urban Igor Anatoliyovitch, which was included in the election list of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian National MP, Urbanski Igor Anatoliyovich, please, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u3	Let us welcome the people’s deputies with their responsibilities, and we wish them success in this matter. [[Applause]] You have a daily proposal for a reduced procedure to consider a number of drafts, so I'm putting this proposal to the vote. In the daytime, they are defined for you. Please refer to the introduction of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization in order to consider them by a reduced procedure. Please, there's a vote. Who's "for"? [[16:05:30.]] For the 250. Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals is under consideration. Reported to the head, deputy head, so far deputy head of the President's Secretariat, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u4	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine is introducing a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Export of Customs to Waste and Black Metals. The point is that, over the course of six years, a step-by-step reduction in export duty is proposed for the currency of black metals from 25, from the actual rate of 30 euros to 10 euros today. During the negotiations on Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the requirement of WTO members was to set a zero rate immediately. However, such requirements were not accepted by the Ukrainian side and the proposed phase-out schedule for the corresponding export duty reduction. During the last period, about 35 percent of all black, colored metals were exported through free trade zones, such as Moldova and Macedonia. So there's no export duty at all. The apparent losses from the decline in export duties for the following year, which is the decrease from 30 euros to 25, are the first stage, which is 4.7 million euros. This law is aimed, first, at Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization, and second, at removing quotas for the supply of Ukrainian metallurgical products to the countries of the European Union, which is, in fact, part of Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u5	Thank you. There are no short-circuited questions. Makuha Vladimir Alexiyovich, please reflect on the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! I want to support the secretariat's proposal. I want to point out that providing for the steel industry's needs, which accounts for almost a third of the total volume of Ukrainian exports, is very important for Ukraine's economy. But the production capacity of the steel industry is much larger than the needs of the internal market, so most of the production is for export. And the availability of stable markets for the sale and expansion of metals is no less important than the supply of cheap raw materials to these companies. Well, as an example, we can take our negotiations with the European Union, which identified the interdependence between export duties and access to the EU market for Ukrainian metal products. Indeed, in 2004, Ukraine lost more than 50 per cent of its quota for individual types of metal production to the EU market, amounting to 237,000 tonnes. Therefore, we believe that Ukraine's law to amend the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, which is proposed for your consideration, is the result of a compromise reached on the basis of long-term negotiations involving representatives of metallurgical enterprises, and is one that ensured a balance between metal production and consumption of scrap metal, and provides for a phased reduction in the rates of export duty on waste and black metals from 30 to 10 euros per tonne during the seven-year period, starting with Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. In addition, I would like to point out that the government is being proposed next year, with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007, to make changes to the order in which the tax is paid for the added value of the metallurgical operation. Yes, when metal is exported, external economic operators will not be able to compensate for the export tax at the added cost. This will allow to compensate to the full for the gradual decrease in export duties during the seven years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u8	Two minutes. ..and is the highest economic incentive for the implementation of metal scraps in the internal market. Thus, we can gradually reduce the rate of export duty to cancel the quantitative restrictions on trade in Ukraine with countries of the world, to ensure free access to Ukrainian metallurgical products, including the European Union, which is one of the most attractive of volumes and prices. Therefore, we ask you to support the proposed draft Law amending the Law on Exportation of Black Metals and Wastes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u9	Vladimir Alexiyovich, this is about two projects here: one is presidential, one is governmental. Just a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u10	I have to say that we have absolutely identical projects, so both laws can be supported, any one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u11	All right, have a seat, please. Peter Alexiovich. Peter Alexiovich Dustenko of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u12	Ambassador Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking on October 2, 2006, reviewed the draft Act on Imported Export Customs and Waste, and the currency of black metals, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, you have rightly asked the question: What bill are we going to support? Since the bill, which was registered by the Government on October 20th, is an abs., 2401-1 is exactly the same as the contents, so the committee, when considering its meeting, decided to support the Presidential Bill. We consider it possible to adopt it in the first reading, taking into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In addition, my fellow Members, I would like to point out that tonight you will vote on the Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Taxation”, which is clearly marked by the norm stressed by the Minister of Economics. Since January 1, 2007, and beyond, i.e. this is not the norm of the Budget Act, this is the norm of the Tax Law. Metal scrap is taxed on VAT at zero rate. This means that when metal is exported, taxes on added value are not compensated. So this is how you set up a twenty percent ban?? a duty to be gradually replaced by an export duty. At the same time, we receive the benefits highlighted by the speakers, Yatsenuk and Makuha, that more in the countries of the West against Ukraine, our main markets, will not be subject to any restrictive measures in connection with the settlement of this issue by Ukraine’s legislation. As a result, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the prescribed bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u13	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion: 2 in, 2 in, and 2 in. Please. Sign up: 2 in, 2 in the opposite. Bulba Stepanovich, followed by Pecklusenko. Matvienkov, please, gives it to him. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u14	Thank you. Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we are faced with a very serious choice. A few years ago, a bill was proposed that balanced practically the flow of scrap metal. We remember the times when up to 6.5 to 7 million tons of scrap were exported outside Ukraine. We remember the times when virtually every living thing that we have, the things that contained scrap metal, we remember the times when we were unable to put order through any restraining measures. And then we found a way to stabilize the internal consumption of scrap and exports. We've introduced this wash. During that time, of course, much has changed. Most importantly, the price of a crowbar has risen from $400 to a thousand with extra bracelets, I'm sorry, so far. And the internal market, today consuming about 6 million tons of scrap, is practically debt-free. There is no need today or reason to speak of the problems that existed five to six years ago. But there are a number of questions that need to be answered today. Question one: what will lose the budget in the way that we have today? With the constant rise in the price of scrap metal, a percentage-to-price mechanism could be considered so that when prices rise, we have a percentage increase in some kind of duty that goes into the budget at all times. This is the first moment. Second moment, who will answer the question of what we will get after this is implemented, the adoption of this law: How are we going to ensure an internal market, how are we going to increase exports? How much will this increase take place, which will happen to the market for scrap inside our country, what will happen to the market for scrap on exports, how will the world economy react to this? That is, there is a need for clearer, more scrupulous calculations, a more serious approach. That is why we have dealt with the matter very carefully at the faction and have considered it, particularly from the point of view of the State. They made a decision. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u15	I mean, this is how I understand that in the first reading, you're backing up with your second reading. Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u16	Faction of the Regions of Ukraine, Pecklusenko. Metallolam is now more than scrap metal in our country, so it really needs to be considered very carefully, as a sector of the economy, not only metallurgical, but also of many regions and people. In addition, we understand that scrap metal is also a sector of the shadow economy. Therefore, after a careful examination of both bills, our faction supports the bill governmental. Because it's blown up in time, first of all, for seven years. Secondly, he is more clearly answering the questions that our colleague Matvienkov has highlighted. We support the Government's version of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u17	Thank you. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u18	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u19	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respected colleagues. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the bill. At the same time, we are not opposed to joining the WTO. We are defending the interests of our producer in Ukraine. What is the point? This is primarily so that our metal produced in the metal combination of Ukraine is competitive. So we have to have cheap raw materials, the same scrap metal that we don't have to export outside Ukraine, and here we have to flow metal, then we have to process it into technology science and sell it abroad. Then we'll be a strong state. That is, a strong domestic producer is the foundation of a strong State. Import dependence, i.e. imports from abroad, is a weak State. We Communists are against it. Secondly, this will certainly impact the country's budget very seriously. And by the way, Alexander Alexandrovich, do not go any further here, this issue has not been studied by the Committee on Budgets, but will be severely affected by the 2007 budget. And we should have conclusions from the Budget Committee. Next. We must also take into account the fact that this will necessarily lead to a re-inclusion: hatches will be removed, cartridges removed from the house, electric lines cut out, etc. We've been through all of this. And we are offered the new will of this economic lawlessness. I support our colleague Matvienkov's statement in this case that this is a very serious and political and economic and socio-economic issue. Therefore, we believe that such actions are limited to, in fact, to the position of the national producer, especially in the metallurgical complex, and that the draft law relating to the colourful fracture would in general be an act of national treason if such things were to continue to be put to the vote in Parliament. The Communist faction would not support and would continue to protect the domestic producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u20	No one's signed up anymore. A brief summary of the discussion. Sergei Matvienkov made it clear that there are certain warnings and that the standards governing these issues should be prepared for the second reading. Regarding the need for consideration of this document by the Committee on Budgets. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, none of the members of the Conciliation Council objected to the consideration of this issue today at the sessional session, meaning, I understand all the arguments. Please. Moreover, it is obvious that the Minister of Industry should also conclude on this document, and since he was voting in the government for the project, it is obvious that this minister’s position should be taken into account. So I want to draw attention to the difference between a government project and a presidential project. The government project envisages a 7-year process of adapting this law, or, more faithfully, the procedure for exporting metals to the final standards that give rise to some warnings and that can be adequately prepared by taking measures here in Ukraine, particularly developing an internal market. So I have to put to the vote first the presidential draft, because it came early, and then, if these votes are not enough, we will put in a government project. Please vote in favour of the Presidential version of this project. [[16:20:59]] For 177 There's not enough voices here. I'm pointing out that the government project differs from the President's only entry for one year, more loyally, with a one-year extension. Please support this project government based. [[16:21:30]] For 392 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u21	Yes, we are moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, registration number 2391. I'd like to remind you that we're dealing with a reduced procedure. First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich, reports. Please. Get ready from the Committee of Sergey Ryzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine introduced the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. It's about essentially technical changes to the law. This law is extremely complex, and I would like to point out that the basic elements of this law are not applied in Ukraine until today. And that idea of a law that predicted the creation of an organized agricultural market was, unfortunately, not implemented. There are a number of rules in this law that conflict with both domestic law and the legislation of the World Trade Organization. This is about setting minimum export and import prices for government price items that have never been applied and will never be applied in Ukraine. That's the first question. The second question. This is about the introduction of quotas for exports, as well as the import of appropriate government price regulations. The issue of the quota of any goods relating to exports and imports has already been addressed in the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Activity Act and will be further regulated by the Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Foreign Economic Activities, which was presented in the Supreme Council at a previous meeting. In view of this, it is proposed to delete 3 articles of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture in order to bring the law into line with domestic legislation and to comply with the World Trade Organization Agreement on Agriculture. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u23	Thank you. Please sit down. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergei Mikolayovich Ribuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations supports what Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk just said. Both the matter and the matter go, more faithfully, not only to exclude those articles of the law that did not work and did not work, which, excluding them, allows Ukraine to draw closer to the WTO. The point is that, according to the Committee, the adoption of the provisions of the bill will require the processing of appropriate conditions and mechanisms for obtaining the following year and years of State support for the production of certain types of agricultural products, which are related to state-of-the-art regulation with the determination of the obligations of the parties in the implementation of such products. Since, according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, State support for agricultural production should be directed towards ensuring a state’s food balance and a competitive market for domestic production, not to the uncontrolled export of such products outside Ukraine, especially by the unorganized commercial market. So I think it won't hurt, and maybe we don't need to get enough, stick to these articles that govern, quota and limit exports, and above all, exports. And in the draft law on the economic and social development of our state for 2007, which was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, there are clear positions on how we can move from these administrative constraints and quotas to the direct support of the farmer. I think the Cabinet needs to agree with this approach, and the committee is recommending a project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, please register green – “for”, red – “against”. Yes, please, Vasil Bogchuk, the Socialist faction. Barana microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law is essential. The point is that there are two positive moments. When we used to rely on minimum, maximum prices, I wouldn't say we've never used them, we used this mechanism, but today instead of the notion of minimum, maximum prices, we enter maximum, minimum intervention purchases. So the price that gives you a signal that you have to buy some kind of product, or, let's say, throw it on the market, do product intervention when it goes up in price. The second question. An expanded list of products that are subject to price regulation for intervention. When we used to regulate prices at a minimum, maximum only wheat grains, grains, and cream butter, today this list has expanded considerably, and this will have a pretty positive impact on both the manufacturer and, above all, our consumers. At the same time, I would like to point out, in this case, to the government, that there is a need to review some of the laws that have been passed earlier in terms of import duties for one or the other products that import them. The point is that when it was possible, let's say, to set 5 to 10 percent of the imported customs, there were questions and a zero rate was set, which is quite a hit on our manufacturer. Like what? Apples imported from the same Moldova, or perhaps from other allied or close neighbors. That's why there's such a need to examine it. So the faction of socialists supports the law in the first reading, and until the second reading we hope it will be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u27	Thank you. Please, Kravchenko passes the word to Alexander Tkachenko. Microphone, please. Get ready for Kirilchuku. Turn on the mic of Alexander’s Wrist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I think what we're doing today when we're re-examined the bills of entry into the U.S.A., is anti-government action. And I don't understand why people are acting like that by voting 390 votes or more. I think we've forgotten what state we represent. But I want to say for the agro-industrial complex. Price distortion today is one that cannot allow Ukraine under these conditions to join the WTO. And the second. Call me today, please, who spoke from this rostrum, including Yatzenyuk, a country where agriculture is not a country’s problem. Poles now reach 750 euros per hectare, and we put 30 euros in the 2007 budget. With whom will we compete, and in what market? Let's think about it. We have no right to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u29	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u30	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Indeed, this bill needs to be discussed in depth and made a final decision, but not now. It needs to be supported in first reading, but it can't be accepted definitively, because in this bill, in fact, agricultural producers lose, but how much they lose and how they don't count. And I think it would have to be calculated, and what compensation would be paid for the benefits of the international market for additional bars or extra profits, from which to switch to compensation for these losses to farmers. I know that the metallurgical sector and many others will have big profits because the one who doesn't go to the market can't buy anything and can't sell it. Because of this in the WTO, we should be, but such a position, such a policy regarding the village and agricultural production should certainly be provided on a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, registration number 2391. [[16:32:12]] For 396 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 180, Block Timoshenko – 111, Our Ukraine – 72, Socialists – 30, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 3. A draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products is under consideration. Here we have two bills: 2392 and 2392-1. Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. According to Bill 2392, President Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, the first deputy head of the Office of the President, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to start by saying that there will continue to be four bills that have been drafted both by the President of Ukraine and by the Cabinet of Ministers. So 2392 and 2392-1 are essentially the same bills. However, the project introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers has additional technical remedies that the President of Ukraine agrees with. In order for the vote to be effective, the President agrees to accept the joint text agreed with us in the consultation process set out in Bill 2392-1. As far as the substance of the law is concerned, it is a matter of repealing the rules of the Milk and Milk Products Act, which, unfortunately, were also never used in the current economic regulation of Ukraine. It's about, what's called export milk subsidies, and it's about setting minimum milk prices. In fact, this is also the answer to the previous questions about the bloc's direct subsidies to the agrarian sector. It's not about the existence of an instrument today in a particular law, it's about the lack of funds in the State Budget. And in that case, if the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the current year provides for appropriate rural aid instruments, it will in no way conflict with the rules of the World Trade Organization if such amounts of subsidies are provided for in the overall size defined in the process of negotiations for Ukraine's entry into the WTO. I mean, once again, the absence of a specific tool does not mean that it is not possible to help the farmer properly. Thus, the law excludes instruments that do not work in the current economic system of Ukraine, which are administrative price regulation, such as setting a minimum price for milk and such as export subsidies that are not operational at all. In Ukraine's current turnover. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, it's a government bill. The First Deputy Minister of Economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, represents. Get ready for the Ribubu committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! As Mr. Yatsenuk has already said, these bills are, in fact, close to their essence. I just want to say a little bit about this bill very briefly. First of all, this is a deletion from the text of the Act on Milk and Milk Products, which provides support for the export of dairy products. Today, this mechanism does not work, and it does not change anything against the existing situation. The other one. The bill proposes to remove pricing provisions in the area of milk, milk and milk products since the relevant issues are already regulated by the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, as well as the Law on Prices and Prices. The third is the establishment of quotas for agricultural producers for the production and sale of milk. These quotas do not work today, and they cannot actually work because it is production that has not yet reached the size when it comes to setting such quotas. Fourth: The draft law proposes to remove the position of the dairy market promotion fund that was to be created on the basis of the accounting of dairy producers and processors. To conclude, the position on export support, quota, milk production, the creation of a milk promotion fund is not in line with the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, which is a framework and fundamental one that defines the foundations of State policy in the agricultural sphere. So by adopting this law, we're not going to make it any worse by adopting this law, by adopting any iota, by not making the agricultural situation worse, or we're going to agree on laws that exist, we're going to preserve existing and working mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Ribuk Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which deals specifically with milk and milk products, reflects a previous law that has already been passed and, above all, in the opinion and conviction of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, it will also reduce administrative intervention in the production and implementation of milk and milk products. But the difference between the bill submitted by the President and the bill drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers is that it not only cancels subsidies and prices for milk, but it's presented in a different edition, i.e. the drafting of the current law on milk and milk products says that price subsidies, prices for milk. And the Cabinet of Ministers, without cancelling this position, suggests that we put in a different edition that only the milk of the unconsumed upper, first and second species, or the vertices uncompressed as objects of the budget grant. I mean, I think we have an option here to solve the problem of solving this node -- joining the World Trade Organization and allowing it to support as a budget subsidy for producers of milk and milk products directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u37	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, are they willing to speak? Then, “yes”, “against”. Please. Yeah, well, maybe we're either writing it wrong or we're changing our minds. Yes, Bogchuk – “against”, faction, “for” – is more faithful. Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u38	It's a faction of socialists. Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, the faction of socialists supports the bill in the first reading and, at the same time, wants its warnings that should be taken into account when adopting the Law in the second reading. We are asked to withdraw the export subsidy when importing our dairy product abroad. I want to say that all the countries of the WTO, the European Union in particular, are using this export subsidy. And the law is pretty much written, I'd say, in a European way, that we're making changes. The thing is, if we don't have the money today and we don't make it, we don't have the export subsidy, then tomorrow they might show up, whether there's a need for a state to support milk production when it's exported. The European Union does not grant export subsidies if products are sold within the European Union. But if only outside the European Union, an export subsidy is immediately in place. The following, milk quotas, production, too, are trying to rule out. Today, 80% of milk is produced in the private sector. We're not going anywhere from large-scale production, we're going to go back to that, and the sooner the better, because if we don't get back to that, in three years, we're going to be looking for dairy again in Poland or in other countries. In large - scale manufacturing, it is also compulsory for WTO countries, especially in the European Union, to use quotas, that is, regulations for the production of a product for which the State provides support. And if he produces more of his quota, the product no longer receives State support. So I also support previous reporters that there is a more real need to support the government bill, just as it is more extensive to protect our producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u39	Yes, thank you. Please, Tachenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! I think that there was a minister and a minister, and they made quite a difference. I'm not just in defense or against, I'm just saying that we're losing large-scale production today, and we don't have a practically automated cow-feeding system. European society will never allow us to enter its handmade product market. Today, Baranowski just said, 80% is made by hand. What's the market for, what's the competition for? We will get our people, our producers, as we call them, by entering and implementing this law, which will be voted again today in 390 or 400 votes. So the faction of the Communists will not support it, they will speak against it. And we urge everyone, if we want the good to Ukraine, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u41	Thank you. Please, Yaduha.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw attention to what we are considering today and to recall the word at all. Milk and dairy products are not one that, unfortunately for a few orders today is more valuable than what concerns our population today. On this Sunday, whoever went to meetings with people in populated areas once again found that today, especially in agrarian areas, agrarian areas, all that was said, people are asking one question: collective farms are broken down, it is impossible to return them today. And really the main hope is for those cows that are in the support farm. And the question is, how and when will the state provide a normal price for milk? Why is it two or three times lower than the price of water, and to explain, of course, very difficult. Therefore, the proposal of Law 2392 is to abolish Article 17 on the pricing of milk, milk and milk products, where the Cabinet of Ministers, and all the arrows go directly to power, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to set a minimum purchase price for milk and milk raw materials, to compensate for the basic regulatory costs and to ensure the minimum revenue for the manufacturer, and to ensure that the limits of trade allowances are maintained. And that's why we're against the adoption of 2392 of this bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports Government Bill 2392/1, which is in principle similar to the previous one, with the exception of the proposal for article 16 of the Ukrainian law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u44	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko We do not have the opportunity to ask the rapporteurs the question which of the States, when signing the protocol, has made such demands that we have to eliminate the 18th and almost the 19th articles of this law. I think the authors and the first version and the Cabinet of Ministers have not worked on this law. Because we're not going anywhere, we need to get into the SATs. But finding another option to support our milkmaker is and there are many, but no one wanted to think about it. It's practically going to cut cows today, and if we don't make sure that, in fact, the person who makes it, whether it's carnivorous or hand-fed, it's less principled. I think that the second reading of these two articles requires a completely different interpretation of the document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance, I'm sorry, I'm reminding you that in the report, more specifically, the first Deputy Secretary of the President's Department was saying that the President agrees that we support Bill 2392-1. So I'm just going to put this bill to the vote. Please vote. [[16:47:24]] For 394 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 184, “Block Timoshenko” – 105, “Our Ukraine” – 73, Socialists – 30, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. A draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, registration number 2393, is under consideration. Jacenjuk Arseny Petrovich will report, please. Get ready for Rybuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, it is about making changes to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. This law is essentially similar to the previous law, which was approved last week, namely with regard to the amendment to article 9, to the Law on Medical Devices of Ukraine. This is about protecting the intellectual property rights of manufactured chemicals, such as mineral fertilizers and other chemicals. When documents are submitted for registration for the use of a chemical, such as mineral fertilizer chemicals, a file is provided. The results of chemical, microbiological, microchemical, and other bacteriological studies are added. The purpose of the law is to protect for 10 years, I emphasize, for 10 years, the right to appropriate intellectual property. Disclosure or transfer of such information to others may take place until the time of the ten - year term is reached only if there is an appropriate agreement between the manufacturer of the appropriate chemical formula and the person who wants it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u47	Thank you. From the committee, Sergey Ribhuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u48	Dear National Deputies! In short, the bill proposes to amend article 7 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals with a ten-year term for protecting information that is not publicized in the case of the registration of pesticides and agrochemicals. So during the period indicated, no other applicant will have the right to refer to documents, i.e. files submitted by the first applicant, owner of pesticides and agrochemicals. The adoption of the bill will undoubtedly contribute to the safety of pesticides and agrochemicals and to improving their quality control, as well as to the creation of a transparent competitive environment in the market for plant protection products and agrochemicals. It's suggested this way because there were sharp discussions around the formula itself about how to spell out the term correctly. If pesticides or agrochemicals are registered in Ukraine, they are prohibited for a period of 10 years from the date of registration without the permission of the owner of the material, the safe use of pesticides, or agrochemicals for the registration of other drugs. That is, it must be added to the registration of other drug forms, since other information may be available, which is not a secret. I mean, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, having reviewed its meeting and recommended to the Supreme Council that it adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u49	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I remind you again. We have a little bit of a mix-up, because those who are opposed are recorded as being behind, those who are behind, are recorded as opposed. So I remind you that those who want to support the bill press the green button, those who oppose the bill have to press the red button. It's recording the performance. Wrong again. Please, Simonenko. And there's only one sign-in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u50	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like all of you to draw conclusions from the messages of the media when events took place in the Nikolaev region or what is now in Sevastopol. First. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the draft on the following basis. We are for the State to control the production and implementation of pesticides. Because they're poisons that destroy weeds, just like they're dangerous to human life. Secondly, today we must understand that we, the Communists, are proposing, first of all, that we, in our climate zone, bring in our concentration. Here, our factories are already reprocessing them according to what will ensure the most beneficial use of these substances under our climate conditions. And, of course, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in our factories, these are a military-industrial complex, chemical reagents, they've produced the right drugs that were used in Ukraine in accordance with the climate zone. Today it is being driven, and for years it has been in different warehouses of various pesticides, which are, in fact, used and incorporated by the State without proper control. The consequences, we can only assume with you. The economic benefits of certain so-called businessmen have become a tragic consequence of the destruction of our people's gene pool. This is, of course, all that has to do with the health of the people today is with the health of our children. What kind of milk will they use, what cucumbers, tomatoes will they use? We face one problem every year: we bring early watermelons, and we cannot, we are afraid to feed the children with early watermelons, because we do not know what and what purpose has been made to make the economic benefits of reddish watermelon become, so to speak, a basket for individual and tragedy for others. The Communist faction therefore calls for no vote in favour of this, and above all to implement the State policy of producing and implementing these pesticides.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u51	Well, why didn't my monitor show me, well, please turn on Kirilczuk's microphone. They've been writing down badly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u52	Kirilchuk, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. It's just a law that, if we weren't afraid of pesticides, herbicides, jadechemics in general, agriculture can't exist today. Weeds, pests, and diseases must be dealt with. But in view of the fact that Ukraine practically produces nothing of its own but mainly imports everything, we fear for our secrets in the manufacture of our poisons and herbicides. If we adopt this law and start producing some yadechemics, it's going to be on our side that we're going to be able to keep secret what's produced in Ukraine. But already saving, using, and everything else about plant protection products, there's a completely different side. And really, it's a cruel place to control them cruelly. That's another question. So this bill is more for our benefit than for our harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm talking to Arsenius Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, can we vote on the committee's proposal in his statement, as a whole, as a law? We can. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the draft Law amending article 7 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, bill number 2393, taking into account the proposals made by the representative of the Professional Committee. Votes as a whole as a law. [[16:56:46]] For 380 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 180, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 98, Our Ukraine – 69, Socialists – 28, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 5. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar is being considered. The first will be reported by Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, please. Prepare the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! A proposal is made by the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. Today, there are three types of quotas in Ukraine: A, B and C quotas for sugar. Quota A. This is a quota that is used exclusively for the supply of sugar to the internal market. Quota B. This is the quota used to supply sugar under international contracts. And the C quota. This is a quota that allows certain manufacturers or businesses to implement sugar exclusively for export. Usually, quota C does not specify at all. The quota B was set at 165 000 tons in 2006, with an actual volume of about 50,000 tons. Under this draft law, it is proposed to leave only quota A. So this is the quantity that can be used exclusively for internal consumption. From this point of view, under the adoption of this law, any other sugar that will be produced outside the “A” quota cannot be used for internal consumption in Ukraine. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u55	Thank you. Yes, please, the Cabinet of Ministers bill. Makuha Vladimir Alexiyovich. Get Ribuku ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which is presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, provides for two main points: the first, from the text of the current Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar, removes the positions that apply to quotas “B” and “C”, i.e. quotas that determine the volumes of supply outside Ukraine under international treaties and the quota “C” of sugar, which is intended to be implemented by owners only outside the country. The restrictions on the compulsory export of sugar produced in Ukraine from imported raw materials are also lifted. We believe that the adoption of the bill will not result in a loss in the internal consumer market of sugar produced from peanuts. Why? Since imports of cane sugar from cane are subject to high customs tariffs – 50 per cent of the customs value – and are taxed in addition to income taxes, the value added tax is another 20 per cent, which is a major obstacle to the critical increase in imports. In addition, taking into account trends in the external market in price increases for sugar and the increased use of sugar from alternative fuels, there is an opportunity for Ukraine to increase its exports of sugar to the international market. And the last thing I'd like to say is that the main risk for the development of the beet-sugar sector is not the liberalisation of the internal market. The problem lies in the very area of overcapacity, overcapacity in manufacturing equipment. And here I have to say that out of 192 sugar factories, over 60 were built by the end of the 19th century. Fund endurance exceeds 70 percent. I'm not talking about the power of our factories anymore and the fact that we, we have a process of processing is absolutely not optimal, it's about 30 to 40 days less than the optimal cycle of sugar processing. Therefore, the most important thing for us today is our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u58	The most important thing is that it involves investment, activation, the modernization of the sugar sector, because of the development of internal competition in the internal market for sugar. So, based on these considerations, I ask you to support the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the Committee of Sergey Ribuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! At a time when the Supreme Council adopted an existing law, the State of course produced much more sugar and was not just a expectation. And what's going to work is the "B" quota and the "C" quota and it's going to come to the state and we're going to regulate, repair export-import operations for sugar. But, as we see today, in a number of years, the sugar quota under international contracts, and this is the quota for the implementation of sugar by owners solely outside Ukraine, have not found their practical application. It could still be left behind, but if we are going at such a pace before joining the WTO, we may have to agree here. And we're also going to cancel the mandatory removal of sugar produced from imported raw materials, but we're going to be looking at another draft law that regulates this situation quite civilizedly, and we're going to talk about it. At its meeting of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, the Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Act amending the Law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar, considered by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers as a perfect foundation and as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, those who push the green button against the law press the red button. Please show me on the board. To see who signed up. True, you do not see who is “in favor. ” Simonenko signed up for it. Please. Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u62	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, respected voters, especially those who grow sugar beet. I signed up to draw attention and invite my fellow people's deputies to vote for our national pride with you, for having to protect our own peasant with you. This is the case with respected voters, especially Vinnitskaya, Hmelnicka oblast, Kyiv region, Cherkasska region – the areas where we produce and grow sugar beet. First, this draft law, in fact, introduces a quota for internal sugar consumption, i.e., as far as we can consume, we no longer have the right to produce. And this is about the more serious consequences, and I, the well-respected electorate, am addressing you. This is going to be cut down again on the scrap metal of tens of sugar factories, and those settlements where 5,000 or more of our peasants live, that's social infrastructure, you're going to have tens of thousands of unemployed again. This is the most monetary-intensive industry that makes a profit to the State when it is properly asked. And I want to ask our people, including the President and his supporters: what have you done to make the sugar produced in Ukraine sell around the world so that we can get the currency here so that people can have a lot of work here? It's also fuel. And if we are to destroy tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of hectares of sugar beet growing today, we must not forget that we are destroying science, we are destroying the agriculture that is producing appropriate equipment, we are destroying today the prospect of Ukraine's development in terms of the cultivation of many crops on our land and food security. This is again today's reprocessing and profit from what we have in the long processing of sugar beet. This is, therefore, support, including animal husbandry, if you look more closely at the problem. The Communist faction will therefore vote against.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u63	And they signed up for it. The same Tomenko, signed up for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I'd like to, you see, even after me, the discussion is hard, because it's a very serious and responsible bill. And it's not about what our colleagues said, that life has changed, that nothing needs to be regulated. Life has changed so that more regulation is needed. Because today, if you go to our area, for example, in Ternopilsk, you'll see that the villagers are driving the sugar beet from Ternopilsk to Hmelnitsk region, because in the Ternopilsk region they're offered to give up these beetroots for a year. Therefore, we need to approach very carefully and calmly. The first is that we need to calculate and see, taking into account objectively the increase in sugar production over the past two years. And this year, more than 2 million million tons of sugar are planned. So if we're talking about the import quota, you have to understand how much it takes to keep our sugar companies from losing their jobs and the factories from stopping. Second, if we import, we need to understand why we import. Let's say that if it's for factories that work to process ethanol there, or if it's something else that needs to be done, that's what we have to do. But this should be clearly settled. Above all, there is still a major problem with the fact that we do not have the Ministry of Economics implementing the Law. The existing Law that we leave is clearly stated that the minimum prices for sugar beet should be set annually, taking into account inflation, profitability, and so on. I ask myself, ‘ Why can a farmer today set the price of money and no one responds to it? Does the Antimonopoly Committee know the situation in the market today? Because when we had a price surge, the Antimonopoly Committee decided that several companies had arranged and raised sugar prices. Thus, even the law’s active drafting needs to be done by the Antimonopoly Committee and the Mineconomy. Then there will be order in this market.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u65	So I didn't understand, are you in favor or in favor? Although they were written “for. ” Dustenko signed up against the bill. Please give him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I took the example of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, who signed up “for” and I will vote “against”. I pressed the “against” button, but for political reasons, according to the faction's decision, I will vote in favour. But only for the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Because in fact, the situation in which the sugar industry is now in a situation where the prices for plant protection products, the prices for minibars, the prices for transport services, particularly for rail tariffs, the price of sugar beet rose at times, the price of ready-made production of peasants remained at the same level. And today, even without cancelling the corresponding quotas, agricultural enterprises that grow sugar beet and the enterprises that are processing it have now flown half of them out of bankruptcy. And without the adoption of this bill, we can lose half the sugar sector for today. So there is a guaranteed proposal for the Ministry of Economics to take the necessary steps to preserve this basic industry of Ukraine by maintaining prices at a level that covers the cost of production by farmers. And thesis number two: When this bill is being finalized for second reading, it is necessary to take into account the weights that the Ministry of Economics would have to keep in mind in order to prevent the destruction of drilling farms by importing cane sugar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u67	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. But your statement showed that you were registered correctly because you were against the law. Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please, Dry, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u68	Adam Ivanovich, I would ask, I'd write down the red button, the extreme button, or the right button, "against" but for some reason I'm not on the list. How does this system work? Dear colleagues, I would ask everyone during the vote, especially the discussion of the so-called Soviet laws, to pay more attention to the possible social consequences that they will have, for example, for our manufacturer, and especially in terms of the implementation of the poverty-relief strategy. So I'm paying attention to the fact that Bill 2394 cannot be voted for. Bill 2394-1, on the other hand, contains a standard for repealing provisions for the compulsory export of sugar produced from imported raw materials. Yeah, on the one hand, we're getting a competitive environment among sugar producers in Ukraine, but we're not going to let sugar prices grow sharply in 2005, because we're going to have enough sugar in our stocks. So I urge you to vote in favour of Bill 2394-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'd like to consult you. There was a proposal for a profile committee to accept it as a law as a whole. Will there be a denial? There's a denial. So I'm just going to put it on the first reading. And because Arsenius Petrovich, speaking, informed that the President was in agreement, and he named what bills, including this one, that we should vote on only one bill, namely a government bill. So I'm going to put the adoption vote on the basis of the first reading of Bill No. 2394-1 amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulations on the production of sugar. [[17:12:39]] For 384 Decision taken. And one more draft law, two more bills of law in the section of the shorter procedure. These are projects of 2395 and 2395-1 establishing a tariff quota for imports into Ukraine of cane sugar. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Get ready, Makusi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. This is one of the most complex laws since Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. So I would like to remind you of a short history where the sugar quota came from. The first protocols were signed as early as 98 on imports of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine. You know that today sugar-sparing sugar is the cheapest and, in fact, sugar-sparing is a few categories more competitive than beet sugar. During Ukraine’s negotiations with members of the World Trade Organization, there were extremely large and complex things in part of this tariff quota. Yes, unfortunately, the individual officials signed prior agreements to allow the import of 408,000 tons of sugar-sparing sugar, and already in negotiations with Australia, it was possible to deflect this figure from 408,000 tons to 260 thousand tons. Moreover, previous agreements have also been signed that for an amount exceeding 260,000 tonnes of quota, the rate will not be 50% as foreseen in the last protocols, but 15%. In view of this, it is proposed that 260 thousand tons be imported. The distribution of this tariff quota should be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. What is 260,000 tons? 260 000 is in the area of 12% of the total consumption in Ukraine. The key issue today in the sugar quota is not the quota, because, for example, in 2003, 398,000 tons of sugar quota was imported into Ukraine under official statistics. Unofficially, between 300 and 400,000 tons of quotas, the corresponding sugarcane under various designations, are imported into the state under various schemes. The language today is the following: In order to keep the internal price on the market, the State Reserve and the Agrarian Fund, which today do not hold the price, must work. And it's not about 260,000 tons of quota, it's about the absence of real ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u72	In the absence of real tools to influence the agricultural market. This applies to both sugar and all other agricultural products. I would like to emphasize once again that the Cabinet of Ministers has passed a similar bill, so please support 2395-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u73	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Yes, please, Minister of Economics. Vladimir Alexiyovich, please. Prepare Rybuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, there is a bill setting tariff quotas for imports of cane sugar from Ukraine. As Arsenija Petrovich said, the bill provides for an annual quota of 260,000 tonnes with an import duty rate of 2 percent. It's already been told how this quota was defined. According to the World Trade Organization and the World Trade Organization, a country that is willing to join this organization should provide access to its market for goods and services. And in the process of the WTO accession negotiation process, countries that were interested in delivering sugar-sparing cane sugar express conditions for reducing tariff protection for sugar markets. However, Ukraine stood at a 50 - percent rate of import duty, which is essentially a ban. And the stated rate of import duty is, in principle, unacceptable to WTO member countries and is considered an effective way to preserve this level of sugar protection and one of the effective ways to preserve this level of sugar protection was to establish a tariff quota. Two - way protocols have been signed with traditional sugar exporters from Australia, Cuba, Brazil, Paraguay, India, Colombia, El Salvador. It should be noted that Ukraine's membership in the WTO requires reform of the agricultural sector, as has already been said, including modernization of sugar plants, which should be equipped with modern equipment, which will also increase the competitiveness of Ukrainian sugar. Of course, this context raises questions about how to protect a domestic producer, and we have such resources in line with the dumping legislation, which can be used more effectively even in the context of free trade. Such protection should help to structurally rebuild this sector, create conditions for the emergence of large, technically armed agricultural enterprises. On the basis of this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, Sergey Ribuk from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u76	Dear national deputies, at the beginning of the negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, discussed various volumes of imports of sugar-sparing. From 1200 tons, then 560, 400, 360. Today, it's finally coming out, and it's going to be 260,000 tons. I would like to remind the Supreme Council that all of the previous calls of our colleagues have been made by the Supreme Council annually independently or have been considered on the subject of the WTO's entry into separate decisions and have been taken by the Supreme Council's decision to allow these 260 and not just thousands of tons of sugar. And as you can see, there are 117 factories left, and that's how they work. And we're a million eight hundred thousand tons of sugar produced and stabilized on this indicator. But when the Agrarian and Land Relations Committee considered the bill, we were advised that the government, considering this law, had foreseen in paragraph two that sugar cane sugar, which would be imported into Ukraine within tariff quota 2, Ton, i.e. used exclusively for the production of fuel ethanol. The committee believes that another formula, other volumes, as is the case today in the negotiation process, is difficult to find and asks you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u77	Thank you. Please sit down. Shall we discuss it? We will. Yes, once again, I refer to the "Council" system and to you, dear colleagues, because the "Council" is hardly wrong. Clearly, we're not pushing anything that hard. Who wants to support the bill is the green one who goes against it is the red button. Well, this time it's like it's all right. Yes, Silchenka, please. Get ready, Costenko. On screen, but you each have a personal screen. Of course, there's no Selchenk, but the faction has the right to speak. Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Socialist faction of Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that lessons in the destruction of the sugar industry in Ukraine have brought more than a million tons of sugar-sparing sugar. And I'd like to say that this year, more than 2.4 million tons of sugar will be produced, or two years from now, of sugar production. The last one, it's about 700 tons. That's the answer for those who pushed ships under Odessa last year, and so to speak, they created a sugar crisis, which is a problem in Ukraine. And today they're saying they're big advocates. So, your honorary colleagues, 260,000 tons, the protocols are signed, they say, we don't have children anywhere. As Yatzenuk said here, this should become, I think, a prosecutor's investigation, why 260 thousand tons have given up their position, but why less than 2 percent of the vehicle's time. 2 percent, I emphasize. When the conditions for entering the STO allow the other bet to regulate the process to 50. I think the Cabinet of Ministers wrote very correctly that the use of those who want to import sugar, please enter, but use it and exclusively for the production of ethanol. As we have today a huge problem with energy resources and we need to process sugar will be if it's going to produce our own sugar, because we need to develop alternative fuels that are going to be imported. Thus, the point that provides for the conversion of sugar into ethanol alone protects our manufacturer. So by predicting all these points before the second reading, the results of the discussion in the first reading can be seen as supporting the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u79	Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, we, our faction, will insist on adopting this law in the first reading, but with reference to the second reading. The Explanatory Note to the draft Ukrainian Law states that the adoption of the bill will contribute to ensuring a stable price situation in the internal sugar market, creating more favourable conditions for the completion of the process of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. It will also contribute to the conservation of jobs in the sugar industry. With the option that this will contribute to Ukraine's entry into the WTO, you can fully agree, but as for the stability of price policy, this is only if the price of the New York Stock Exchange on sugar will not exceed 17 cents per pound, as it was three months ago. If you translate into a normal bracelet, it turns out that the cost per sugar cost produced in Ukraine is going to be more than 3,500 dollars per tonne, which is now much higher than this year. Ukraine will produce 2 million 400,000 tons of sugar this year, and we think, and all sugars think that the price for this sugar will not exceed 3 million 300,000 dollars per tonne this year. The other one. We need to figure out who's going to be the operator in this market for sugar-sparing. And we're going to insist on the second reading of production from this sugar-sparing alternative fuel is bioethanol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u81	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u82	Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, Ukraine I signed up for the section against it because I'm going to urge you not to vote in favour of Bill 2395. And once again, I'm going to refer to the people's deputies of Ukraine, which I'm going to ask you to consider and vote on the adoption of Soviet, so-called Soviet, draft legislation that takes into account the possible negative socio-economic consequences either for production or for the manufacturer or for the labour market or for consumption. It is necessary to support those WTO bills that are either deferred at the time of entry in order to enable Ukraine to adapt to its own new rules and conditions or are justified by certain specific circumstances and conditions. Why? Again, to minimize the possible negative socio-economic consequences. Therefore, Bill 2395 cannot be voted on. But with regard to Bill 2395-1, we see that the order of the tariff quota will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a separate arrangement. Most importantly, the law itself takes effect not today, not immediately. The law itself will take effect on the day of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. And the last. As a result of this bill, we will certainly get an increase in sugar production, which is certainly a low price, and as a result, the protection of the least protected groups of the population, so as not to allow a recurrence of the tragedy in 2005, when neither of this nor the price of sugar has risen sharply. [[Well, it seemed to us then.]] So I urge you to vote in favour of Bill 2395-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u83	Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I don't think the entrance to the S.O.T. should cloud our minds. I'm told that it's now a blur, because what we're doing in this room, I think we're with you in a year, remember this date when we come back and look around, we're going to enter the WTO that we created in Ukraine -- a disaster that, I don't know, will save the Ukrainian people from this scourge. And now, essentially, the question. Out of 192 sugar factories, 63 factories have already been cut. And sugar exports are forbidden. We cut down more factories, we're allowed to import sugar, starting at a quota of 260,000. And the third. It's about ethanol. And what program do we have in Ukraine today is ethanol? Do we have one factory? Sugar mills are cut, ethanols are not built, and sugar is banned. Dear friends, we have no right to adopt these laws. Should we take a deep look at what we're doing? We put the agro-industry sector on the brink of food security. Never in history has Ukraine been a country that had been harvested for food. Today, when we adopt this set of laws, I'll tell you directly, if there's an article in the Constitution about the President's impeachment, that's exactly what a change in the Fatherland is. Betrayal of the Fatherland. I'm sorry. That's exactly when the president, when the government betrays its Ukrainian people. So I'd like you and I to think this through, and in a year, I think we'll remind each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u85	The discussion of this subject was concluded. We're about to proceed to the vote. I would like you to pay attention to the arguments made by those who participated in the discussion. I think it's very important the proposals made by Alexander Baranowski. He's an expert, he knows the essence of the problem, and it's about being able to adjust to the second reading of the terms of the protection of the Ukrainian manufacturer. We have to think about, maybe it's a theory that's being considered today, but it's going to take a few years, and we're going to be fighting to get this quota to import, because both Brazil and Australia and other countries are going to be putting this sugar in, as it is now going to be in those countries most of the time, on alternative energy sources, on biofuels in particular. Once again, however, we need to prepare for such conditions and today protect ourselves under present conditions. He would point out that 63 factories were cut when Ukraine was not a member of the WTO. So there's obviously another reason. The economy has been broken down by other methods and it's too much to talk about now. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich said that the prices in 2005 were rising, and they were growing in artificially created combinations of government leadership at the time, in order to be able to bring in orphans on the basis of the need to save Ukraine's needs when there were more than 400,000 tons of sugar in stock in Ukraine. So these artificial experiments have to be removed from other conditions, from management. Then there will be order and we can protect and fully satisfy the Ukrainian consumer -- about 700,000 tons of sugar for us, we have stock for other needs today, including exports -- but again, this should all be reflected in the law. I think you can prepare for the second reading. There are two options and two suggestions, which the President agrees with in the first reading of the government version, as discussed by Jaroslav Suhi. So it's 2395-1, and the president agrees with that. So I ask you to vote in the first reading of this document. Please. In the first reading, a government project. [[17:31:47]] For 404 The factions, please. 185 - “Regions”, Block Timoshenko – 111 “Our Ukraine” – 74, SPI – 29, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” – 5. We need to put in order of the day and make decisions on the issues that are also offered to you. One of them is the draft Law on amending the budget, which is very urgent, because there is still a need to be able to carry out the budget and implement the tasks that will be defined in it. So I'm putting to the vote the question of putting into the agenda and making decisions about the issues that you have in order and you have them in your hands. Please vote. Please. [[17:32:45.]] For 289. And I have an offer. Since these issues are important and relate to, indeed, fiscal policies in this year, they need to be considered definitively, that is, work before they are completed. I think we're going to be 15, we're not going to take it all anymore, but we're going to have to vote. I'm voting on this proposal. That is, work today before the finalization of these issues. [[17:33:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Please refer to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Azarov Mikola Janović will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u86	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, honourable national deputies, last Wednesday, the Government decided to approve the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. I'm going to take a short look at the main issues. First of all, it's the undersecurity of local budgets by the cost of rising prices of heat-energy. During this year, several decisions were made by the previous Government regarding the raising of gas tariffs. Thus, for the population of May 1, the price of 1,000 cubic feet [1,000 cu m], the cubic meters of gas rose to 231 bracelets, and from July 1st to 414 bracelets. So actually, for the population in six months, the price went up 2.2 times. For the budget area -- 2.8 times, for the utility -- 3.3 times, for the industry, 1.7 times. On July 20, this year, the decision was taken to increase electricity prices by 25% from 1.09.2006. Since the beginning of the year, electricity prices have increased by 50%. At the same time, all levels of expenditure on budgets were not determined. That is, there was an imbalance in the budget. Since November 1, 2006, our government has reduced by 100 dollars per thousand cubic metres the price limit for natural gas used to heat water and prepare food using accounting devices. It is also proposed not to translate into consumers, the population, the increase in gas prices from $95 to $130, but to settle the problem at the expense of government funds. I would like to point out that the solution to such expenses should not be limited to government. Local authorities should mobilise resources to ensure a balance between budget and consumption. The real resource is the sale of non-agricultural land. At the national level, the issue has already been resolved. The government decree of September 26, 2006 provides for the sale of land in auctions of state property, which includes objects subject to privatization. In the 2006 budget, we have a deficit in local budgets to pay wages. What is the reason? First, on March 9, this year, I remind you, before the elections, the previous government was given a government decision No. 268 on wage increases, including local self-government officials, but no full financial provision was made for these expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u87	Mikola Janovich, one second. Deputies, I beg you, release the government's bed. Andrew, please, you're not in the Cabinet of Ministers yet. And please don't stop the government from hearing the important thing, because they have to make decisions to do it. Vladimir Mikhailovich, come to the hall here. Come to the hall. Please, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u88	Secondly, budgeting did not take into account the cost of paying the average monthly salary saved for the period of employment of former members of the local councils. As early as April and May this year, the regions have turned to the lack of resources, both for wages and for energy. In fact, however, the previous government has moved away from performing its functions. Budget assignments for the fourth quarter have been approached, but at the end of the year, there is no funding for the stated targets in many regions. This is especially true of rural and rural budgets. To meet the needs of local budgets to pay wages and increase energy prices, 839.6 million dollars is needed by the end of the year. We realize that the proposed changes do not solve all problems, and we expect some of them to pass by 2007. When the draft budget is finalized, we will make changes, increase resources for local budgets so as not to exacerbate the imbalance. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is a common task for both government and local authorities. Another problem is the payment of full-scale military pensions. This has been the case for several reasons. First of all, the uncontrolled allocation of pension payments to such categories of workers, which are made directly by a strong ministry, not by the Pension Fund. Secondly, short-term planning of the 2006 budget. As a result, in the ten months of the current year, the annual amount of pension payments to the muscle was actually used. Therefore, in order to avoid indemnity on the payment of pensions, military officials are invited to include an additional 678 million dollars in the draft budget. For example, I would say that Ukrainian pensioners today are in unequal retirement conditions. It is not acceptable when the ratio between the minimum pension and the maximum is up to 100 times. We're going to be managing this imbalance. But it's not a matter of one day. There are insufficient financial resources to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children and temporary state assistance to children. We need 288 million dollars. This number was the result of an imperfect forecast of the number of recipients. During the 11 months of the current year, the amount of assistance provided to families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children and temporary state assistance to children is practically equal to the annual amount of allocations. The need for compensation to families with children and the cost of free nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster exceeds the State Budget allocations of 34.5 million dollars. As a result, we have received the problem of providing financial resources to offset interest rates on commercial banks for young families and for building and acquiring housing. In the coal industry, there was a deficit in the cost of securing current production, including the payment of current wages. As of January 1, 2006, the outstanding debt amounted to 110 and a half million dollars and was not included in the budget. In August, we solved the problem in part. In addition, there is an increasing need for a step - by - step increase in wages for miners and an increase in previous government electricity tariffs. In order to balance the economic performance of coal companies and to prevent the emergence of social tensions in the coal sector, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget by 100 million dollars. Overall, the total financial provision for the most urgent expenditure is 2.2 billion dollars. I want to say that these problems were clear at the beginning of the year. It's another matter that has to be solved. What resources can be involved? $700 million in VAT revenues from imported goods, $1 billion in 130 million in government debt savings, $140.9 million in government debt, $140.9 million in national deputies' savings, and $200 million in government spending on the creation and purchase of AN-70, because there is no specific programme to use them. According to the Special Fund, we propose to increase the subsidy from the State budget by 1 billion to local debt repayment budgets, resulting in differences in tariffs on thermal energy, water services, water supply to the population. We also propose to amend a number of text articles of the National Budget Act of Ukraine, including the provision of rules for the payment of invoices for receipts of registered financial liabilities. This will help resolve the issue of receivables. Allow the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate the issue of pensions, the deployment of military personnel, including abroad. Allow local government authorities the right to use the cost of selling land for non-agricultural purposes, which are owned, owned, owned, and provided with benefits and housing subsidies to the population. We also suggest that we cancel the debt for receipt from the state budget, the local budgets of the midterm loan. In particular, I would like to emphasize that the budget deficit remains unchanged. Once again, the issue of covering existing imbalances and the lack of resources in the 2006 budget is extremely relevant. By the end of the year, there was actually 1 month left, after the law was signed by the President of Ukraine in a legislative term. In the end, I will point out that the Committee on Budgets has decided without notice to support the draft law as a whole. People's deputies would like to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u89	Is there a question to Nikola Janovich? There's a question. Please, Landik. Landik.. then, of course, Easy. The letter "L" is the same. But he has an A, and you have a second letter. Please. Please sign up, Landik, Lazko, and someone else would like to ask a question. Please, Landik, then Baby. Ten minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u90	Dear Nikolai Janović, I would like to take a moment to overlook what you have done and still stop in free economic zones. We have raised the question once and for all and this year, and this year we will remove the question of free economic zones as if to invest in investment. Let's take both of these off, and the question of returning to free economic zones, so there won't be too much talk about any benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u91	The distinguished Valentin Ivanovich, this law, which I have now introduced to the Supreme Council, is not regulated. And we will consider another bill that the Government is introducing, and then we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u92	Right. Please, Baby. Then Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u93	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Mikola Janović, you have already said about the country's total debt on the salaries of local energy self-governance officials. For example, the draft changes that you propose to approve to Appendix Seven provide an additional grant of 21 million for Montenegro, although the total debt in the area of about 90 million and in some areas is four months, particularly in the region of Srebrenica. How can we solve this problem? Is he transferring these debts to the next year? That's another question. In addition, this additional grant may be worth setting out its purpose? Isn't it just a donation to where? And the last. You're saying that money is being offered from the sale of land to send for benefits and housing subsidies. But this is contrary to the budget code, which provides that the money received is sent to the local budget. This is, I think, article 71 of the budget code. What about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u94	Thank you for asking. The government has recently completed 100 days. And you're talking about a debt that's been over four months. We will also address this issue, as we have decided on many other issues. I have already said in my statement that these changes to the budget are based on the real capacity of the State. That is how much resources can now be allocated, and that is how much we are devoting to addressing the most significant problems. We will be calculating with each area, as the work on retarnation has not yet been completed, and we will determine as to the first zero the first real debt of all levels of budgets. After that, we will be budgeted within the framework of the amounts allocated in the 2007 budget. But I can say the most basic. That there will be no debt on the payroll of the local budgets after we have decided with you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u95	Kirilchuk, then Sivolski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u96	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Mikolo Janovich, this issue has been extensively discussed by the Committee on Budget Affairs. There were observations and problems. I have personally raised two problems, and I would like to hear the answer to how this bill can solve them. First. Agribusiness employees who have been borrowing credits for the past three months have not received a penny to pay off these loans. Bankers twist their hands. The cost of covering this issue is about 200 million dollars short. Would it not be possible to include such a time frame in this bill to remove the problem? And the second. In the Polish regions of our police zone, that is, the northern zone in August, when the gathering took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u97	He realized that you wanted to ask, he would answer. Please. Talk to me. Well, it's natural, it's natural, it's natural. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u98	Right, I want them to understand the subject of our debate today. We are modifying the budget figures in which the 2006 budget was not sufficiently budgeted. That is, even with the resources of the Ministry of Finance, these expenditures cannot be financed beyond what is budgeted. Now, just one minute to get this right, that's where we're going with the changes right now, they're all going to increase the 2006 budget by socio-significant positions. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u99	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u100	With regard to credit benefits, we have this position in the budget, and we will close it. It's not over for a year. With regard to the subject, we too will close these questions. The decision had been adopted by the Government and would be fully funded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u101	Sivulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u102	Your Honor, Mikolo Yanovich! Tell me, please, that you're increasing funding, that's really a military pension project, all except for the military. What did they do? Why are you reducing their pension funding by 105 million? That's the first question. The second question. You're proposing an article 62 prime, where you write off the local budget debt to the State budget for 992 million total. Tell me, what is the need for these actions, and to whom exactly do you plan to write off your debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u103	First position. Military personnel have done nothing wrong, but their pensions are sufficient for the military. Budget allocations for internal troops are not sufficient. Therefore, it is not that we are insulting someone, so to speak, that we are resolving matters, but that we are in line with the real-necessary budgetary indicators. As far as write-off is concerned. This is a debt that has been in the local budgets, which have not been transferred in a timely manner since 1997 to new tariffs and so on. Now we need to clear up this situation in order to start a new history on 1 January, as they say, without any mutual debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u104	And it's the same as all the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u105	Of course, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u106	Please, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u107	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mikola Janović, I ask you to emphasize such a problem so that all of Ukraine will hear exactly who it refers to. After the election to the local councils, a large portion of the heads of the soldiers, their secretaries, and the district councils of heads received six months ’ wages according to the law. And the new heads of the billiards, the secretaries are now running out of wages, as it's not budgeted. Is that the norm in this law or not? Underline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u108	I stress that this issue is resolved by these changes before the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u109	Thank you. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u110	Mikola Janović, a few questions. I understood the need for the government to support the local self - government system and the issue of wages that the previous government had not settled, and, in particular, in the difficult situation of possible benefits and subsidies in connection with the provision of services, it is absolutely logical and right for the government to do so. The only thing I'm worried about here is that I didn't hear it anyway, so, well, what's the motivation there, for example, that the Ministry of Defense's spending on working there after the A.N.70 was maybe just not ready for this job to make it clear where the money came from and going in that direction? And the second position is very important -- for the right of local self-government to use the costs of selling land. As true as the idea is, we know that these funds have always been used for socio-cultural objects, so they won't have these cats. Perhaps at the same time, we have to speed up the bill on selling land exclusively from auction to increase the amount of money coming to the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u111	I'll start with the second question. Indeed, we only provide for the sale of land at auctions. I think it will be a very serious source of income for local budgets. As far as redistribution is concerned. I've stopped in my speech in detail, but I'll only say the basics for you. That's, uh, that's a plane I already told you. The programme has not been fully implemented 200 million we are not actually funding, there is an opportunity to withdraw. 140 million for the elections, let us say, saved or not spent entirely all the budget assignments that were in the budget. A billion 110 million are foreign debt service savings. Well, I don't want to throw a rock at anyone there, but what I'm saying is, I'm not gonna answer now. Next time I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u112	Please continue your response time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u113	What I read today is that we have someone to thank for saving our public debt. Well, okay, thanks to everyone who's been involved. On the other hand, external and internal borrowings were required in this year's budget. In this year's budget, we had a resource from Krivoroztali, so there was no need to engage in external and domestic loans, as we had been quietly spending until August from a single treasury account of the privatization of Krivoroztali, 13 billion bracelets, and we had not done any good work in carrying out external and domestic borrowings. We have now had to do this work in a timely manner, because the Public Budget Act provides for the financing of the general budget expenditure. So thank you and the question mark at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Makeyenko Volodymyrovich, head of the budget committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u115	Dear Alexander Alexander, Mikola Janovich! Honorable National MPs, members of the government and representatives of the media! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs of 9 November 2006 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2006 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the committee, the bill is extremely relevant, as it allows to solve a number of acute problems, especially the social ones that have been most painful in the implementation of budgets at all levels and are at present the most urgent for our society. In particular, the government has proposed an additional resource under the state budget general fund of two and a half billion dollars for an increase in income by 700 million dollars and a reduction in expenditure and a total of 1.8 billion dollars, including a redistribution between budget programmes. In doing so, the General Fund’s income plan is proposed to increase the value added tax from imported goods to Ukraine in connection with the overturning of this indicator in the current year in connection with the increase in imports. The cost reduction is related to the availability of an expected economy or the execution of separate budget programmes in part by the end of this year and relates, inter alia, to the servicing of government debt – more than one billion dollars, the creation and purchase of the “AN-70” plane – 200 million dollars, the election of national deputies and deputies of local councils – 170 million dollars, the execution by the State of guarantee obligations for the borrowers of State guarantees - 110 million dollars; the pension of the Mino-Branian military personnel - 105 million dollars, to redistribute such a programme into other strong structures; and the implementation of investment projects for the implementation of energy-saving technologies - 100 million dollars. Extinct resources are offered to focus on such measures. First of all, it's about payouts that every mother of a newborn, every low-income family and family that has children with disabilities. In order to ensure timely and full payment of such aid, it is proposed to increase the corresponding subsidy from the State budget by nearly 300 million dollars. It is also envisaged to address the issue of providing for the full cost of free nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster by an increase of nearly 35 million dollars and the pensions of military personnel, primary and military personnel on individual strengths, and the cost of almost 800 million dollars. For no one today is the secret that, as a result of the year’s increase in gas and electricity prices, which were not included in the current year’s budget, every budget institution has been faced with the problem of ensuring timely energy consumption and utilities. An additional grant of about 840 million dollars will allow local budgets to provide budgetary institutions, namely hospitals, schools, kindergartens, funds needed to carry out these calculations and to ensure an adequate state of heating during the winter period. On the basis of an additional grant, it is also planned to ensure full pay by the end of the year to employees of local self - government agencies and local councils who were not selected for a new term. With a view to resolving the problems related to the repayment of local debt, which occurred in recent years with a difference in tariffs on heat, water and water supplies approved for the population, the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to increase the amount of $1 billion in subsidies for this purpose. In doing so, article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006 proposes to take into account the tax liability of the state on 1 July of the current year of the service providers. On the basis of the above, and taking into account the urgency of addressing the social problems noted, the Committee adopted a decision in Ukraine to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u116	Is there a question for Vladimir Volodymyrovich? Is it? Please sign in. I see the miners and there are no more wanters. A. I do, I do, I do, I do. Give me five minutes. Nuts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u117	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, it is clear that changes for those spoken by Mikola Janović must be made. And here's the information of Nikola Janovich was more than convincing. But the question is: To what are 100 million dollars earmarked for the spending of Mingogluprom on state support for coal companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u118	In recent times, there has been social tension in the system of coal - mining enterprises. The Committee, and the members of the Committee on Budgets are over 31 national deputies, who witnessed how the committee had to deal with the internal distribution of money, including wages. This money will be directed towards a gradual increase in wages for miners and the additional cost of mines in connection with the increase in tariffs. Well, they'll also go for electricity and other needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u119	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u120	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich! I think Mikola Janović told us today about these changes to the Budget Act for this year. And I don't think we need to convince the opposition today, especially the two factions, because the estimates of those that the previous two governments have allowed have just been eliminated today by the government of Yanukovic. So I don't think we need to discuss today, we need to stop these discussions, because we want to eliminate these problems that have arisen in the 2006 budget, and the opposition has to stop asking questions because these are your calculations. And I urge everyone to vote 400 with the remaining national deputies, and to calm Ukraine down, and to eliminate the problems that have arisen in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u121	Well, that's not a question. Please, Samuel asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich! Of course, the government of the anti-crisis coalition needs to patch the holes of the previous government today. But I would like to ask you again to tell young Ukraine that the government of the anti-crisis coalition is correcting Pinzenik's crime, which has involved young people in loans and has not compensated for the difference in the bank rate. Because today, many young families have actually suffered by selling their hotels, selling everything they can by going into debt and today they are paying off the crazed, crazed percentages. This is thanks to two previous governments and his finance minister, Victor Pinzenik. I'm asking you to call our government's position on this issue right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u123	Thank you for asking. Indeed, there is a problem, a serious problem. And the anti-crisis government that we created with you is doing everything and doing everything this year and the next to solve these problems. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u124	Sivulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u125	Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, as we know, was first government representatives, and then, from the mouth of many parliamentarians, there was a constant talk that, you see, the 2006 budget is very unbalanced. We called it 9 billion, 7 billion. Today, Mikola Janović and you said from the rostrum that everything is fine with the budget. There will be no deficit surplus. You're increasing a little bit of revenue from real sources. That's the first one. I want you to confirm that. And the second. Please tell me, which government has created this economy of 1 billion 130 million, which is now directed towards social needs, and which minister has ensured the creation of this economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u126	Mikola Ivanovich, reverend Mikola Ivanovich. You and I are responsible politicians. And our job is to keep the Supreme Council from getting nervous in society. Instead, calm down and solve these problems. You and I understand very well what we're talking about. Yes, indeed, the debt was repaid earlier. But you know that the previous minister of finance who took the steps did not have a positive sign. So our task with you is not to switch the ball from one field to another, but to solve the problem calmly, is balanced as is the case with national politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko Oh, no? Oh, there will be another question. Oh, I'm sorry, I was wrong. That's another question. Please, who wants to speak, the faction wants to speak to the MPs. Sign up from factions to the performance, expressing the faction’s position. That's what I understand. Bondarchuk, please. After him, Vaziewsky. Did he pass it on to you? Well, please, Barani's Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u128	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, your esteemed colleagues, you can look at this law differently, you can talk about the rules that are in line with the Rules and so forth, but when we study the bill in the budget committee, we have found no articles there, no bracelets to support any programmes that are not related to pensions, not related to salary, not to the payment of energy resources that were not included in the calculation of the corresponding ones, so, travel and so on. Let's imagine a picture if we don't make this redistribution today, don't make this decision, tomorrow thousands of village council leaders, district councils, district councils that are actually sitting without a salary, because those who haven't been elected had their salary for six months and left power without pay on the spot, we can essentially paralyze the whole system of power, the whole system of councils in Ukraine. And that is what everyone needs to see and feel responsible for. I would like to focus on one more point that this matter must be resolved today. I call for this bill to be voted on as a whole. What am I getting out of? I understand that it is, indeed, that after making the decision today until these funds reach the areas we need to gather the sessions of the district councils. District council sessions will be made up of decisions, and sessions of district councils will be taken later, as well as of the village council. We still have to wait how many days the bill will be signed by the President. I mean, there's no time left. And it's up to us today whether we're going to make a judgmental decision and we're going to fund the salary, we're going to fund the corresponding pensions, we're going to fund the energy transfers that today, the debt that is huge, whether we're going to play politics today, we're going to talk about some mismatch in the Rules, and we're going to drag on this corresponding process. So I would like to ask all the colleagues present in the hall to take our decision carefully today and to vote on this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u129	Jerbrowski is speaking in place of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u130	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! The proposed bill is a powerful testimony to the lack of consistency of the government. At first, his captors claim that the state’s seemingly terrible state of state finances remains to be inherited from the government of Yehanurov. They're talking about the mythical 9, 7, 5 billion dollars, and in the end it's clear that the budget is balanced and you just need some correction that's normal to make enough money in the budget. The only coming is not happening, the source of the coming is privatization. But we know what political power has been responsible for this for the entire fiscal year. Of course, our faction will support all proposals aimed at raising the level of social pay. Therefore, the proposal for an additional subsidy to finance social assistance for families with children, to pay wages to local self-government, to increase the financing of the pensions of some military personnel, to partially offset the interest rate on youth housing loans, and so on, will be supported by the “Our Ukraine” faction. At the same time, the bill contains items that cannot help but raise a number of questions. Thus, it is not clear why the overall increase in the military’s pension costs will reduce the Ministry of Defence’s equivalent expenditure by more than 105 million. We cannot agree with the reduction in the cost of financial support for propaganda abroad, the reduction of funding for the national cultural heritage. Anxiety causes an increase in the income of the tax at added cost. Given the imbalances in VAT compensation that exist today, we are not sure that this increase will not take place at the expense of even greater tax pressure. and delay in paying off VAT. Inadequately justified is the allocation of another hundred million to cover costs to coal - mining enterprises. We don't mind the support, but we're against this money being allocated to restructuring. And what Mr. Zwiagilski said, to actually support those mines, and to borrow interest on loans, not subsidies, because the redistribution from coal mines, then lacks to pay their wages, they increase their subsidies, and then cheap coal goes to the metal combination, and at the expense of that, they get the surplus. There can be no such thing. Thus, the faction “Our Ukraine” proposes to support the project, to amend the 2006 Budget Act first reading by Thursday, to prepare for the second reading, and to adopt the second reading on Friday, the deadline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u131	Please, we're out of time. Is there any more? What about Terjehoin? Please. Sivuliski, please. Oh, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u132	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear voters! I am authorized to announce a statement by the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on the inadmissibility of a government bill amending Ukraine's law on Ukraine's state budget for 2006. The draft law submitted by the government of Yanukovič is a continuation of the course for the consolidation of social programs and the strengthening of the shadow distribution of gross domestic product for the benefit of the oligarchic capital, the beginning of which is set out in the 2007 government budget project. After reporting on the achievement of the GDP growth parameters planned for the first 100 days of its activities in 2006, the government does not want to raise the budget's income. Non-clearing revenues to the State budget increased by only 700 million dollars or half a percent. But only one "VAT from imported goods" position. The main reserve for the planned increase in expenditure was $1 billion and 130 million. conducted in 2005 by the government of Timoshenko in a policy of radical reduction of Ukraine's internal and external debt. And by conducting this policy, I'm Minister of Finance Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich. It is the economy of public debt service that allows for increased grants and subsidies to local budgets, as well as the payment of military pensions provided for by the bill. The bill reveals the real orientation of government policy. By declaring its acceptance of the so-called innovation and investment development model, the government is removing 200 million dollars from financing one of the most innovative design projects and purchasing AN-70. For 100 million dollars, the financing of investment projects, the introduction of energy-saving technologies, is being reduced. In violation of the Code of Budgets, local authorities are proposing to channel funds from the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes held in municipal property at current costs rather than development costs. The bill did not find a place to increase social pensions and benefits, to increase the minimum wage and subsistence minimum, which is essential in terms of rapid progress in inflation and multiple increases in municipal services. Instead, there were 100 million dollars to increase the statutory capital of state-run and export-import banks, whose management has recently been upgraded by the coalition. Already in the current year, the mechanism for manual government budget management is in operation. For no reason is it suggested that almost a billion dollars be written off of local budgets to the State Budget without a specific list of debtors. The Yulia Timoshenko faction claims that the proposed changes are unacceptable to the 2006 budget, which is not aimed at social protection and raising the level of monetary income for the population, but rather to corporate plans for the benefit of the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u133	Have a seat, please. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The conversation around our bill of 255 is extremely symptomatic today. See, the whole society is publicly discussing 100 days of the work of the government of Yanukovic. And the version of the law that we got from the government today is indicative of: (a) the professionalism of the government and (b) the social orientation of our government. There was an objective need to redistribute the budget. We see that as a result of the analysis by the government, in some articles, I will not comment on who is to blame, because this is an unconstructive conversation. But in some articles, there was a real deficit, and these articles were now called: interest on youth housing loans, and payment of social assistance to low - income families, and so on. The question is: Should we support these citizens or should we not? Of course you do. And here was a very constructive position and Mr. Tomenko's when he said that this bill should be supported, and "Our Ukraine" talked about it, and this is an objective approach. Now let's see, how does this propose to the government? He analyzed, on the one hand, articles that either ineffectively or at no cost at all. The second is that we have raised tax discipline, primarily VAT, and we often hear that the government is accused of laundering VAT due to excessive returns. But as a result of this, and the cost that we have saved from the election, we've heard that, and the cost that we see is reserved in our budget. And I suggest we direct them to social pay. Well, can we not support that approach? Dear colleagues, the proposals outlined in draft law 2505 are of primary benefit to the people of Ukraine. I ask all of us, regardless of the faction, to approach professionally, to support the government in order for the Ukrainian people to receive real support from all power: both the Supreme, and the Executive, and the Supreme Council. So I propose to support both in the first reading and in general the bill proposed by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this discussion. So let's sum it up. Of course, financialists, experienced professionals, can be happy about the budget balance when it is adjusted. But a month before the end of the budget year, the balance is not created by amendments. Balance should be created at the beginning of the year when the budget is being considered. So, the statement that the government worked beautifully, the balance of correction only requires a small correction, there, for two billion of all expenses, and so on, well, reported just the first vice-premier. And where is 13 billion since the privatisation of the “Criminals”? They didn't make the budget, but they're already in use. That's obviously a clear question. Claims that 200 million are being withdrawn from the "AN-70" programme. These are the funds that will not be used because the Russian side refused to participate in the project, and they were foreseen for payment by the Russian side. This was not the case before we went to the rostrum. Of course, there may be some incontrovertible, understandable things. Once again, not a month before the end of the budget year is a balance sheet. But pay for social needs, where hospitals, schools are waiting, because of the increase in wages and the increase in electricity tariffs, and so on, is this to be paid, or is it not? Do local residents need to pay off their debts or not? And this is also its own form of grant, subsidy, and so on. Well, how can you not see it and start speculating using different political slogans? I'm asking you to be responsible in this case, and I'm proposing to the government a first-reading vote and in general this bill. Please. [[18:22:48]] For 248 Decision taken. I realize that I can be challenged on this matter and do what is right in accordance with the Rules. But considering that these funds still need to be made available to reach a person, down to a budget provider, you will realize that there is no other way out. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws is under consideration. Please. Reported by the Deputy Finance Minister, Jefimenko Tetjana Ivanovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions of the previous vote, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 3, Socialists – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u136	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. To carry out paragraph 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers, approved by the decree of 31 October 2006 on the approval of conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2007, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u137	Aunt Ivanovna, I'm asking for a break. People are good, I'm talking to MPs again. I'm still addressing the deputies. Don't worry about the Cabinet with your questions, go to the Cabinet of Ministers, and don't stop them from participating in Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u138	I would like to emphasize that this is how President Viktor Andriovich Yushchenk's remarks were made on this issue, which was made to them in a letter from the budget process. The establishment of a balanced budget in 2007 clearly requires improvements in certain tax laws. We are very grateful to all the national deputies and committees for making their proposals to the legislative rules on taxation. At the same time, the number of draft laws amending tax legislation registered with the Committee on Finance and Banking is now more than 130. Compared to the draft Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act, which was adopted in the first reading, a number of rules have been deleted, such as the application of costs to improve core funds separately for each object or group. In other positions, I will stop in more detail later. In addition, the result is that the proposed changes are discussed to clarify the articles on gross income formation and gross expenses to tax the income of financial institutions, excise duty rates, taxation of personal dividends, and so on. In the form of the income portion of the State budget of Ukraine and the local budgets, the share of tax revenues has been gradually increasing in recent years and 72.2 per cent of the revenue generated by the budget has been secured by these revenues in 9 months 2006. Such a dynamic is projected to be maintained in 2007. In Ukraine, there is a fairly stable trend towards growth, both the total amount of tax revenue added to the State budget and the marginal weight of GDP tax. At the same time, both the President of Ukraine and the Government are concerned about the problem of fiscal debt for tax compensation. Thus, it is in order to resolve the problem of improving the administration of full, reasonable, and timely reimbursement of the tax from the budget that the bill is currently proposed. One such rule is to apply the concept of normal price to defined tax credits. For a long time, critical issues such as taxation of scrap metal, imports of cultural values imported by natural persons for their own purposes, and restrictions on the long - term form of VAT calculations on imports of goods were required. For the purpose of a transparent policy on excise taxation and the setting of optimum tax rates, it is proposed to install a 42-euro bioethanel-based gasoline and motor mix. The proposed project implements the principle of equality of operators in the payment of taxes. To this end, it is proposed that several sub-items that are linked to such conditions be suspended for 2007 to create conditions for the cancellation of the debt of the owners of taxes on the condition that the limitation period or the imposition of force majeure conditions is terminated. Ukraine's draft law on amending some of Ukraine's legislation on taxation mainly directly improves income taxation for 2007 along with fiscal orientation provides for measures to stimulate innovation and investment and the stock market through tax measures. In doing so, it is suggested that the fiscal component be implemented exclusively as an extension of the tax base and further streamlining of the benefits. First of all, the Ministry of Finance, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, is proposing to improve the system of accounting for insurance in the form of gross expenditures, taking into account the steady trend in raising the level of capitalisation and financial stability of domestic banks. Secondly, with the aim of preventing capital outflows from Ukraine, using insurance schemes, preventing the insurer from lowering the tax base through pseudo-insuredness, it is proposed to change the tax rate in case of risk insurance by the Ukrainian insurance company to a non-resident whose rating is not in line with financial reliability. Thirdly, the provision of aid provided for by the law in force is being regulated in order to stimulate the development of the Ukrainian cinematographer. In terms of rent policy and natural resources payments. The bill's proposed standards are a step towards the progressive improvement of rents and the transition to a new system of natural resources payments, the main element of which is the dependence on the size of rent payments on the financial and economic performance of economic operators, as well as the establishment of higher wages for the use of more productive natural resources. At the same time, there is a social orientation in the bill of rent. It is proposed that the amount of natural gas produced by enterprises, where part of the State in the statutory fund exceeds 50% not to generate the natural gas used for population needs, will be applied to the seven-fold amount of natural gas rent. In recent years, customs policy improvements have been moving towards world standards, and the last step towards this was Ukraine's accession to the International Convention for the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, the Kyoto Convention. The bill takes further steps in this direction, namely the introduction of a new order for payment of import duties when moving goods through. free economic zones where the special customs zone regime has been introduced. At the same time, taking into account the need to provide the country with energy resources at a sufficient level, the bill proposes to set combined rates of import duties on gas, which take into account the potential fluctuations in world energy prices rather than the specific rates applied in previous years. Another important issue that the draft law addresses is the revitalization of investment activities in Ukraine as a whole and in the priority sectors of the economy, the reduction of the existing gap in the economic development of the regions. A particular issue has arisen after the immediate abolition of tax benefits in priority areas and in depressed areas. This has resulted in the suspension of investment programs, the process of updating core funds and expanding production, and the transition from continuous investment to inertial development. The proposed approaches to taxation of economic operators that implement the investment projects approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including in free economic zones, are a more perfect form of support for investment activities that take into account past mistakes. Dear National Deputies, apart from the financial resources to the income part of the Ukrainian National Budget 2007 project, the proposed project provides for amendments to the legislative acts on administration. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u139	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Teryochin and Suhi. Then, no, if more, then sign up, please. Sign up. Well, they just signed up for 10 minutes. Stoyan. Is it dry? Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u140	Give the word to Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u141	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to calm down and stay calm. Aunt Ivanovna, please tell us that there will be changes in the taxation of aid aimed at producing national films. This is a very painful question for Ukrainian society, for the elite of political art. What is involved in taxing aid to create national films? And the second question. Right now, at the National Bank, we're all here with you. There are tents of contraband investors. Your government bill proposes a new order for the formation of insurance reserves for the following year. Please tell me, this proposed scheme for new bank reserves for next year or not, sometimes it will not have a negative impact on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u143	Thank you. Well, the changes are that the bill provides that operators will continue to be able to provide financial assistance to producers of Ukrainian films, but it will be included in the full amount, in gross costs from the following year only if it is irreversible. So that's avoiding fraud schemes, and if there's honest support, it's going to go through gross costs. When it comes to the formation of bank insurance reserves. I think the bill improves the order of the bank's insurance reserves. If the bank’s insurance reserves were previously formed for all active bank transactions, the following year it is envisaged that banks create an insurance reserve to cover possible costs for all types of loans as well as guarantees. other types of credit transactions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u144	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u145	Vasil Bogchuk Socialist Party, Ternopil. I'd like a word with my colleague, Šibk Vitali Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u146	Please. Bet in the minute you answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u147	I thank Vasil Stepanovich. Fast, socialist faction. Aunt Ivanovno, referring to the subjects of farming, you have used such a term association that “the rating of which does not correspond to reliability”. Please tell me, does this bill foresee how to determine this subject of farming, which is its rating? How can we avoid being subjective? For how, you know, there can always be a number of subjective factors that will influence this outcome. How can we prevent this? You know, you've used such a combination as fraud schemes and so on, which is exactly what the subject is, and you're the one who's leading these scamming schemes and all that sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u148	The zero alarm rate will be applied if the non-resident or broker rating meets the reliability requirements and the reliability criteria set by the state regulator. So there are standard criteria for the reliability of the reinsurance company. At that time, the rate of 12 percent will be applied in other cases within insurance or risk insurance contracts, if this is an operation that does not meet the standard reliability criteria set by the national regulator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u149	Caltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u150	Please pass the word to Deputy Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u151	Voropeyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u152	I have a question for you. Please dispel my doubt. The State Budget Act 2006 amended the law by introducing a moratorium on any new tax benefits or the extension of tax benefits. Tatiana! In addition, there are laws of the tax system that do not reduce tax benefits in the second half of the year. You can't. I think it would be better if one of the first paragraphs of this law were to introduce a rule that would remove the moratorium. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u153	I think so. Indeed, the improvement of the tax system on the principles of justice and equal conditions of all taxpayers requires that the number of benefits be gradually reduced. At the same time, the step you're talking about when the pendulum instantly jumped sharply into the opposite direction really had a negative impact on the investment climate. Therefore, my view is that, since we are building our tax system and the concept of reforming the tax system in accordance with European principles, we are focused on the fact that there are incentives for investment, the promotion of economic development, the benefits, the social benefits of the State to those who need them and who are unable to support themselves and earn enough to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u154	Mosquito, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u155	Thank you. Tatiana Ivanovna, would you please tell me how it's going to turn out now, and will it be able to reflect this law, that's when we adopt it at the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u156	Well, the law we are enacting at the end of the year is related to the fact that we have excluded tax rates from the draft State Budget Act 2007. That is to say, all the absolute rules relating to the formation of financial resources relating to administration have been set forth in this draft Law. These rules will enter into force on 1 January 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u157	Mankovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u158	Please pass the word to Ledide Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u159	Aunt Ivanovna, starting in 1999, was paid for special use. From 99 to 2004 it was permanent. Please tell me what the pay raises in 2007 compared to this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u160	Thank you. Congregation standards for special water use were introduced in 1999. And by 2004 these standards had remained unchanged. Since 2004, an annual index of standards has been introduced on the producer price index of industrial products. Between 1999 and 2006, the index of these industrial producers was almost 240 percent. But the standards were only indexed 1.5 times. Therefore, with a view to bringing these standards into line with the methodology in question, it was suggested that these coefficients should be recalculated and entered that correspond to the increase in the producer price index.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u161	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u162	Dear Tetjana Ivanovna, would you please give an answer to the government's goal of not receiving an advance income tax on investment certificates payments in 2007 and on dividend payments through the holding companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u163	The language is that it is necessary to reduce the tax pressure on dividend income tax. Today, if the enterprise has a profit, it's, this profit is taxed, then if the shareholder gets a profit from that part of the profit that's left in the company's arrangement, then the wage goes back. So our proposal, which is in this law, is its purpose to relieve double tax pressure on dividends, which we believe should be capitalized on savings in the population and used for further investment in our domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u164	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Poshenko Petr Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Mikola Janovich! Dear colleagues! During the entire last week, the committee was actually working with the bill of 2481. Within the working group, several meetings were held, including government representatives, where we tried to find an understanding that would not undermine the integrity of the tax system. We can say that, indeed, to the positiveness of the bill and this vote that is about to take place in this room, I can confirm that, for the first time in all of Ukraine's history, we have achieved that tax standards have been removed from the budget bill, as provided for in the budget code. Unfortunately, we are not solving the second element of a problem that cannot be solved now. The point is that it is not possible to make changes to tax legislation. I would like to point out immediately that this rule cannot be repealed and should not be repealed. Because tax laws do not have to and cannot be made by constantly changing structures that significantly complicate the work of honest taxpayers. So really in a stable economy, in a stable state, the government has to prepare appropriate changes to the law, and even better, the tax code in advance. And after the adoption of this Tax Code, you have to apply a certain, in fact, moratorium on any change in tax legislation, and this Tax Code has to provide for the appropriate liberalisation of tax laws, tax rates to compensate for the government budget's revenue from the expansion of the tax base. I can't help but refer to the President-signed Universal. Mikolo Janovich, I would also like to pay your attention, Mikolo Janovich, one minute. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the universally signed agreement with you, there were structural economic reforms. Structural reforms in the economy also provide for tax reform. Therefore, even after this bill has been passed, I urge all the political forces of Parliament to unite in order to establish the Tax Code within three months, to introduce a moratorium, and in this way to complete the regulation of tax legislation. Turning to the meaningful part of the bill, which was the case with colleague Jefimenko Tetjan Ivanovna in most cases, we can really confirm that the committee’s work has disappeared from the text of the bill sufficiently doubtful in terms of the tax effectiveness of the position on the depreciation news, which in fact destroyed the relevant investments on honest operators who pay taxes honestly. As a result of hearings within our committee, the Committee on Finance and Banking, a decision was made to remove from this bill dangerous to enterprises the introduction of electronic tax notes in view of their need for substantial work. Regrettably, there was no support for the general supply of tax reductions, including income tax, value added tax, and income tax for individuals who were underprivileged. We hope that this will be reflected in the next bill that will be drafted on our committee. At the same time, for the transcript, I would like to say that, when this bill is being finalized in a short time, we understand that it will have to be adopted in the second reading, and in general, it will have to be taken into account that the distribution of all the benefits referred to in the bill is more precisely not distributed, but regulated, including with regard to the implementation of investment projects registered by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is necessary to add the phrase “in line with existing legislation”, because only laws establish tax collection mechanisms. Finally, we think that serious, fundamental changes in tax legislation this bill does not foresee, we can adopt it in the first reading, we can work quickly on the committee, the committee is ready to do so, so we are meeting tomorrow, we are ready to work on Thursday to try to take into account the comments that will be made during the discussion by the end of this week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we listen to Peter Alexiovich and vote? Oh, no? Yes, sign up for the questions. Yes, please, five minutes, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u167	Dear Petr Aleksevic, I fully agree that Ukraine needs an economic push, and this economic push cannot be made by just one Tax Code – it is a set of legislative initiatives, it is a Budget Code, it is a law on local self-government, it is an administrative reform. And that should be the planned programming work. How do you feel about establishing a working group on reform in the Supreme Council? That's a first. And secondly, directly to the bill. What do you think prevents us from voting in general for this law today? What else needs to be discussed on Wednesday, Thursday? What's the question? How long does the meeting need to be extended today in order for us to adopt the law as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u168	Thank you very much. Well, I fully support your position on the need for reform. But, Mr. Dmitri, I'd just like to answer. I fully support the need for reform, but it is not exclusively the Tax Code. In my address to Mikola Janović, I emphasized the need for structural reforms. And these structural reforms also envision housing-communal reform, the completion of pension reform. We are confident that military reform, including structural reform, should be part of the tax reform that corresponds to the committee that I have the honour to lead. That's why we're proposing within the committee to collect all the proposals, to create a working group, and for three months, to issue a harmonized version of the tax code with the government, which today is really going to be expected by the economy. This will be a real contribution to the acceleration, including investment attractiveness, and the stability of the economy. I mean, I can if Adam Ivanovich adds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u169	Add.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u170	One minute, please. As far as I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u171	Oleg Belarus, please. He knows the answer, he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u172	Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u173	Sasha's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u174	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, today I have opened the site of the Supreme Council and it has been found that another alternative bill has been introduced, number 2481-1. Why, in violation of the Supreme Council Rules, in particular in the 95th, 105th article, this bill is not being considered together with the main one. That's the first question. The second question. Why, according to the 88th, 106th article of the Rules, is not given to the National Deputies the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on this subject, the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance and your committee. Why is it that the material in the bill is not given out on time? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u175	High Commissioner Sergio, the committee made a timely decision, which was sent to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council in an appropriate manner. By this decision, the committee proposes to support the bill in its first reading. This bill 2481 was registered, if I'm not mistaken, no. He was registered. This is the 14th, it's substituted. He was registered last week. The committee worked with him for a week. And in fact, the decision of the Committee, which was adopted on change, was taken to the full by the government and introduced as a government bill to replace the previously distributed bill. So this government bill actually takes fully into account the decision that was made on the committee. Why the conclusions of the budget committee have not been drawn in line with the 27th article of the Budget Code, or whether the budget committee has considered the matter, I do not know, nor do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u176	Well, you know, I've been looking at the budget committee, and we've even voted with you, in large numbers, because everything that was in the 2007 State Budget that we voted and adopted on the first reading, we're now looking at it as a separate bill. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u177	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleague, please tell me, I have listened carefully to the questions here. You know, I have the impression that we really have the opposition, not to what they do, but to who does, because the change in tax legislation in the adoption of the budget goes on year after year. Unfortunately, we have not broken this practice for many years. Well, now it's on the merits. I would like to make it clear, however, that we are restoring the free economic zones in full today by budget or by this law. We have repeatedly spoken of what is here in this room, and we do not object to the resumption of work in this regard, but to the establishment of a regulatory mechanism that would be under strict control through Parliament by a separate law. That's the first question. And the second question. It's amortized. We have repeatedly passed and proposed options to improve this position. We are in a critical position to drain the core funds. Each new formulation is worse than the one that was, even the one that worked this year, proposed today. Is that your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u178	In answer to the first part of the question, I began to think that all 15 years, all governments were making changes to the budget. through the budget law. And this is the first case, and I noticed this as a positive thing when we were able to jointly remove tax standards from the budget law. “He who has ears will hear.” With regard to your attitude about providing benefits to free economic zones and priority areas, I also share your position that this is not the best way to solve the problems of investing, increasing employment and accelerating the pace of development. Because we really have to do this the other way. And such benefits, if they were to be paid or restored in full, I would be absolutely against them. In fact, the provisions of the bill are in order to provide benefits, and I have pointed out that this does not apply exclusively to free economic zones, as well as to sector benefits and other positions, all of which are subject to government approval of mandatory re-registration or new registration, taking into account that experience. And to my conviction,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u179	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u180	I am deeply supportive of my colleague Landik, who said that all subjects should have equal conditions, create a competitive environment, and after the adoption of the Tax Code, we should come to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u181	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A little clarification. The decision to remove these bills or this part of the State Budget was made by the preparatory group, which Mikola Janović and I have the honour to lead in the preparation of the State Budget. Yes, there were many suggestions, all of us are wise. Shall we discuss it? Sign up for factions, please. Sergei Sass. Teriochina, right? Please, Sergey Teryohin, please. A better specialist in these laws, like him, is hard to find.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u182	It's just an elves per soul. Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! I remind you that the government was asked to exclude all tax rules from the budget, to include them in a separate law. This was purely about tax changes that increase, I repeat, increase the budget. The government approached Parliament’s task creatively by simply rewriting the budget into a separate paper called “Number 2481”. During this titanic work, the government lost its only resource of 700 million dollars. The money he was going to tear off companies by restricting their right to repair from their funds. As far as I know, it's primarily thanks to the industrial protests of the Party of Regions. By the way, "Mirekspect" is right. After this decision, the pattern between the budget and this document is no longer being followed, there is no resource. Well, maybe other than the virtual revenue from beer taxation. Interestingly, the government is supporting another MP's bill on the reduction of excise duty three times on brandy alcohol. Well, the government doesn't like beer, like cognac, you know? The majority of the Committee on Finance, composed of the Anti-Crist Coalition, rejected the government's draft yesterday with disgust and accepted its "de" tire. But the project did not appear in the Supreme Council. Instead, it appeared in exchange for the government’s 12 - hour project today, after which no decision had been taken by the committee. This, Mr. Sas, is the answer to how these documents are prepared. What is proposed in this bill? Article 1 of the project proposes to guarantee Kabmin’s right to provide assistance from the import point of view to the companies he knows. You might ask, maybe enterprises that are in SESA or TPR there, or tech parks? No, it's not. The project proposes to grant any enterprise in any territory of Ukraine without restrictions. Incarceration benefits. Not listed according to the codes for the list of payment equipment, as it says. The tax collector doesn't know what equipment is, he knows the code. So, by the way, any chicken can be the equipment for producing the egg on this record. A complete confusion with the benefits of free zones, confused and distorted customs and customs treatment. There's a concept of income tax credit -- and it doesn't say what it is. But the main thing is, the honourable people who came up here with those sentences, the standards that weren't in the budget. The first is the release, let's say, of cultural values for the individual's own needs. What physical needs? Today, if imported into a state museum, it is released. Faberge will be imported tomorrow without getting fired. And the last is the payment of dividends without payment of taxes. Last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u183	Let me finish, he rarely speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u184	Last sentence. Last year, the DPA statistics: 500 million dollars were paid as dividends, 92 percent of dividends were received by 50 people, and the other two hundred and two thousand shareholders received 8 percent. So it is now proposed that fifty people, the Party of the Regions, be freed from taxation. So we're going to have a wage tax on the poor, the hired. And all the other incomes are offered to keep going. Dear friends, you know, I've never seen such tax ignorance. And I would very much like not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u185	Basil Tsushko, please. Matvienkovo's giving the word, please. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u186	Matvienkov, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I'll do it again. We don't have the opposition. What they do, how they do it. And the most interesting moment, if Sergey Anatolievich, my adjective, was for peaceful purposes, yes, when he was the Minister of the Economy, yes, in the same areas he worked in, I think we would have lived differently. And that's why we have a seat that defines concepts. When he goes out to the rostrum, he says one thing, and the fact is another. Now, as far as the law is concerned. I want to say one thing. Of course, the law is very difficult, and we're always wondering why we don't have stability, why we don't have investments, why can't we establish the rules of a normal game? From year to year, we change the tax field. As soon as we get the budget, we're starting to lose it. As a budget, we start to jerk off, and every year we pick them up. Again, we write new rules of the game. We agreed here: very freely, carefully approach economic zones so that we don't create a hole. Until we see, so to speak, a clear language that would allow us to be sure that this will not happen. We do not see such language in this law. This is one moment. Second, we are concerned that the Cabinet of Ministers can make or make proposals on certain facilities for relief. Every year we ask for one at a time. Nikolai Janović, well, I'm just begging you, well, let's just leave the amortocracy and not touch them. Let's do it the way they are this year. Because every year what we do, we only do worse, worse and worse. They're out, they're narrowing it down again. We made a proposal, selected from the proposal, discarded the figures and left the breakdown. In doing so, it has made the situation worse for those who are currently working on depreciation. The next point is VAT. Well, how much can we say about the return bill list? We talked about what either let's make the rules of the game normal, or let's get this list out of the way. On what side of the Cabinet of Ministers? Well, isn't there a minister who's not good enough to understand this stuff? We can't return VAT in time, let's at least make it possible to calculate the bill at the entrance so that it's according to the normal rules of the game. Insurance companies. We're here today, believe me, a little while ago this business just started getting back on its feet. He just left. Pensions, life insurance, risk insurance, our companies barely even started to get on their feet. If we're now in the form we're supposed to do right now, we're gonna drop the tax, believe me, they're not gonna get on their feet. They will remain as babies as they were. Same system in banks. We must be very careful and considerate, so we looked very closely at the faction. And I want to say one thing. It's fashionable only on first reading. This is a step forward compared to what is not in the budget. That's good, but only on first reading. Let us take a closer look at each point so that we do not cause trouble next year and look for where, so to speak, our entrepreneurs are not investing in economic development but are moving them out of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u187	Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u188	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine”, Head of the Council of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. I'd like to stop at two fragments, two new coins for the banking system. When the banking system got acquainted with the proposals made in the first draft of the law, it was shocked. On this occasion, a convention was held, and I read the resolutions of the assembly, which is a complete destabilization of the banking system. And over the course of the different discussions, we've moved a little bit further, we've moved forward, and we've cut the problem by half today, but there's still a rule that prohibits banks from making reserves under certain types of operations next year. Today, the reporter for the question of whether the number of tents at the National Bank will decrease, I don't think these innovations will reduce the number. On the question of whether it makes things worse in the banking system, the reporter said that banks would now be able to form under all credit operations -- yes. But the banking agency, it's not just credit transactions. Today, banks will not be able to form reserves under receivables, active recalculation operations, guarantees, letters of credit, and so forth. And on our banking committee, we asked these questions that we didn't get an answer to. So, Mikola Janovich, we hit the head, the banking system, in front of everyone, and in front of you personally. Please delete this rule that destabilizes the banking system. Because the banking system has hundreds of thousands of customers. Let's calm down. The same situation, of course, for insurance companies. Therefore, a big request: Please remove these standards. Next. Sergey Anatoliyovich brought statistics on dividends for 2006. I wanted to bring it back in 2005. DPA's official statistics. Last year we had 581,000 payers, or those who received dividends. The total amount of dividends was 1 billion 700 million. So that's how 1 billion 100 million people in Ukraine got 161. Therefore, the request for second reading is very great. Please carefully approach and see if this is the position that the Ukrainian people need. Therefore, the proposal is to remove the standards that discredit and destabilize Ukraine’s banking system and insurance market before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m1.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, literally a few words. Literally a few words of the conclusion to the question. When, at the dawn of the Orange Age in this sessional room, those who today shout out that we do not need to adopt similar laws with the same zeal have reported that if we do not accept them, life on Mars will stop, unfortunately, it is our very, very bad practice. I'm telling you, the conversation about drafting, adopting, more specifically, the preparation of the Tax Code in these walls, in my memory, has been going on since 1998. Every year we beat ourselves in the chest and say that for the next year we will accept and we will not change anything, but, starting with the year 2000 in every state budget bill exclusively with this year, we hope that it will be no more, because we will adopt the law, this huge mass of changes in legislation was. The other one. The discussion showed, and the reaction in the room shows that the more complex and, excuse me, closer to the body of most half of the people's deputies than this law is, is not and cannot be, because the one who goes out and talks about something beautiful sometimes talks about what he's baking – or bakes taxes on one system or another. One or the other, because banks are hurting, the other hurts cars, the other hurts metallurgy, and so on and so forth. And that, on the one hand, is understandable, because there are labor groups behind it, and people are behind it. I think we did very well to convince the Cabinet of Ministers -- he went to us to remove it from the body of the state budget bill. And so let's now vote it out in the first reading, ask the committees of profile, I see that they have understanding and awareness of it, we ask Sergei Terhochin to join because he, frankly, knows how to do it, because his bills didn't have one golden egg to lay. They've been through a lot. And the colleagues here before know how it was done, so that he would join in this week in adopting this law as a whole. I'm voting on the first reading of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws. Bill number 2481. Please vote. [[19:12:06]] For 242 Thank you. By factions, please, Region Party – 183, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 3, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, Postfactional – 4. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck. I'll make it up to you tomorrow, Sergei.
