ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[16:01:35]] There were 407 national deputies registered in the session hall. Once again, there are 407 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session open. For some members of the Regulatory Committee who have not been familiar with the Rules so far, I remind them that there is no quorum in the existing Constitution and Rules in order to open a meeting. There is only one condition for making decisions. This requires no less than 226 votes of the national deputies. And you can open sessions in any number, and more than that, I'm stressing that there are 407 people's deputies. National Deputies Card. Including, in that row, where the one most resisting is seated, there are also virtually no spaces left. It's the same thing. We're continuing the meeting. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear colleagues, we now have the section “In summary procedure”. We need to make the right decision. Who would like the following questions to be considered by the summary procedure, please vote. [[16:03:36]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party 154, Timoshenko Block 14, "Our Ukraine" 23, Socialist 23, Communist 1, non-fractional 3. Respectful colleagues, the diversified actions that result in some taking cards from some national MPs, can only delay the issuance of duplicate cards. So please don't use these, unworthy people's deputies, methods, because you're not going to cancel the same session. Who is in favour of voting on the summary procedure, please vote. [[16:04:56]] For 211 The decision is not taken. So we're going to be following a full procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 is under consideration to address the error in the name of the population. Registration number 1202. Reports Jaduch’s national deputy. Get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In the area of the Ermolenic region of the village of Sutkovitsa Hmelnicka district is the Pochrovska church-forte, which is a unique defence and cult building for 14-15 centuries. It was first built as a protective tower in the early 13th century. This fortress church is the most completed model of the defence-type church in Ukrainian architecture. This is a monument to the architecture of national importance, security number 769, taken into account in a decree of the Council of Ministers of August 24, 1963, number 970. Today's technical state of the Croat-Church-fort requires immediate restoration and repair work, for which 1 million dollars has been allocated from the State Budget for 2006. Funding for production and other costs is not made through the refusal of the Treasury to finance, since Appendix No 7 to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 makes a technical error, and the Croat Church is written in the village of Adamovka instead of the village of Sutkovci. At the expense of the District Council today, 443,000 coins were placed in the Treasury to acquire them, of course, there is no way, regardless of what is being determined on the winner's tender, produced by the Lviv Institute for “Universal Project Restoration” a cost-effective calculation, started work, because the church is falling apart. The implementation of these funds will ensure that the first set of restoration tasks is carried out, namely, replacing the roof with adequate sewage drainage, planning of the area, because the whole foundation and part of the walls are in the ground, of course, that's the raw material and deformation, and the flooring, and so on. A planned task and restoration task for the development of scientific and design documentation approved by the Head of the State Department for National Cultural Heritage of Kucheruk and agreed by the Chief of Restoration and Reconstruction of the historic construction of the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine, Masterczuk is scheduled to be held on the second turn in 2007 to restore facades, interiors, restore bells, fences, etc. A unique monument to architecture, the spiritual heritage of our people, will be used for the activities of the religious community of the village, the exhibition in the interior of painting of the 16th century, the exposition of the church - fortress as a tourist object. It is now included in the tourist route of Ukraine. Its geographical location contributes to this because it is located 4 kilometers [4 km] from the Mejibiž and Kamyanec Podilski route. I ask you, your honor, to support this bill, which does not require additional sources of budget spending, because the money has gone into the area, and all you have to do is use it. It is not disputed by the Ministry of Finance, the budget committee to adopt the relevant draft law as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! Will there be questions? No questions? Have a seat, please. It's from the profile committee. They say he's sick. Who from the Committee on Budget Affairs can inform what decision of the Committee on Budgets? It is likely that the representatives of the Committee of Budgets have experienced difficult working conditions during these few weeks. I'll inform you of the decision of the Budget Committee. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments, introduced by the People’s Deputy on the basis and generally as a law. No one insists on discussing it? No, it's not. Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. [[to remove an error in the name of the populated item]] Registration number 1202. Please vote. [[16:10:39]] For three hundred Decision taken. And we voted in general as the law. The draft Act amending article 82 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Urban Heads is under consideration. [[on State funding for re-election]] Registration number 1030. Please register with the factions for the performance. We can, we're back. Yes, please, who of the national deputies would like to speak? Thus, respectable colleagues, since we have a full procedure of 20 minutes to discuss the matter, and the fact that the committee spoke from the author of the legislative initiative is in line with the rules. It takes 20 minutes to discuss the matter. Please, National Deputy Bondik, prepare Bogashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the proposed amendments to the law on the election of rural, rural, urban and local deputies, believe me, there is no lobbying of political interests, nor my party colleagues, nor my colleagues in the session hall. Because this is bringing into line with the rules of budgetary legislation and guaranteeing the electoral rights of citizens in this law. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens. In particular, part 20 of article 87 of the Ukrainian Code of Budgets states that the cost of the elections comes from the national budget of Ukraine. On the subject of article 82 of the Ukrainian law, which is proposed in a new edition of the law, it is established that the financing of local elections is, in some cases, carried out on the basis of funds received as a public budget target subsidy to the relevant local budget, this is the holding of successive, out-of-court and early local elections. In other cases, elections are held at the expense of appropriate local budgets, such as the holding of re- and interim elections. Thus, the right of a citizen to exercise authority through local self - government authorities in cases of re-election or interim elections depends on local authorities who may not be interested in holding either re-elections or interim elections. And on account of the lack of funds in the respective local budget, delay the election periods and not create the right conditions for them to be held. I will point out that local authorities have legitimate grounds because part two of article 85 of the Budget Code prohibits planning and execution of expenditure not allocated by the Budget Code to local budgets. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the bill and considers it appropriate and necessary to propose changes for this purpose. Article 69 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that national will is carried out through elections to appropriate authorities or local self - government. In accordance with article 22 of the Constitution, the State guarantees the exercise of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Thus, the State itself has assumed a positive obligation to ensure that citizens can exercise their electoral rights. Both the turn, the turn and the first elections, and the repeat interim elections are the same by nature. And this is a form of the realization of the rights of citizens of their electoral rights. So they can't be different from the amount of government guarantees, not the sources of funding. The proposed normative consolidation of the need for funding from the State budget of all types of local elections does not deny the budget code, and the implementation of the electoral rights of citizens will not depend on the availability of funds in the local budget or, worse still, on the desire of local governments. Moreover, article 82 of the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads provides for internal disagreement in the law itself. Yes, part of the sixth article of the 50th Act states that the pre-election campaign is carried out at the expense of the relevant local budget received as a targeted subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine for the preparation and conduct of local elections, and the costs of the electoral funds of candidates of local organizations, parties, blocks. Use of funds from other sources is prohibited for pre-selective agitation. This is also reflected in the part of the first article of the 52nd Act, which states that the corresponding territorial election commission, at the expense of the relevant local budget, received as a targeted subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine, which is allocated for the preparation and conduct of elections, ensures the production of information posters and other means of exigencies. Thus, contrary to the requirements of article 82 of the Law, the other articles of the Law require the financing of certain pre-election measures, without regard to the types of local elections, to be made only at the expense of the corresponding local budget, received as a targeted subsidy from the State budget. Regrettably, the Committee on State Building and Regional Policy, which is a professional bill, has not, in its conclusion, supported and pointed out why. First, this committee did not fulfil its responsibilities under article 16 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committees Act on the review and generalization of the conclusions of other committees and the preparation of them for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a committee to identify the main committee in the drafting of this bill. For example, the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy supported the bill. It's different. When considering a bill at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on State Building, objections were about financing and did not require guarantees of the electoral rights of citizens. The only argument in the draft bill was that it was not possible to finance the re- and intermediate elections at the expense of the state budget because these costs could not be foreseen in the state budget. But it turned out that the MPs would not have any idea of how financing out of turn and the first election was coming from the state budget of Ukraine. Therefore, the committee proposed the worst management decision: not to support the draft draft in the first reading and to invite the author to draft a bill that would address the issue of financing and consecutive elections by the Central Electoral Commission. I would like to remind you that the Central Election Commission is not a fund-raiser for local elections. I will point out that the formal position of the Ministry of Finance, which, in its conclusion, proposes not to adopt a bill, is that in each case, it will be necessary to adopt the Law on Changes to the State Budget, which also does not meet the requirements of the Budget Code. Explain why. Article 24 of the budget code provides for the establishment of a budget reserve fund that is formed in the event of unforeseen expenditure that is not of a permanent nature and could not be foreseen in the compilation of Ukraine’s budget. The use of funds from the reserve fund is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Proposals for funding from the contingency fund were also made when a bill was discussed at the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy. I will note that funding is possible and through the planning of expenditure on these elections is a separate period of government budget and funding through the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine as is done for other public expenditure. But defining the funding order, well, it's a matter of government. My bill does not change the cost of funding the local elections of the budget and corresponds to the provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the allocation of expenditure between budgets. So once again, I want to remind you that in November, there are many out-of-order and re-elections waiting for us, both Kirovograd and Poltava, as well as some other cities. And a large number according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Smalls, where rural and rural heads are chosen. Kirovograd, Poltava, and if I'm not mistaken, Cherkasy, Chernigu. So, honourable colleagues, I thank you for all the critical proposals that have been made in the drafting of this bill. You can read more carefully my explanatory note, which has been added to the changes. So there's a new edition that doesn't have any effect on government budget expenditure, because under the State Budget Act, the election amount is already approved and in preparation, I already made a withdrawal. Now, look, this sum right here is 158 million 500,000. It goes like a government budget subsidy. This is the sum that doesn't change in any way. That's why I'd like you to meet me in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u5	Will there be questions? No questions? Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Bogshev Natalija Vladislavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the valid Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads provides for two different sources of budgetary funding for local elections, as set out in Article 82 of this Act, in the case of alternating, alternating and early local elections, they shall be held at the expense of Ukraine's state budget in the form of a targeted subsidy to the respective local budget and in the case of re-elections at the expense of the respective local budget without a subsidy. Something simplified can be said about who appoints the election, who pays for it. Such a principle can be considered just. The reappointment of the re-election is carried out by the territorial electoral commission when the pre-elections have failed. Their results were cancelled, or in the case of the election of the head of the territorial community, the person who was not elected has not acquired his or her own, has not entered the mandate, has waived his or her mandate. Forcing the community itself to finance the re-election of the local budget was viewed by the legislator as a kind of sanction for failing to conduct the previous elections. In practice, however, it is generally found that there are no such funds in the respective local budget, and this does not apply to large cities. Regrettably, the budget policy of villages, villages, and cities of district importance does not adequately fill the respective local budgets. Therefore, it is possible that re-elections are necessary, but they are not carried out because of the total lack of funding. The bill, which had just been presented by the author for his purpose, was designed to solve the problem in a fundamental way. He proposes all local elections, including re-runs based solely on the local budgets received as a targeted subsidy from the state budget of Ukraine. However, despite the simplicity of the solution offered, it is unrealistic. It's not just the conclusion of our committee, it's also stated in a letter from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance concerning this bill, it's also in the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, it's just that the author hasn't finished reading it. So that's what's going on. Pursuant to article 108 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, a targeted subsidy is assigned to a specific local budget by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, within the limits of the amount of the subsidy provided for in Ukraine’s law for the year in question. Today, only after the decision has been taken can the Cabinet of Ministers address this issue to finance the successive elections called for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yet the reelections are appointed by the territorial election committee in rural, rural, and urban areas. And imagine that the Cabinet of Ministers is going to be looking at the issue of awarding a subsidy to implement the decision of the Rural Council, the Rural Territorial Commission. In addition, the deadlines for preparing and making such a decision do not allow reelections to take place within the time limit set by law, no more than 60 days from the date of their appointment. Hence, the proposed bill does not solve the problem. On the contrary, by breaking the existing mechanism for funding the re-elections from the local budget, he does not offer anything real in his replacement. That is why the committee proposes not to adopt this bill. The position of the committee, in accordance with article 109, paragraph 3, of the Rules, to revert the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative. However, the committee acknowledges that the problem raised by the author needs a solution. In this regard, the Committee considers that the more realistic way to address this problem is to refuse the subsidy mechanism as a way to finance local elections and to go directly to the financing of all types of local elections from the state budget. The relevant bill is being drafted by members of our committee. Obviously, it will have to be agreed with the Ministry of Finance and the Central Electoral Commission before being brought before the Supreme Council. Therefore, please support the committee’s decision to return the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u7	Thank you. Any questions? None. Please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Mikola Tomenko. Prepare Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u8	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the idea and concept of the bill's author, representative of Bondik's Party of Regions. And I think it's perfectly legitimate to ask a question that relates to the vast majority of the problems that arise from out-of-order and re-elections. Today we have two problems. And these problems are going somewhere, at least, the last two offices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When wise, wise, and sometimes crafty urban heads who had become accomplices, in their previous vocation they could endure the city’s heads and national deputies for four years. They were collecting signatures from the common people who had asked them to run them wisely in two cities, since there was no money in the city’s budget for the election. The situation is different in today’s vocation. Now the Central Election Commission and the Supreme Council are doing better, and we don't have any accomplices, but under their orders, cities are run by secretaries who are once again collecting signatures from the common people about not having to make elections, because there is no money in the budget. Thus, the main idea of selecting rural, rural, urban heads in practice is not being implemented in many cities. For example, I have four city - head elections in Cherkasa’s hometown today in my hometown of Cherkas. Imagine if there could be order in the city when four times they can't pick a city's head? Therefore, I think that the arguments put forward by the committee here by the representative of “Our Ukraine” can be extended to the planned elections. In fact, when scheduled elections are traditional, they should finance their compliance with current legislation. When it comes to extra or re-elections, usually, if, I think, this compatibility will cease to be normal in Ukraine, and just to change the Elections Act, so that we don't have one man floating in the Supreme Council, in 10 areas, in one city, and so on, then the compatibility will decrease accordingly. If this correlation decreases, we're going to have one or two choices, let's say in one place or in one village. In such a case, the principle of subsidisation from the central budget is completely justified. So here's my proposal. In the first reading, this bill is supported. By the second reading, the planning or so - called first elections should be clearly distinguished and the current form of funding left behind. At the same time, the extracurricular choices that arise in connection with the circumstances that I have mentioned are to finance the subsidy. There will be no problem for the government to adopt five or six special financing decisions. So I would like to support the author of the bill, and I will vote in favour of this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u9	Please, Hanna Herman, Party of Regions. Prepare for “Our Ukraine ” by Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! My position is different, not to deny the opposition, but to take into account what the budget is. And the same is true of the local budgets that we are discussing. We should pay great attention to this and count the state’s money and local budgets. And so I'm going to send this bill back to re-read, re-work, and then look again at whose radio is. Here was a proposal made by a colleague of Bondik, even with regard to the contingency fund. Dear colleagues! We have only been alive for six months, and we do not know what will happen by the end of the year, which may be God’s, that the Lord may preserve us, but all things may be, there may be some floods, there may be other natural calamities. We don't have to spend the state fund, the reserve fund, on the election. So let's be careful, calm. Elections aren't the kind of thing that burns. And let's go back to re-reading, and then we'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich of the “Our Ukraine” faction. Get Onitchuk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u12	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I think we're a little confused about terminology behind a lot of out-of-the-box elections. Dear colleagues! In turn, local elections are now financed by the State Budget. True, the subsidy mechanism, which is quite bulky, but the sources of funding are provided. That the truth in the next year’s draft budget is somehow again forgotten by this article of expenditure, and what has been voted today does not provide for a penny in the State Budget, even though it is an obligation laid down by law. However, with regard to the re-elections, I would like to stress that they are repeated, not out-of-order elections, that is, those that are held when the next or the next turn turns out not to be effective -- no one is elected. Here's the problem. They should be legally financed by the local budget, and local budgets do not have funds. Yet, what is involved in the bill? It is proposed that this be reintroduced through a subsidy. But a subsidy is a bulky mechanism that requires budget allocation, a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers on this subsidy for a specific budget that takes several months. And re-elections should be held in less than 60 days. I mean, it's a waste of time, it'll ruin local re-election funding, but it won't give the funding mechanism from the State Budget. Little naively, it was suggested to use the special fund of the Cabinet of Ministers. You know, he has a purpose. The order, yes, is determined by the Kabmin. But the goals set by the law are natural disasters, extraordinary situations. And considering re-elections a natural disaster isn't a bit serious. So I think it should be noted that the author of the bill has raised the problem, but it needs to be solved in a different way. In this regard, I want to say that on October 26th of this year, the Prime Minister's sheep, Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, held a meeting on this subject. And there's a commission where there's an active and professional committee, both the Central Electoral Commission, and the Ministry of Finance to develop appropriate legislation that will allow for the full funding of local elections. Thus, soon such a bill will be passed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u13	Mikola Onichtuk. Get ready for the can. Please, Baby. Let's get out of here. We'd like to see you in the rostrum. Microphone Light on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Adam Ivanovich, don't worry, you'll see more than once. The bill that we're discussing here is really important because, on the one hand, there's a problem, I know this from the example of Chernigov, where it's been a long time since the election was just motivated by the lack of funds in the budget, and other areas and cities of Ukraine. But at the same time, really when you look at the draft, you don't see the mechanism for implementing the standards that are proposed to be implemented. I mean, really, maybe on the one hand, the local budget will no longer have rights, the local budget will hold elections, and the State budget, for example for political reasons, will issue its decree for six months and a year, although the law will provide the deadlines for these re-elections. So the bill really needs serious work to be done, and it needs to be worked out so that our cities do not continue to be managed manually. But if they were to do so at the will of those who wanted to sit on two chairs at the same time, it would now be done by the will of the government, which could be guided by political motives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u15	And thank you for saving the time. Gerasimük He's handing over the Prince. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill that has been tabled is an attempt to remove the gaps that are in the current law regarding the re-election and the interim election of deputies, because it's not just the city heads -- it's not to be forgotten -- it's the deputies of the local councils. As a result, I fully support the arguments cited by the committee and our faction. And I think the author of the bill has to realize that it's not just about not being financially justified, but in terms of professionalism, it's not fully developed. Although the problem that it raises does exist, not only does it exist in the law itself, which does not agree with each other when one article of the law says that money, for example, is a subsidy campaign, but another article of the law does not miss money for such elections. But what I want to talk to you about today is what we started talking about today, and we're really ahead of time in the re-elections in the four cities of the district centers, and I think it's very important to mention right now, and what did the Supreme Council do, in addition to what it did, let's say, in turn, in the elections? Nothing. Can we now control what is happening in these elections? What, our board members, have we set up a commission of inquiry in all cities? No, we just created every city in Chercas. Sadly, though, in connection with the tragic death of the commission’s head, the commission does not actually work. And the members of the committee are sitting in this room instead of being on polling stations and watching what's going on and going to happen. And there's a lot of interesting things to see. Because, as far as I'm concerned, there's really going to be a complete vachanal. On the right hand of Mikola Tomenko, who says that the primary reason for this is that our colleagues with you have given up positions of city heads in favor of parliamentary authority and have left behind secretaries and completely controlled performances. And now, at any cost, they want to preserve this power behind them, and they want the choices that are going to take place to be declared invalid, or they want to be destroyed. It's not done by any method, it's done by native and gastropod piazzars, who go into completely cynical things. The last of them, as you know, in Chercas was accused by one of the candidates of being involved in Mr. Orobac's murder and as if he was using it as his own pyar technology. They're applying. Courts are used in favor of one candidate or another. We're talking so much about auditing in the economy, maybe we should also pay attention to raiding in the electoral process, using the courts. Other technologies, dear friends, have already come to the point that in the hundredth district, the former, the head of the electoral commission, Mr. Kilchenko, who, unfortunately, is still at large, blames the present election organizers, the languages, and, well, they are the same methods that we are. That's how you serve us, and they don't. Is it not a shame that those methods that seemed to have gone forever in the past are once again raised to the flag and used in elections? Because I don't think that this problem can be solved right now, it's just a little bit of a patch that needs to be solved in a complex, while improving legislation on local elections, and on electoral legislation in Ukraine in general. Maybe we should even go back to the question of the Constitution, which sets different deadlines for city heads -- four years and city councils -- five years. I think that when the city heads are elected new ones, there will be councils, there will be 100 questions that we don't even think about right now. You need a complex one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u17	Thank you. But be careful in your expressions, because you could understand that you were opposed to the Supreme Court's 2004 election. Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative's right to draft a bill. A committee proposal. [[16:39:28]] For 109 Not supported. Then comes the second proposal, the drafter of the bill on the adoption of the bill. [[16:39:54]] For 115 That's how. I repeat: there is no re-reading. There's work to do. Read the Rules. In order to be reread, we need a committee decision, where there should be recommendations to be made on the rereading of the first reading. And for the first time again, the author is no longer working, but the profile committee is working. Taken off the record. Dear colleagues, we have, I see I've already matured the opportunity to vote that the following bills should be considered for a reduced procedure. Who's in favour, please vote. [[16:40:53]] For 261 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the procedure for the nomination of the Secretary of the Rural, Rural, Urban Council is under consideration. Registration number 1299. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Please, the author of the initiative, Sergey Yuriovich. Prepare Kuzmenko Sergey from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u18	I'll start with an epigram for Mr. Baranowski. “To visit a woman is not difficult, and to make fun of how boring it must be to make women not love the Rada.” And now for the bill. A little quote. “Stalin’s factory, when it became a ginseng, has concentrated enormous power in its hands. And I am not sure that he will always be able to exercise this authority with sufficient care, consistently.” Letter to Comrade Lenin’s meeting We know who the secretary general has become. I mean, I mean, the secretary figure is pretty powerful. And the bill. The current practice of applying the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine in the context of political reform, the restructuring of local councils according to a party principle demonstrates the imperfection of the provisions of the law on the procedure for nominating the post of secretary of rural, rural and urban council. The right to hang is granted only to a village, village, city head. While the deputies of the appropriate council and factions are removed from this process, they do not recognize the party component of the deputy corps. The proposed changes solve the problem and allow the Council to no less than a third of the members of the board to run for office. No amendments to other laws are necessary to implement the provisions of the bill after its adoption. These changes do not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. And this law has no political color. He'll reflect people's moods. We had different votes in different regions, different situations in our councils. This law is designed to increase self-government, to increase democratic processes at the local level.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. No questions asked, because it's a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council in the first reading. The project is immature, because, well, it was a nonsensence, the councilman cannot be held by the council but only by the village, village, and city heads. This, even in terms of formal logic, has no basis for correcting this flaw in the law. With regard to the shortcomings of the bill that need to be corrected in preparing for the second reading. First of all, the bill does not specify who does, in which order does the candidate stand, whether the head does put out the first one, or whether the members of the board are appointed first. This may lead to contradictions among some. Moreover, there is no such element as the procedure itself, so we think it is necessary to accept, once again, in the first reading, the committee proposes, at the same time there is such an offer, to give the head a suitable, rural, rural, urban, double-price candidate. If this candidature is not supported, then a third of the Council’s composition may propose its candidacy. Since the majority will necessarily be formed during this time, most will make the necessary nominations. That's the first one. And the second. It is imperative that one third of the board be able to make a nomination because it would be a procedural misunderstanding if spoken in Russian. So we propose to do so and to write it down accordingly, in the final edition of the special procedure, as proposed by the Secretary of the Council, if the head is not elected at all. Because the secretary is still needed, along with everything else, he assumes his responsibilities in the absence of him. Once again, the committee is offering to receive it on the first reading, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u21	Thank you. Although it doesn't matter who's first, there may be alternatives and let them vote. Please two for, two for. Who wants to share in the discussion? The button is green and red, write it down, I'll remind you. There's no other way. Nodmarenko, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! All right, let's say again, I remind you again, I don't write down, I write down the "Council" system, so you didn't get it right. Once again, whoever wants to support the bill has to press the green button, and whoever doesn't support the bill has to press the red button. Please record the performance again. Please, Bogasheva, “Our Ukraine”, Klukkowski gives the word. Because one of the factions is going to be either plus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As one of my colleagues in the Boris Bespalley faction says, a short law is always written for power, and it is long for the people. We have long practiced the ideologies of lacquer laws, and such a succinct law is the Law on Local Self-Government, edited in 97. Yet many procedural issues of local self - government are not addressed. It was hoped that the council itself would do so by accepting a council secretary if the head was not elected at all. Because the secretary is still needed, along with everything else, he assumes his responsibilities in the absence of him. Once again, the committee is offering to receive it on the first reading, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u23	Thank you. Although it doesn't matter who's first, there may be alternatives and let them vote. Please two for, two for. Who wants to share in the discussion? The button is green and red, write it down, I'll remind you. There's no other way. Nodmarenko, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! All right, let's say again, I remind you again, I don't write down, I write down the "Council" system, so you didn't get it right. Once again, whoever wants to support the bill has to press the green button, and whoever doesn't support the bill has to press the red button. Please record the performance again. Please, Bogasheva, “Our Ukraine”, Klukkowski gives the word. Because one of the factions is going to be either plus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As one of my colleagues in the Boris Bespalley faction says, a short law is always written for power, and it is long for the people. We have long practiced the ideologies of lacquer laws, and such a succinct law is the Law on Local Self-Government, edited in 97. Yet many procedural issues of local self - government are not addressed. It was hoped that this would be done by the council itself by adopting appropriate regulations, and these regulations in different parts of Ukraine were so different that the situation was simply out of control. What do we have very often in practice? More than once, we've talked about what can be repeated local elections, the city head, the village head is not elected, but the council is functioning. How to choose a secretary if the law gives a monopoly on nominating only to the head and there is no one. If the head chooses a position of confrontation with the council, when he doesn't have the support of the majority and goes into a situation where the secretary isn't at all, because he always offers an unacceptable candidate. So in order not to provoke a city, rural, village head against the council, in order to encourage him to seek compromise, this bill should be adopted in the first reading. He allows a number of situations to be solved that are hopeless today when the law is being drafted. And above all, the situation where the city's head is not elected and the city's head is eager to work, and it also encourages the city's head to be accepted by the council. Because if he offers unacceptable candidates, the board will be able to make an alternative. So I think this bill should be adopted in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u25	Please, Turkov. Tomenko tells me, that's what I understand. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, one introductory remark, I have always said that in the Party of the Regions, discipline is very harsh. I'm taking my words back today. Of the 185 deputies, only two supported the bill of their colleague in the Party of Regions, I see that democracy in factions and parties is very high. So with regard to this bill, I think the idea is absolutely legitimate and correct. Since we have, in fact, continued to discuss the previous law, we say, sadly only that we did not support it in the first reading. So as we continue this discussion, we have in our history with secretaries, we have this kind of comism or corporateism that goes to the city's head and wins the election. He sees that several factions that may create the majority will control his activity, put within a certain frame of reference his activity. So he starts to do the work, and he says that until my best man, brother, sister-in-law or assistant becomes the city council secretary, you do nothing. This confrontation in the city council lasts a month, two, three months, and the city's inhabitants watch over this -- what's the end of this trouble? Yuri Klukowski said there was another option, for example, when he was a co-conspirator. He moved to the Supreme Council and, for example, the secretary was not chosen at all. That's why we support this idea, it solves the conflict situation -- they vote for political parties and their programs, they're elected to the city council. They have the absolute right to influence and control the activities of the city's head, which usually forgets what they promised their electorate, is the normal opposition between the secretary, who is offered by the political forces that are popular in the region and the city's head. All the conflicts here can be solved in a second reading, such as what Adam Ivanovich said either rise together or rise in turn. So I would like to support the first reading and further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u27	Sulkowski, please. The Microphone's from the place because he's tired of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! National Deputy Sulkovsky, “Regions” faction, Equality. You know, our faction is always reasonable, balanced, good-looking and studying, any draft law. And in order to avoid making mistakes, we really need to seriously discuss and make decisions. You know, there were two "against", two "against", and I pressed "against" and listened, and the previous speakers. And here you are with your colleagues sitting next to me, and they really convinced me that this bill should be supported. That is why I call upon all the national deputies and you, Adam Ivanovich, to put it to the vote and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u29	Paul Gnatovich, are all so wise in the Plain? It's a perfect discussion, I'll put it to a vote. The proposal by the Committee on Adoption is based on the first reading of the draft Law amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the procedure for the nomination of the Secretary of the Rural, Rural, Urban Council, registration number 1299. Please vote. [[16:54:18]] For 410 The committee denies it. Unfortunately, the committee denies it. We are considering a draft regulation amending the Rules of the Supreme Council concerning the conduct of plenary meetings and the formation of committees. Registration number 1059. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. As reported by Nepalj Boris Jakovitch, prepare Ephraim. Turn on the microphone, please, Sasa Sergia, and he will make an interesting offer. I'm sorry, Boris Yakovitch, because this is procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u30	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has voted that the bill should be considered for a reduced procedure. In accordance with article 31, a brief presentation of the initiative, a presentation by a representative of the committee, and an address in the discussion are provided accordingly. In accordance with article 32, two minutes are given for a reduced procedure, so I ask that I follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u31	Thank you. You're absolutely right, but come on, since the next two bills are coming from opposition, we're not going to insult them, and as the previous ones, let them be. Please, Boris Jakovic, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u32	Dear colleagues have just imposed a review of the so - called reduced procedure. This procedure allows two factions to go for, two others to go against, and the rest to remain silent. But it happens that all five in favour, four in favour, or against, and to get the word, are recorded without consideration and “pro” and “against” the adult games begin. I am, of course, “yes” but it is clear that “against”. Instead, I propose a simple, logical and just order. Each faction receives a guaranteed right to speak when discussed under the reduced procedure. And the Science-Expert Authority appreciates this proposal so, this proposal is not valid. A short procedure is just to limit the number of performances, including performances by factions. That's it. You've got the honorable MPs, the mouth-screw, and you're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones In general, the discussion of draft laws is largely organized in such a hurry that we have to run to the bomb shelter immediately. That's why we have this quality of laws, from here and a lot of laws to make changes to laws. Another eloquent example. You just listen to what's in the Rules right now. I quote: “the final legal expertise and editorial work is carried out after the adoption of the Supreme Council act as a whole”. End of quote. So where MPs end up, there's a machine that just starts. I welcome you, colleagues, with the fact that we actually have an advisory voice when we adopt laws. Of course, in a very professional apparatus and such strange conclusions as this for my science-expert project, I can't go into more detail, because a reduced procedure is an exception. But after the adoption by Parliament as a whole, no coma in the project can be moved so that the same curly-known situation “sorry, cannot be executed”. That's why I'm proposing to remove this inadequacy and unique nonsense from the bill. How do you get out? There must be a break before the vote in general. And if, when considering a bill or a decision in a second or third reading, some systemic changes were made, it was adopted in a second or third reading, then it was redrafted in a stylistic manner, and then it was voted in general. But after the vote by the MPs in general, to get someone else to go to the document, that's the floor, if you'll excuse me. Well, more than that. Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure requires, you just think about it, and I quote: “Other information is necessary for the consideration of the bill.” What are the others like? Who needs the Apparatus, the Head of the Supreme Council? Well, really, it's all weather. And considering the following 87 articles of the Rules, I quote: “In the adoption of a bill, it may be refused if it is filed in violation of article 86. I mean, there is no accompanying document that I don't know what, you're just denied registration, you have the right to refuse.” That's why I'm proposing, for example, to remove this nonsense, because we have an advisory voice, and when we're introduced, at the legislative initiative. Now, about systemicity. Dear colleagues, as you can see, the bill that I passed on June 13 was completely systematic. But it was not accepted, it was in line with the law, for example, on changes to the status of national deputies in part. But the proposals I'm making, they're as undeniable as two times two is four, so we have to vote for that law. As for the discussion proposals, I ask you very much, you don't have to focus on them either on discussion or on quoting these inadequacies from a scientific and experimental conclusion that really doesn't match the level of our apparatus. Why? But because these suggestions are very easy to refuse, and I am prepared to make discussion suggestions without insisting on a second reading. But also what I've drawn your attention to is so undeniable that it's a test of whether we agree with what we have to do properly, that two times two is four, that the sun is turning from east to west, or to execution, I don't know, any of the cadre's decisions there, we're going to be rolling completely intelligent things. Thank you for your attention. I hope for your support and confidence in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u33	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. As always, you have been quite consistent and logical, but you have allowed for substantial inaccuracies. Article 31, I'm making an amendment, I'm not commenting. Article 31, fifth paragraph, fifth part, which is spoken of when the procedure is shortened: “A statement of reasons for voting — one by one representative from the deputy faction, whose representatives did not participate in the discussion.” That is, if a faction has not taken part in the discussion on a reduced procedure, its representative has the opportunity to base his opinion. For more information, see Please, from the committee, we have the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At the meeting of the Committee on 20 September of this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Rules of the Supreme Council concerning the conduct of plenary meetings and the formation of committees, introduced by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, No. 1059. In his proposals, the author proposes to amend the 22 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which cover the first, second, third, fourth, sixth, chapter of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the basis of the detailed processing of each proposal, the committee concluded that the changes proposed by the authors were not accompanied by an integrated, systematic approach, but rather by a fragmented one. The Committee believes that it is necessary to refrain from making fragmented changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a period of time, and then, when certain shortcomings are identified as a result of its practical application, to prepare complex changes that would eliminate them. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, at number 16/3 of 7.08.2006, critical remarks were also made regarding each proposed amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and which in no way foresee the possibility of adopting them. The Committee took a decision to consider it inappropriate to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Rules of the Supreme Council on the Rules of Conduct for Plenary Meetings and the formation of Committees by the National MP of Bespali and recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should reject it in accordance with article 109, part 1, paragraph 2, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u35	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? We will. So it's green, it's red, it's against green. Please sign up for factions. Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u36	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear colleagues, I would like to remind the Ukrainian people's deputies of the previous call, how long and difficult it was to draft a new regulation, which was approved by a regulation in early 2006. Remember, we were working on huge materials at the time. They took the experience and tried to figure out how we would be able to balance, considerately discuss some of the laws. So, for example, I don't understand, when I got this bill, I was trying to understand the logic and the essence of the proposed changes. And to the honourable authors of this bill, it was, in fact, some scholastic distraction, some nervousness and today his speech felt that he didn't like something in the regulation. Let us allow this regulation to work for at least one year and the Regulatory Committee will work on those necessary changes and additions. I'd like to draw the author's attention to the inadequacy of saying that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is inconvenient, that it can't edit, that it doesn't grace the National Deputy of Ukraine. And then, I don't understand, and why we can't let the hardware staff edit the texts of the act. You listen to how many of those readings and questions we're talking about, how many of these countries have listened to the words we're using here. If it's on paper, it'll be a disgrace to the entire Supreme Council. That's why I think we can and should allow the people of the Apparatus, and that's why we accept these people of the Apparatus, who are trained people who understand the essence of the problem. I believe that this bill, as drafted by the author, cannot be accepted to any extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u37	Anatoly Matvienko, please the faction “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Sergio Sassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u38	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine", Anatoly Matvienko. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to one very disturbing trend, and I want you to think about it. We have more and more in this room the principle: “And Grandma Paraska v.”. And no matter who's making the offer or what. We don't read the contents. If it's not from the coalition, the coalition doesn't support it, if it touches the opposition, it's from the coalition, the worse, the better. Parliament can't work like that. That's how Parliament works to get us out of here and get the voters to do the right thing. I would now like to address the head of the Ethics Committee and the mandate commission. Please tell me that if there is no complexity, we are not considering any position. It turns out that if one of us has a headache, we will not treat it until there is a complex disease of the whole body. It's absurd which of this rostrum sounds like the first time. I ask that if today there is a need to regulate a rule, it should be regulated, regardless of whether we will still touch our Rules or whether we will not touch this Rules. So I propose to vote, because this is the right of every faction, either one word in favour or against. Otherwise, the faction is deprived of the opportunity to make its offer today. As for Adam Ivanovich, your warning that there is an opportunity to make a statement on the grounds of motive is not a basis for a position, it is just a motive. Therefore, we should not be misused when speaking on the grounds of conversation in essence. So I propose to vote on this proposal of the Incorruptible. Moreover, we need to establish the Rules as a law, because it is also a violation of the Constitution, as the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u39	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. But you didn't just argue, but you did something else, mentioning a mandate committee that doesn't exist. Please, Sas Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u40	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Boris Yakovitch, nothing personal. The results of a detailed analysis of the changes made by the Unflammable Collegiate may be as follows: first, some proposals, if adopted, give rise to contradictions between the rules of the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. These are in particular changes to articles 25, 32, 221 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the exclusion from the Rules of the Supreme Council of regulations which provide for a procedure for the consideration of questions concerning the answers to requests by national deputies. These positions were first found in the Supreme Council Rules for the purpose of ensuring the requirements of part nine, article 11 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. The other one. Amendments to article 30 of the Rules of Procedure to exclude the possibility of an adverting and substantiating an individual opinion contradict the position of part two of article 39 of the Supreme Council Committee Act. It is inappropriate to propose a change in part two of article 32 of the Rules concerning the limitation of the length of time for statements in plenary sessions only at a time that is sufficient for statements by MPs, when part two of article 33 for individual speeches by national deputies takes up to 15 minutes. The adoption of such a change would virtually deprive the national deputies of their right to speak with a report and a report. The law is formal, respectable friends. We've recently decided to create non-factional castes. In view of the adoption of these changes, the nonfractional MP will not have the right to speak at all. The decline in some speeches, the number of national MPs speaking from one question to another, will give rise to such a thing that a national MP speaking out of a committee with a co-report will be deprived of the right to speak on his own. As far as it is concerned, it is also inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u41	Yes, thank you. Well, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u42	Thank you. There are still a lot of comments about the bill. The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports the decision of the Committee and the Scientific and Experimental Authority and will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u43	Boris Jakovitch insists on replicating. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer you undeniable things. First, that the law passed as a whole was then not edited after the deputies. Well, who's against it? Secondly, I propose not to be able to refuse to register bills for reasons that are called shyly “others” for any arbitrary reason. Well, which one of you is against that? Finally, I propose that each faction, when discussing any procedure, should have a reasonable right to speak to the electorate, eventually, to see who they chose. This was Peter I, who knew that we should speak in Assembly Halls. And, by the way, it is argued that the mind of each one, and not only of the mind, is visible. And a respected colleague from the respectable faction of the “Regions”, having no objection in fact, began to say something nervous there when on the ground things to react by not addressing all the issues where there is no law that would solve all the questions. But just because we're dealing with a number of issues doesn't mean you have to throw that law on the ground. After all, you can delete the discussion. I would like to stress once again that this will be a test of whether the Supreme Council agrees on two or two or four or not; and if it agrees, who will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u45	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. I think if it hadn't been for your last speech, I'd probably have voted. I am voting on the draft Ordinance amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conduct of plenary meetings and the formation of committees. Registration number 1059. Be careful, though, that the proposal is made by the Committee on Deviation. [[17:13:28]] For 247 Dear colleagues, it is always the first offer of a profile committee. A committee of profile suggested that we turn it down. So don't blame me, please. 247 down. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Transport Act. [[concerning the payment of benefits for the transport of citizens]] Registration number 2028. He'll report from the authors of the legislative initiative, Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u46	The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, the bill that I have the honour to present provides for the introduction of a new mechanism for the implementation of the right of citizens to take a business trip in urban passenger transport. It is proposed that social benefits for public transport provided by the State to vulnerable groups will be realized by transferring budget allocations to social protection agencies for public transport. And those who are entitled to a tax pass but are not defenceless social categories will receive these travel tickets from appropriate ministries and departments. This issue is extremely relevant, since there is currently no effective mechanism to compensate for the cost-free movement of the benefits categories of citizens. There is a methodological uncertainty in the formation of local budgets for passenger transport enterprises. As a result, traditional public transportation in Ukraine has virtually disappeared. At present, there is a steady underfunding from the state and city budgets for passenger benefits. In view of what the city’s passenger transport industry is today, there is no cost. This makes it impossible to further develop the overall use of transport. At present, free use of public transport is carried out on the account of general transport companies that have remained in the property of the territorial communities of the cities of Ukraine. The problem is also that so far there is no mechanism for calculating the number of persons eligible for extended travel. I want to tell you that in the State Budget, the 2007 State Budget Project is set to compensate 90 million dollars, but no one knows what the actual figure is for that compensation. In view of the above, we can observe the situation when carriers set a limit on the transport of payment servicemen for a flight or refuse to carry payment workers at all. In the very body of the document, you can see that there is a mechanism for providing travel documents for persons who are entitled to a business trip in urban passenger transport, and he relies on the Cabinet of Ministers. Those scientific expertise comments that are added to our project relate to the lack of necessary funding. and financial justification, as well as, according to the Scientific Expert, persons who are entitled to the payment journey will have to go through additional institutional procedures in order to be able to use public transport. I did not in vain quote you the norm provided for in our bill. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the procedure. And if the Cabinet of Ministers thinks it's necessary to give these tax travel documents when you receive pensions or once a year, or once a quarter, then it will and will be put in this bill for a second reading, if that's your will. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. If you notice, work on it and accept it in a second reading. This bill will finally allow real money to be brought to transport companies to fix their work, which in turn will provide benefits to citizens in the form of efficient public transport. I want to remind you that in the first reading of the bill we accept conceptually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u47	Thank you. Please be a member of the Transport and Communications Committee, Pachešuk Sergey Nikonović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u48	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Liaison at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Transport Act, No. 2028, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko. The drafter proposes to change the procedure for granting aid to urban passenger transport, which has been given to individual categories of citizens according to legislation. This is to introduce these persons through travel documents obtained by citizens in the social protection bodies of the appropriate executive authorities. The committee agrees that legislation that regulates the provision of passenger fares requires improvement. Passengers are actually transported by means of transport companies at their own expense. Subsidies from the State budget allocated for these purposes are extremely inadequate. Each year they're only 5 to 7 percent of the real need. It should be noted, however, that the adoption of the bill under consideration does not solve the problem of compensation to transport companies for the loss of income from the transport of citizens of the benefits. The proposed order does not take into account the budgetary financing of these transfers, and its implementation is only possible at the cost of the State budget. The author is not given the financial and economic justification that is necessary for the bills that affect the expenditure of the budget. The introduction of special travel documents for the payment of the bills to the author requires the development of a separate system for their production, issuance and accounting, mechanisms for reimbursement to carriers that require significant losses. According to the Mintras, they make up about 300 million dollars a year. These costs are in no way conducive to improving the financial situation of carriers. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the bill was reviewed by the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine along with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. The ministries in question do not share the author's approach to the issue of compensation to businesses for the loss, income, the transfer of benefits, and believe that the bill requires substantial work. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill is to be rejected. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, after considering the bill, also suggests rejecting it. Taking into account what has been said, the committee proposes a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u49	Please log in. Green, red buttons. Yes, please, Sas Sergey in support. Zibenko Peter prepares himself. Yavorowski? Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u50	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, and honourable voters! We know ourselves, and people, first of all, what a colossal problem with this so-called free passage. We know what happened when virtually all cars were converted into taxis, they were touching checkers just to avoid driving pensioners. We understand very well that it's uncomfortable for drivers today, for automobile companies, for private companies and for the state, to transport these benefits, because it's usually not covered from the budget, and everyone understands that it's a loss. To be honest, this program needs a close look. What about the fact that a war invalid lives in a deep, say, furry furrow and has the right to travel free of charge? When's he going to go? It would be best for him, of course, to pay for the passage, to have him drink 300 grams and imagine that he flew around the planet. Because of what is proposed by Julia Timoshenko, this is a transitional version, a transitional version that could be used today, of course, by motorists and people with appropriate benefits. In fact, a person goes to his social security authorities, he gets this document, and with this document he can drive. I am convinced that this is, after all, a reasonable approach and would ask representatives and regions and others to adopt this bill in the first reading. Now put away some political suspicions and all that, it's a smart, normal transitional law that can be. And then you just have to pay people all these benefits in the form of money, and let them use them the way they want them to. I ask you to vote in the first reading for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u51	Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction, the microphone from the scene. Bondarchuku prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u52	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko I would like to continue with the opinion of my previous colleague, a respected one, and I do not wish to deny politically the necessity of adopting this law. The first thing I want to say is, really, the problem is that there is a solution to this problem that really exists in our society. But the problem and the main flaw, obviously, is this bill I have no doubt that the drafters want it as well. But the problem with this bill is that, first of all, there is no specific mechanism for solving this problem. I mean, really, he's not going to give anything for the problem he's declared. Moreover, when we have considered this document on the committee we have even proposed, we may really try to do this as an experiment in Kiev, but then we need to make changes not to the Transport Act, but to the Qiev City Act. But for me, there are questionable inventions from the adoption of this law, but unfortunately, I am absolutely convinced that for questionable purposes, which may be in this draft law, it is necessary to train veterans, pensioners in line to get this document to pass, and this will have to be done, let's say, every month. I'm sorry, there's no merit here, so I'm absolutely convinced that this idea really needs to be solved, but the paradox is that this law, which is declared, kind of to solve this idea, really, the mechanisms for solving this problem, it doesn't suggest. Moreover, it will create a mass of problems for pensioners, veterans, disabled persons as a means of obtaining a suitable travel document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u53	Ivan Bondarczuk, please, microphone from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich. I think it's a good idea, but the mechanism for its implementation isn't very well thought out. Because the Transport Act regulates the legal aspects of the functioning of the transport sector as a whole and of the road transport companies. The drafter intervenes with regard to social protection. Therefore, it would be appropriate to regulate and implement these issues, or to implement laws on the social protection of veterans. In the rest of the argument, I agree with Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u55	Yes, please, one minute to Dryma from the faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u56	My dear colleagues, I would like to point out that in Ukraine now about 30 laws and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers define a list of all benefits. If all these benefits were implemented, the budget would require some 27 billion dollars a year, including the so - called 300 million dollars a year. The point is that it's not a good idea, but the idea of replacing the benefits for money-based social assistance that comes into this room from time to time, it can't be implemented in this context right now, because the changes have to be made not to the Pro-Transport Act, but to the laws that define these and other benefits, and write out the mechanism for receiving or granting all kinds of benefits, for example, how pensioners who have a pension of 2, 3, 4 thousand should drive free of charge in public transport and so on. So I believe that this bill, for today, cannot be voted for with any political motive, for reasons of norm-technics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u57	Question completed. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put in order for proposals to come up with draft regulations. The drafter's first proposal is to accept it as a basis in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:29:27]] For 118 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion by the committee to reject the bill. Please vote. [[17:29:49]] For 234 Decision taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we should now consider the draft Order on the appointment of Selivanov as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But there is still a need to consult factions. So we have to move the question. Who is in favour of moving the matter forward, please vote. [[17:30:28]] For 245 The question has been moved to reconcile fractional positions. Let us go to the chapter to get into the order of the day and to make a decision. I am voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and consideration today of the draft Act amending the Law on Organised Crime. [[about sorting of NBA functions]] Registration No. 2239. Please vote. [[17:31:15]] For 175 The bill is not included in the agenda. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the draft recognition decrees such that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the extension of the term of use of residence cheques for the privatization of the State Housing Fund has become invalid. Registration numbers 2374, 2374-1, 2374-2. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:32:05]] For 406 Thank you, 406, rulings are included in the agenda. I'm voting on the proposal for these draft regulations to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:32:32]] For 291 Decision taken. We can't put them up early until they're in the day-to-day order -- it doesn't make sense. Draft recognition decrees are under consideration that have become obsolete with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the extension of the term of use of residence cheques for the privatization of the State Housing Fund. Registration No. 2374. Please, Kožemykin Andriy Anatoliyovich, prepare for Serbia’s next draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u58	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The need for this project is due to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of December 21, 2000 No. 2160 actually set the deadline for the use of residence cheques to privatize the State Housing Fund on December 31, 2006. Then, according to the logic of the document, it would be impossible for citizens to exercise their right to privatize state housing. However, according to the requirements of article 92, part 1, paragraph 7, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the legal regime of ownership is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. That is, no legislation other than the laws of Ukraine can establish, alter or invalidate citizens' right to privatize housing. It should be noted that the current edition of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund does not provide for any restrictions on the exercise by citizens of their right to privatize their occupied housing from the State Housing Fund in the size and order established by this law. However, in order to prejudice any misunderstanding or misinterpretation of these issues in the practical application of the law by the people's deputies, who form part of the special commission of Cosemyakinim, Kirichenko, Antitypenko, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund No. 2218. Where article 5, paragraph 5, provides that the exercise of the citizen’s right to privatize housing from the State Housing Fund cannot be limited in time. This bill is scheduled for consideration and I will report it separately. In view of the above, the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21 December 2000 must be declared invalid because it is legally invalid. This was also agreed upon by the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. I consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u59	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u60	I think it's important to say a few words about two alternative draft decisions made by fellow MPs. In one of them, it is proposed to continue using checks for a year, in another two years. In the board's opinion, this is not a solution, it's just a continuation of uncertainty and a reason to undermine society. I believe that it is necessary for everyone to understand definitively, not to resolve such painful issues for the people on the basis of questionable normative acts that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, and I hope you will consider your decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u61	Yes, thank you. Please report your bill to National Deputy Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich, 2374-1. Prepare Caltz S.F.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, the issue at hand confirms that three draft decrees and one legislative act have been introduced. But that's a question we're confusing, not us, but we're confusing it in the Supreme Council of the previous vocation. If we take it very well and deep down, my colleague Kožemyakin. And he's absolutely right to regulate the term of residence. All that's needed is laws, not regulations. But the issue had been confused since 1997, followed by a decision of the Supreme Council in 2000, and the last extension was in 2002. What we can do is, if we accept the determination offered by our esteemed colleague, Cosemiakin, although he is absolutely right, I would like to emphasize it again. It turns out that this entire term has been invalid since 1997 for nine years. That's why it allows for a double interpretation of legal terms. This could lead to what we're doing now is privatizing back, canceling what we are. That's the first one. The other one. We understand how our officials work in cities. And so if we cancel the current decision, the privatisation can actually be stopped with housing checks in general. This is an understanding of my colleague Kožemiakin, and I therefore propose that the law introduce a position that privatization is timeless. What a way out of this situation. We're proposing our ruling, where we're recording not only that it's going to continue to run checks for a year, but we're also giving the Cabinet of Ministers a mandate to amend the law for that period and to set a time limit for the privatization of housing. By the way, for the record, we haven't privatized 15.8 yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u63	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u64	By the way, we still don't have 15.8 percent of our housing privatized. So what is the outcome of the committee, the profile committee on this issue. Support our determination and extend the deadline for a year. To give Kabmin a mandate to work out a real mechanism, along with Deputy Kožemakin, and to enact the law of Deputy Kožemakina in the first reading. Because there are also two questions, the law is normal, but there are two issues that need to be settled, and that's what the Science Administration said. This is a timeless and second term, where social justice is not fully ensured. I can decipher this term, but there's just no time. So I don't want to speak, if you don't mind, on the second question. The committee proposes, once again, to enact the law in the first reading, and to remove the social tension and not to privatize it back, to adopt a decision proposing the deputies Serbin, Bertash and Kucherenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u65	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. Please sit down. Bill number 2374-2. Kaltsev Sergey Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! The basic law of our State gives every Ukrainian citizen the right to acquire property. But today's realities are such that, after 31 December of the outgoing year, it will be possible to speak fully of a violation of article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution, because our people, our voters, will not be able to take advantage of you. This right will limit the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to extend the period of use of housing cheques for the privatization of the State housing fund of 21 December 2000 and the Supreme Council Regulation of 25 December 2002 amending the above-mentioned regulation to extend the period of use of housing cheques for the privatization of the State housing fund until 31 December 2006. This deadline is over. In official statistics, about 20 per cent of citizens have not yet exercised their right. When I meet with voters in my district of Zaporozhye, I am approached by a large number of people, belonging to the category of the least socially protected, who are asked at the legislative level to help them solve this problem. I am sure that such questions and requests are addressed to all of you, distinguished colleagues. For various reasons, people have failed or failed to privatize their housing until “C”. And now there are so many lines that social tension increases every day. Therefore, our team of developers of the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Decision of the Supreme Council of 21 December 2000 on the extension of the period of use of housing cheques for the privatization of the State housing fund, composed of Boris Fedorović Petrov, Aleksandr Nikolaevich Pecklusenk and the rapporteur consider it necessary not only to extend the privatization period for a further period of two years until 31 December 2008. We propose to amend the Supreme Council Regulation to extend the use of housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u68	to privatize the State Housing Fund until 31 December 2008. This will create the necessary conditions for the realization of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to purchase property. And I agree with previous colleagues to give Kabmin a more substantive mandate to deal with this issue and then to vote and possibly to give our voters a permanent opportunity to our citizens to exercise their constitutional right and to privatize and continue to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u69	Yes, please, two in favor, two in favor. Green, red buttons. Yes, please, Ivan Bondarczuk. Microphone from the spot. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I don't think we need to open a debate here, I'm just suggesting that we put it to a vote, it's a very clear question. We need to continue this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u72	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. It would have been better if all three authors had come to a common opinion, we might not have even had a break in the vote. Because if three factions vote differently, yes, if we mix the political leaven here, we can deprive people of the right to take advantage of privatization. That's why I think we should vote for all three positives, which gets more by rating, and we'll take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u73	It is, but not really. Miroshenko, please. Against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I urge all of us to take the floor and vote on Bill 2374-2. Why so? The problem exists, the problem is, and it needs to be solved because.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u75	Please turn off the microphone. I'm sorry, two have already spoken in support of the draft regulations. You're against it, you're in for it, so I'm taking you out of my word. Then talk about those, not who you are. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! This is due to the fact that we are considering three bills at once. So let me put it this way. I propose not to support Bills 2374, 2374-1. Why so? Because there is a problem, it is relevant, and we need to make an effective decision because it ends. And we need to determine whether we should continue until the end of 2006, or should we continue for another two years? In our view, there cannot be an endless extension of the deadline for privatization. These checks are issued once and for all, especially in Russia, for example, there is a clear definition, and to a certain number all people should either make decisions and privatize housing, or stay in a communal or state residence. For us, it is a principle that each citizen should be able and able to exercise that right. Unfortunately, given the number of citizens who have not yet exercised this right, we realize that in one year we will not be able to do so. So it's optimal and compromising to extend that term for two years. In this way, all those desiring to exercise this right will be deprived of that right, and this issue will be resolved once and for all in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. "Our Ukraine" didn't take part. Who's your faction manager? I can't see. Yes, please, Oneschuk is a deputy, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the fact is that in its own time the Supreme Council of Ukraine, desiring to do good, did not do so entirely well by adopting a decree and by extending the term, more faithfully, the deadline for the use of check-ins. In fact, the Ukrainian Housing Privatization Act does not contain any restrictions on the exercise by Ukrainian citizens of this right. Thus, in order to remedy this inadequacy, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted on December 21, 2000, should be repealed. Then "Our Ukraine" proposes to support Bill 2174 by voting on it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u79	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Each of those who reported. And each of those who participated in the discussion, whether he signed up "for" or signed up "against" stressed the importance of the problem. I would like to say, and let us express our gratitude to each of the authors of these draft regulations that they have responded to the problem. The difference in these decisions is this: the first decision in general cancels the Supreme Council's ruling, the second draft of the decree proposes to continue it for a year, and the third draft of the ruling proposes to continue it for two years and, in the meantime, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with a finalization of this issue, once and for all. These are, like, draft regulations. In the order of their coming, I will put to the vote, to the vote on the adoption of the rulings in the order of discussion. Registration number 2374, author of Kožemiakin, who proposes that the ruling be annulled at all. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:49:16]] For 175 Orders for 2374-1. A group of authors who propose to continue to privatize housing checks for one year. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:49:45.]] For 172 And draft decree number 2374-2, which proposes to extend this term for two years. Please vote. [[17:50:10]] For 393 Thank you. 393 in favor, decree adopted. But once again, I stress what you're talking about here, everyone who's almost speaking out that it's not a way out of the situation, needs, really, the Cabinet of Ministers to give us the final answer to that question so that we don't take it every year, because if I don't betray my memory. We have been making similar decisions for several years now. Yes, it is necessary to include the draft Law in the order of the day and to consider today. In this connection, I continue to hold meetings for 15 minutes, the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of the State Housing Fund, registration number 2218. [[on the gradual privatization of housing]] I'd like to make sure you're included in the agenda. [[17:51:15.]] For the 180. The offer is not supported. Although we've already settled for a preliminary ruling, let's really ask the author of the bill. Because that's exactly what our profile commission is for privatization, and that's what it is. That we have given a protocol to the Cabinet of Ministers jointly to prepare the necessary bill to be regulated by the Law. It's about the vote on the inclusion in the agenda today's draft decree on the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Group for Promoting the Implementation of the Helsinki Treaties, registration number 2282. [[17:52:15.]] For 345. Decision taken. Please, the author of the proposal is Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. Dear colleagues, do you mind if we proceed with a reduced procedure? I am voting on this issue under a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. [[17:52:46]] For 281 Nina Ivanovna, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u80	A year ago, when I presented an annual report from an authorized human rights officer in this room, I suggested that I mark at the national level the introduction of the Ukrainian Group for the Promotion of the Helsinki Agreements on the 30th anniversary at the national level. Unfortunately, a year later, the state did not respond in any way. And that's why I did the legislative initiative on October 5th, and I put forward a draft decision that all deputies have to make with an explanatory note. For my part, in 1976, when the Ukrainian Group was created to promote the Helsinki Accords, it was the first group in the history of Ukraine to raise the flag of human rights, not underground, to do so openly, and firstly to raise the flag of the struggle for human dignity. Today, I would like all the deputies present in this Parliament to realize that names such as Vasil Stus, Viacheslav Crnovil, Valérie Marchenko, and others who were among the founders, among the organizers and active participants in this right-wing movement, are the dawns of our Ukrainian culture, and their contribution to this process is very important to us all at the national level. Today the President, by the way, signed a decree on this subject. I'm very pleased, Mr. President's team, the new President's team, is reading drafts of documents that are being submitted to the Ukrainian people's deputies. And so I ask, honourable national MPs, this is a unifying decision that I would ask you to support today and to vote unanimously. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u81	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Yes, from the Terran profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Helsinki Group was the first in Ukraine to start an open fight against human rights violations, based on international treaties, such as the Helsinki Accords, and actively promoted the creation of an independent Ukrainian state. And I want to say that the Human Rights Committee, where the representatives of a totally different political power go, I emphasize, a completely different political power, unanimously proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this draft decision. We are deeply convinced that this draft decision will be a testimony to the democracy of the Ukrainian Parliament, a further step towards consolidating democratic values in Ukraine. Please support, our committee to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u83	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yeah, green, red. Yes, Shevchuk, please. Is that a Microphone? Please, the microphone. The God of preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Yulia Timoshenko faction discussed this draft decision today, and we want to express our gratitude to the author for the fact that, in fact, 30 years later, we have to celebrate this event – the creation of a Ukrainian support group for the implementation of the Helsinki Accords, because the Council itself in 1975 in Helsinki contributed to the beginning, the end of the cold war in the world. After that, as you know, an organization for the security of cooperation in Europe was formed, which is now or is not the only powerful international body to help prevent armed conflicts and resolve the issues of existing frozen armed conflicts. This is a tribute to the memory of those heroes of Ukraine who then had the courage to act against the tyranny that existed back then. And so our faction will certainly vote in favour of this draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u85	Yes, please, Bogesheva Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u86	Please pass the word to Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u87	Chubarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u88	Thank you. I would like to remind all of you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, that after the events of 1968, repression began in the former Soviet Union. As early as May 1969, Elijah Gabay, Peter Grignorenko, was arrested. Both were accused of supporting and participating in the Crimean Tatar National Movement, that is, supporting the fight against the Crimean Tatar people for their return. And that's why the dissident movement in the U.S.S.R. is looking for ways to do this, to form it in 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u89	Yes, please take care of yourself. You don't seem to be holding the card. Turn it on. Yes, please turn it on. You'll have another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u90	One more minute, because, really, I said that after the events of 1968, repression began in the former Soviet Union, in May 1969, the arrests of Elijah Gabay and Peter Grigornka took place, and both were accused of supporting the fight against the Crimean Tatar people for their return. And it was in 1969 that this is just the forerunner of Helsinki groups. An initiative group is being set up to support human rights in the USSR. I want to remind you that Henry Altunyan, our former colleague, unfortunately, is now dead. This group had the first founder. This Mustapha Jamilev group, who is sitting with us in the hall. And in this group was Leonid Plush, who is now, unfortunately, outside of Ukraine. And I would like to mention the creation of a support group for the implementation of the Helsinki Accords, Mr. Levek Lukyanenko, who is in the hall today. Unfortunately, there is no Peter. Chernobyl, which is no longer between us, and Mr. Peter, General Peter Grigoreenko, who is not. So I think that these very names, and alive and dead, today need all of us to honor those people who have brought Ukraine to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u91	Thank you. Please take your position from the Cabinet of Ministers. From the government, who is speaking? Please speak. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask you, in considering the Supreme Council's decision, to consider the State Committee's proposal for television and radio broadcasting, namely, to present the third paragraph of the Supreme Council's draft decree in connection with the limitation of the deadlines for the production of film and the cycles of thematic radio broadcasts by 9 November. Also, for the absence of funds specifically allocated for this purpose, the third paragraph of the decree will be made available in the next edition. The country's state-owned television and radio programmes will ensure that the country's 30th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Group facilitates the implementation of the Helsinki Treaties.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u92	The discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on the basis of a draft decree to mark the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Group to promote the implementation of the Helsinki Treaties. Registration number 2282. [[18:01:05]] For 382 I'm talking to the author, probably, as a reference to that third paragraph that was mentioned by the representative of Derjteladio. Microphone, please turn on Carpathian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! There's no objection to such an editorial, and that's what the President's decree is about. I think it's worth supporting, no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u94	Thank you. So, your honorary colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of the ruling as a whole, taking into account the third paragraph in the wording put forward by the representative of Derjteleradio. [[18:02:20]] For 378 I'll take the order. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Decision on 100th anniversary of the birth of a prominent Ukrainian public figure, General Peter Grigorovitch Grigornka. Registration number 2207. [[18:02:57]] For 347 Included in the agenda. Please report to Mustafa Jemilev. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u95	Honorable National MPs, the draft decree that I am proposing to your mind, is called upon to perpetuate in our country the name of a man who was a symbol of freedom and democracy, a leader of the rights movement in the former Soviet Union and one of the most prominent Ukrainians in the world. His life was well - known in the West. However, the official authorities spread only dirty information and slander against his family. During the 15 years of independence, citizens have become accustomed to expressing their thoughts freely without fear of being searched and watched the next day. What is more, the good tone is now marked by bad talk about power, even if there are no special reasons. But in those years, expressing your thoughts and opinions openly, talking about the crime of power was a privilege for very few people. It was only those who were willing to pay for it with their own freedom, or even with their own lives. There is much to talk about Peter Grigornck's contribution to the democratic movement in the former Soviet Union and Ukraine, his high public courage and the remarkable courage to fight against the totalitarian communist regime until then. But perhaps the most important thing about his law enforcement was that he always took a firm stand against any violent and underground methods of fighting the regime. Thanks to him and his associates, the movement against totalitarianism in the USSR. He did not enter into the path of terror and always adhered to exclusively democratic principles. In 1977, after years of slavery, Grigoreenko was granted permission to go to the United States for treatment. But he agreed to move abroad only after the Soviet authorities had assured him that after treatment he would be allowed to return to his homeland. But on February 13, 1978, the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union issued a decree depriving Peter Grigornck of Soviet citizenship. A few days after that incident on the phone with him, for the first time I heard this courageous man wept, almost crying: “They took away my dearest! Please do what you have to do so that I can die in my country!" Grigoreenko wanted to return to this country, not because he had a happy life ahead of him. In this land, filled with prisons, camps, and mental - regulating, he must have been in bondage again. But he was a true patriot and did not see himself outside his homeland. In the United States, Grigoreenko led a foreign branch of the Ukrainian-Helsinian group and fought for Ukraine’s independence until the end of his days. Provided invaluable support. in the Soviet Union. Peter Grigornck’s appearance in the West contributed to a dramatic change in public opinion toward Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Without exaggeration, Grigornka’s work contributed to Ukraine’s less and less public opinion as the province of Russia, and more than a single country entitled to independence. With his numerous publications, press conferences, public talks in various international forums, he certainly contributed greatly to the elimination of the Soviet totalitarian system and the restoration of Ukraine's independence. The greatness of his personality involved both great things and individuals. He wrote to the president of the United States when he was on his deathbed in the face of terrible pain. “Mr President, I am dying and nothing can save me, but I ask you to take the necessary steps to save another person who is threatened with death in one of the Soviet camps.” Sadly, people with such moral qualities have been and are not so many in the world. And whatever was done postmortemly and in the name of an inheritance, there will still be few. Peter Grigoreenko died on February 21, 1987 in New York City and was buried at the New Jersey Ukrainian cemetery. Peter Grigornck's extraordinary contribution to the restoration of the rights of the people under the Stalin regime and, first of all, the Crimean Tatar people. He's done more for this people than anyone in the world. Peter Grigoreenko, along with Taras Shevchenk and Viacheslav Crnowol, is the most famous and respected Ukrainian among the Crimean Tatars. Perhaps it was because of the legacy of Peter Grigorenko during a referendum on Ukraine’s independence in 1991 that the Crimean Tatars, which then accounted for only 6 percent of the population of the peninsula, added advantages to the independence of our country in the Crimea. In 1999, the Crimean Tatars installed Peter Grigornck’s bust on one of Simferopol’s central courts. Local authorities have repeatedly threatened to break this bust. Only by means of an ultimatum that envisioned the release of all the monuments by Bolshevik chief Lenin did Peter Grigorenko succeed in saving this only monument. The destruction of the monument to General Grigorenko. In accordance with the draft decision, this unprofessional bust should be changed to another one manufactured on a high artistic and state level, and Maidan, at which it will be installed, is proposed to be named after General Peter Grigornck. In general, all the measures envisaged by the draft regulation will also not require significant budgetary resources for those to be developed by the governmental organizational committee. I very much hope that the vast majority of you, the honourable people's deputies, will support the decision. Because in the matter of honoring people who have served their people for their freedom and lives, I think we should be the only ones, regardless of our political views. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u96	Yes, dear colleagues, we have four minutes to complete the session. So I'm asking the head of the committee for two minutes, and then there's two minutes left to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u97	Dear Mustafa Djemilov, I am very grateful to you, the Crimean Tatar, for the beautiful word you have spoken about the Ukrainian patriotic general. Mustafa, Mustafa! I am eternally grateful for your word, once again, about our General. I, my esteemed colleagues, will support the hottest committee and ask for a vote. I'll just give you one detail. I remember, in the 89th year, the Allied Parliament, Sakharov stands on the rostrum, saying that we need to withdraw troops from Afghanistan. And I remember about one and a half hundred fat rosy generals whistled, in fact, this academy, and then they said, "Well, how much did we give this scientist?" So it was an amazing general, who at that time, he didn't come up with a national question. He took action against the benefits of the corporate elite. And for that, he was brought into a mental institution, an amazing man, who really did so much to restore the memory of the Crimean Tatars and their return here. I'm sure society should reject all political ambitions, we should have a solemn evening of this remarkable Ukrainian, amazing general, intelligence, which is very and very rare. Thank you, I'm sure, I'll tell her to God, so let the hand dry who doesn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u98	Yes, we have three minutes left. Please, who's up for it? Two minutes. Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u99	Thank you. I won't talk too much. I would really like to encourage everyone, regardless of political preferences and factions, whether they are part of the anti-crisis coalition or not, not every nation has such great sons. And not so many in every nation. A man, a Ukrainian, a general who fought, went through all the war that someone calls the Great Motherland or the Second World, he fought like any soldier. He wanted to change the system. He was in favor of improving the lives of all people. He helped to fight all those who were submissive. I think that if the Ukrainian Parliament does not vote in favour of this decision today, then I just don't know what country we're building. I would ask everyone to support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u100	Yes, Kurilo, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u101	I ask you to support all of this, because General Peter Grigorenco is really the conscience of the nation. There are not many such people in every nation. To compare it, this is a person who can be compared to a Saharan academic in Russia and also with a number, with Mandela in the United States, also with a number of prominent actors in South Africa. So I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-31-m1.u102	Question completed. I'm voting for adoption in general, because there were no comments, a decree to commemorate the century from the birth of the prominent Ukrainian public figure, General Peter Grigorovitch Grigornek. Registration number 2207. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:15:36]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, not this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
