ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats in the hall and prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[16:00:52]] 391 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a statement from two factions, the factions of the “Ukraine” and the Communist Party of Ukraine on the granting of a break. Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to take 30 minutes or are you ready to speak with your position now? Ready. Please, who's going to perform? Please give the word Kushnar's Eugenia Petrovich to the People's Deputy, the “Region of Ukraine” faction, for the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u2	Statement by the Faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions strongly opposes the gross violation of the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the factions “Our Ukraine”, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and BUIT. Ignoring article 47, paragraph 5, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the members of those factions voted in favour of the adjournment of the first session of the fifth call until 7 June. Such a long break in the session has been made for one purpose: to take time to continue the endless, months-long intrigue of the establishment of the so-called orange coalition. At a time when it is not only a day when an hour of gold weighs, when it is necessary to take immediate action to address very painful economic problems, when the State is over the energy gap that can lead to the full collapse and loss of Ukraine's independence, the oranges continue to intrigue and waste of time. They do not provide an opportunity for the constructive work of the new Parliament, whose effective work is thus expected by the people who have been tortured by their experiments. In addition, the actions of the orange forces have always been divisive. On the one hand, the President declares today that it is necessary to proceed immediately with the formation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, since otherwise he stresses that we are committing a crime before the people. On the other hand, the pro-presidential forces here are taking a two-week break, demonstrating that they are not in a hurry, while the people are waiting for the people to wait until we also meet about a notoriously well-known one-colored coalition. The faction of the Party of the Regions is strongly protesting the artificial deliberate delay with the start of the effective work of the new Parliament. We stress once again, in the context of the economic crisis and the threat of collapse for the whole economy, the situation where the danger is not what is on the doorstep but has already entered the homes of our citizens. We call for the consolidation of all healthy forces, civil positions, when the interests of the people must be placed over the parties. We call for constructive ways to work for the benefit of the people, not for separate political forces. We call for the Supreme Council to defend the interests of Ukraine as a whole in order to consolidate the people, not to divide them, so this strife and hostility. We today address all citizens of Ukraine as a political force that is ready for constructive, productive and constructive work. And we are convinced that the people of Ukraine support this position, precisely when respect for the rights and interests of people are being taken above all else.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u3	Thank you, Eugene Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there will be an announcement. Members of the Counting Commission are requested to meet on the third floor to discuss the issues that will take place in the election of the head and deputy heads of the Counting Commission. On the third floor, please. Let's move on to the agenda. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the procedure. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u4	May I have the floor to the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u5	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not the Rules, but more serious matters, that the Supreme Council has taken responsibility from this day forward. Second. In my view, we must understand that we are already in June, and this new composition should, who has come only to know that we should be issuing an order with you in June, almost a technical task of the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of a budget resolution, for the country's budget. Second. Today, the issue of price and tariff settlement needs to be resolved immediately because, without agreement with trade unions, an increase in tariffs is being decided and today, our economic independence with you is being threatened because of the enormous threats to relations with Russia. You understand that very well. Next. President Yushchenko vetoed the Moratorium Act, which we adopted at the previous assembly. It must be overcome immediately - a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. And I think this is a priority that we should take with you. In the end, we need to understand that today the thousands will be out of work for three weeks, and that's the same kind of taxpayers' money that just goes into the pipe. And I would like to draw your attention once again: June m July is a cleansing suffering. Tomorrow we'll talk to you: why did you just raise 12 million? A ton of grain or less? I believe that it is necessary to work and stop the provocations that today lead only to the destruction of the country's economic and political independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u7	The word is given to Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u8	I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u10	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Raisa Vasilovna, I address you as the presiding officer of the evening session, and I address all my fellow national MPs. I am ashamed that we are starting our first working day with a violation of the Constitution: it violates the Constitution of the representative of the Kushnarov faction, violates the Constitution of the Communist faction leader Simonenko, violates the 10th article of the Constitution! I demand that the Constitution in the session room be maintained, and I ask you to stop speaking in the regional language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u12	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" Block. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any particular problem with some of the national MPs speaking Russian. So what if they're not able to learn Ukrainian? It's just a testimonial. [[Applause]] But I think there's a much bigger problem when people come into the session room who haven't been able to look into the Constitution or the Rules, but they talk about it. [[I speak your language.]] I want to remind you that the Supreme Council of the two previous calls has begun its work with long-standing spikeriads, and these spikeriads have led to serious discreditation of the entire body and of the whole idea of representative power. I think today is the first time a smart tradition is produced to negotiate, to accept all the arrangements, and to move on quickly and effectively. But it is also not surprising that some national MPs can never forget the struggle for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u13	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy. Please sit quietly. I see everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u14	There's a faction of communists. Please give the floor to Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u15	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Surprisingly, it is said that a reasonable decision is being made here today. If Klukkowski considers the cost to be a reasonable solution. I'm sorry, if anyone here thinks it's a reasonable decision to spend money and waste time, then the Communist faction thinks otherwise. Today, prices go up for absolutely everything. Today, people are alarmed that the moratorium actually increases the price of bread, gas, electricity. Yesterday, a trade union campaign took place, yesterday was conducted by all-U.S. Communists, people demanding a raise in wages, pensions and social contributions. Today, women do not receive child benefits and, however, Yushchenko, the faction “Our Ukraine”, the orange bloc established here in Parliament, is blocking the work of Parliament. At that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to name the names of your colleagues in my speeches, as they have the right to reprise accordingly. And so we're going to have two hours to exchange lines with you. The word is given to the last of the procedures of the national deputy Condratius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u17	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Condratieva. Please pass the word to Taras Cranovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u18	Please, Taras Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u19	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Taras Cnerville. Dear colleagues! Dear listeners and viewers of this action that is now taking place! We are very sad that the three factions that have not been able to agree to a coalition by now, for six months now, convincing all of Ukraine that they have a day or two before it was created, today they want to hide their fruitless negotiations at a budgetary cost. We suggest that we return to this vote, vote it out, normally, so that the Supreme Council will work, distribute the deputies to the committees. It's not a coalition issue -- it's a question of proportional distribution so that people can work properly and solve the problems that exist in the state. And a very brief comment to those who are hurting for the language. I speak only English, and I am very sorry for it. But I would very much ask that from the first day at this point we do not divide. Let us also think about what will happen to Ukraine as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u20	Dear national MPs, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has the word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, in response to Kenzior's mention of my name, I would like to reiterate our view of what we are facing. We listen to assurances, wonderful explanations, beautiful expressions and good smiles about what a coalition has already been created and the people will be happy. For a year and a half, these fairy tales tell the people of Ukraine instead of a child's fairy tale. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to your distinguished colleagues: the time has come to respond. For a year and a half, oranges are nothing but promises and infertile declarations. So I want to remind you one more time that it doesn't work out that unfortunately you've been demonstrating for 15 years that the circus is gone and the clowns are gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u22	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The word for replication is given to the People’s Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u23	Yuri Klukkowski. First of all, Raisa Vasilovna, I would like to remind you of the rule of the Rules which gives you the right to ask about the removal of the presiding officer from the meeting if he violates the Rules. I would very much like to avoid any further violations of the Rules. Secondly, I want to draw attention once again to those who have lost the election, calm down and respond calmly to the people's decision. So don't worry, gentlemen of the Communists, neither suction nor prices. Let us form an effective government and work together to solve these problems. But I think your fate will be modest enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, there is no violation of the Rules by the chairman of the evening session. Today the names of the people's deputies have been named, and I can hear you, Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich, Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich and Klukkowski. I give the floor to Eugene Kushnarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u25	Honorable national MPs and distinguished voters, an orange for a year and a half, hang labels on their political opponents. You've already outdone the people of Ukraine, you've ruined the economy, and now you want to destroy the Supreme Council. And second, to all who have difficulty understanding the Russian language, we are ready to provide the translators for free.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone of article 2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 4: “A speaker who does not speak the national language may speak another language, and a translation of his speech in the national language, if necessary, is provided by the Supreme Council. ” And let's stop all of this from being inappropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider how the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be discussed. A word from the Preparatory MP is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a project you've been asked about. Would you look at him and have any questions about that? If we do, we'll invite Alexander Mikolaiovich, if we don't, we'll put it to the vote. It doesn't, does it? Thank you. I'm putting the proposed draft order to the vote. Please enable the "Council" system. Please vote. [[16:17:43]] For 400. A total of 400 national deputies voted in favour. Decision taken. The next issue in the daytime is the issue of the state of legislative work. The written report by Vladimir Litvin, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is distributed to you. In accordance with the Rules, the decision is not taken, but the report is made known. Is there no objection? None. Then it's accepted. And now according to the order of the day, it is suggested that you listen to the report of the session. The report is given to the head of the preparatory parliamentary group, Bokomu Ivan Sidorovich. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u27	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests and invited, distinguished representatives of the media! I have an honorary mission on behalf of the preparatory parliamentary group to make proposals for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on the work done. A preparatory parliamentary group, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, was established by the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene a preliminary call, in principle, by one member of the 15 elected national deputies of Ukraine. For the first time, political parties and blocs were delegated to the group, which won the elections under the terms of the proportional electoral system. The party was represented in a group of 12 national MPs, the election block of Yulia Timoshenko – 9, the block “Our Ukraine” – 6, the Socialist Party – two national deputies of Ukraine and only 31 national deputies. The preparatory group began its work on May 4th, and according to the Supreme Council Rules, it will cease its activities with the establishment of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first three meetings of the preparatory group were chaired by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. During the fourth meeting, the group’s leadership was chosen. The group is headed by the Socialist Party of Boko. The deputy head is the representative of the Haru Vasil Georgievovich Party of the Regions. Mr. Timoshenko Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich is the secretary of the Yulia Block. The co-ordinators of the four subgroups were Alexander Valentinovich of BUT, Paklešenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanović and Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovic, both from the “Our Ukraine” bloc. [[Region Party]] Subgroups are formed in this direction. With regard to the holding of a solemn session, the opening, the regulation, the formation of working bodies, the organization of work and the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the listing of subjects of knowledge and principles for the formation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the provision of activities for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its organs and national deputies of Ukraine, the placement of deputies in the meeting room. It should be noted that the meeting of the preparatory group was at first quite difficult, but from the selection of the governing bodies, it became more constructive and harmonious. As a result, in an environment of business and understanding, it was possible to adopt the issue of convening and the order of the day session, to make informed recommendations on all the issues envisaged by the Supreme Council Rules on the holding of the first plenary sessions of the Ukrainian Parliament, its formation of factions and committees. I am pleased to celebrate the highly qualified work of such members of the preparatory group as Adam Martinyuk, Peter Poshenko, Mikola Azarov, Alexander Turchinov, Yuri Klukkowski, Stanislav Nikolayenko, Mikola Oniszuk, Raisa Bogityrov, Eugene Kushnarov, Alexander Pecklusenko, Bogdan Hubski, and finally all the party and block delegates for the preparation of the first session. I can't hide that there were a lot of difficult moments in the work of the preparatory group. In general, however, they have been overcome through consultations and negotiations, compromises, and discussions, thanks to tolerance and mutual respect. In doing so, the preparatory group was based on constitutional and regulatory standards. At times, it would seem that excessive greed helped to find the most appropriate way out of the deaf corners that were not much. I wouldn't be honest if I'd kept quiet some rather uneasy questions that the preparatory parliamentary group seems to have resolved by way of voting, but consensus has not been reached. This applies particularly to the placement of Ukrainian national deputies in the session hall. It turned out to be unsolved because the number of members of large factions is so that any rational placement in a narrow, non-permanent meeting room is impossible. Although it does not seem to be a matter of concern to our voters, this is not a priority for us. The proposals of the Preparatory Group for the creation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were much more complex. Most of the votes, including from the Party of Regions and the “Our Ukraine” Block, are recommended to create 29 committees instead of 24 that were in the previous parliamentary call. This was addressed by representatives of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Socialist and Communist Party, who motivated this and, rather than rational use of budgetary resources, as a questionable measure of appreciation for the division of two committees, such as the Committee on Defence and National Security, the Committee on Health, Motherhood, Childhood, and so forth. The grounds for doubting this division of these and some other committees are, in my opinion, justified, so the recommendations on this point are accepted as a basis only. Finally, this issue is worth considering and will be discussed seriously at the Conciliation Council meeting with the faction leaders. The final decision is to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, experience teaches that the fragmentation of parliamentary committees does not affect, regrettably, legislative activity and largely satisfies unless ambitions of certain political forces and politicians are met with public interests. In fact, the products of the Preparatory Deputy Group in the form of projects, regulations, recommendations, and so forth. You can show your own appreciation for our work. After all, all final decisions are made for you, honorary colleagues, as according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its entirety. At the forthcoming meeting, the Preparatory Group intends to discuss and make recommendations to the Supreme Council's Office on material security and human resources for the parliamentary factions, since their role in the work chosen on a proportional basis by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has increased enormously and their impact on legislative activities has increased. The preparatory group also expresses its appreciation for the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its previous call for friendly and active support and for its contribution to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its organization of work, for its professional advice on the backstretched situation. I want to tell the newly elected people's deputies, our parliament is a highly qualified apparatus that is always ready to assist with expert conclusions and professional advice. And if we can support it organizationally, morally and materially, I think it's only for the benefit of the matter. Similarly, we thank all the invited officials of the executive bodies and journalists, who, let alone fairly, have “encouraged” us, but at the same time have brought to the people news from the Supreme Council, which was born at this time in the Hall of Meetings. Thank you to all who have carefully followed the work of the Preparatory Group. We don't make up our "passes" because the group can only do that after the committees have been created. Therefore, we will be happy to have your support and help, fellow workers. Another point to be made is that the Supreme Council of the Fifth Council of Ukraine is a new quality for the State. Together, we are starting a political reform with the rule to be translated into purgatory, and this places a special responsibility on us. The parties come to power to take this responsibility upon themselves, we cannot, we have a huge sin to fuel in the session room the atmosphere of hatred that was overcrowded by the electoral campaign. This does not mean seemingly similarity, which can only be in totalitarian society and in the cemetery. We need to go to a large school of democracy, or we need to get closer to European standards of parliamentaryism. Both in government work and in society, the preconceived regime of opposition as an enemy needs to be eradicated. The government and the opposition are two wings of one mechanism, where the authorities hold weights in the government and the opposition controls it and raises it. In a state of powerful democracy, there is no strong power without strong opposition. As one great politician observed: “Government and opposition only eat from one bowl with a variety of spoons.” This is also important because the level of democracy of society is clearly ahead of the level of democracy and politics. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of today's vocation is destined, first of all, to end the image of the enemy in the face of opposition and, secondly, to give a powerful start to the interaction of power and opposition with regard to the building of a developed democratic system in Ukraine. We all need to learn tolerance and pluralism, not in words, but in action. Political debates should not turn into fights and fights, but rather prepare good laws for people and the state. Once in the chair of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was a man of eternity, the brilliant Paul Grigorovich Tikina. It was as if he had predicted tectonic changes in the country, giving a brilliant formula for being: “Everything changes, grows, rejoices, weeps, everything in new forms in the world passes.” Political systems are changing, political parties are changing. The one celebrating the victory now is doomed to defeat, and the defeat of others can lead to a great victory. There is no need for triumphs in politics. We have a great day - to - day and holy work ahead of us. The people will not forgive us, nor will they forgive us, nor will they forgive us. The only measure of our activity with you will be the life of a simple person in Ukraine. To love Ukraine means to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u28	Ivan Sidorovich, a minute. How long do you need to finish the report? Please, just a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u29	Everything else, as the famous literary hero said: “Sweet is vanity and all that is vanity.” Let us conclude this report and wish each of you success, good and happiness, to all the voters who have chosen us here, and to express our conviction that we will not fail them, will suffice us to meet their expectations and commands. Let's think about people, think about big, and the highest and the greatest for all of us, Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Are there questions for the head of the Preparatory Group? Please sign in. We take five minutes for questions and answers. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u31	Thank you, I accidentally hit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u32	The word is given to National Deputy Hari Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u33	Please give the floor to Alexander Nikolaevich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u34	Please, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u35	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, you really did tell me about the big job. About the great work of the preparatory group and I think we all thank you for this work. You said very well that you should take care of the people. What motivated your political power in particular, the Socialist Party, the faction that voted together with the “Fatherland” and “Our Ukraine” to move the work of the Supreme Council to the seventh. I have 101 immediate draft laws, 45 of them with the President's proposals, which need to be addressed immediately. So if you could work now, here's the Constitutional Court, here's the changes to the Constitution, here's the housing and utility tariffs and the Labour Code, which is important social laws. Could we be working on these laws right now, and you're either in the evening, or in the woods you have experience, or after work you've created your coalition. What's your point of view that you said it right and you're doing it worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u36	Alexander Mikolaiovich, you are in vain accusing me of some kind of forest experience. I did not walk in the woods or decide anything. This time. And secondly, I'll tell you this, if you think that the Supreme Council is just a session hall job, I think that you're like a person with the exact experience of parliamentary work that I have, you understand perfectly that work is going on outside the session hall, and it will be. And she will be. This is especially the faction work. Right? That's right. I think both your faction and ours and all the other factions are going to use this time just to get us started on a productive work of 7 numbers. And if our party voted for 7 numbers, you're very understanding yourself, we're working in completely new conditions, and the Supreme Council can't work under the Constitution without creating a coalition. And I think we're on the verge that the coalition process is about to begin and the Supreme Council will work as all democratic parliaments do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u37	Thank you. John Sidorovich, the request was more succinct to answer so that more national MPs could ask questions. Please, National Deputy School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear reporter, I'm going to ask you a question, unlike the predecessor who asked the question before, essentially. Now, I'm curious about who was the initiator of committee operations, because, in principle, this happens almost always, almost every one, previous congregations form more committees than before. But anyway, they're going to say what were the motivations, who was the initiator, and what was the position of most people in this structure? Please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u39	I think I made it very clear in the report that two political forces voted in favour of the Committees: the Party of Regions and Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u41	Vladimir Stretovic, “Our Ukraine”, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. In the context of the previous question, please tell me, although you may not be able to answer this question, what was the basis for the preparatory group, extending the number of committees from 24 to 29: professionalism, the need to answer social questions, or someone lacked a portfolio in conversation with each other, someone had to be the head of the committee, regardless of the situation that needs to be created by 5 additional secretariats, 5 cars, 5 rooms and so on, and so on, it's all at the expense of taxpayers. Why did such an idea come about to expand the number of committees? I remind voters that the last two calls we had were 24 committees, and now it's 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u42	Well, they're not even 29 yet, dear colleague. But I think I also have a clear and clear answer to what this is all about. Of course, to satisfy the ambitions of certain politicians. This time. And the second. I have made it clear and clear that the political power that I represent is definitely against this kind of committee refinement. I think even 24 is too much. I'll tell you that I made the same statement to the President of Ukraine today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear national deputies, the time taken to ask questions is exhausted. Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Take your seats. Dear National Deputies! On this issue, the Supreme Council does not make decisions. I'd like to take a report from the head of the Preparatory Group. Is there any objection? It won't. Roger that. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised at this evening’s plenary meeting are exhausted. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Next meeting of the Supreme Council on June 7th at 10 a.m. Thank you.
