ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:38]] A 391 national MP was registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Mikhajlovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we set the schedule for the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 14-17. In view of the need for urgent settlement of a number of mature issues, the Conciliation Council recognized the need to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the Government’s Day as an exception, to consider bills on improving electoral legislation, financing elections on television, radio broadcasting, and Chernobyl issues. These suggestions are made to you, and you are familiar with the relevant documents. I'll take the vote, please. Who is it that is now to withdraw from the Rules and consider the proposed laws before the Government Day? Please vote. [[10:02:17]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Since we have very responsible documents to consider, I would like to pay attention. Now we need to include these issues in the agenda. I'll put each document separately. Yes, may I have your attention, please? I'm asking questions about inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u2	I'll be in charge of the registration, dear colleagues, and I'll ask these questions. May I have your attention, please? We have two draft laws to amend the electoral legislation. The first will be the vote, as previously registered draft, 9185 is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[10:03:41]] For 227 Questions are included in the agenda. May I have your attention, please? I now put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to address urgent issues of improving electoral legislation. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[10:04:19]] For 276 For 278, 276, excuse me, please. Dear colleagues, if we're going to end the electoral issue with the inclusion in the agenda, why don't I put in the budget? No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u3	I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. Registration numbers 9208. And 9208-1. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[10:05:18]] For 354 Decision taken. For what reason? A real microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, I ask you to vote for inclusion in the agenda as well as for budget 9208-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u5	Well, the thing is, we can't, dear colleagues. It's about finance, and the committee hasn't considered it, and we can't talk about it in a voice right now. The committee, I asked her to look into it quickly. Unfortunately, we won't be able to consider it. Yes, dear colleagues, one minute, we have agreed that we will make a decision after the rapporteurs have made information on the bill on electoral legislation. So that we don't stretch them for long. Three minutes for information. You know what the problems are, by voting we'll determine. No warning? Thank you. Yes, Mikola Komar, please, on Bill 9185. Get ready. Adam Ivanovich will speak on the second occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! During the pre-election campaign, it was repeatedly noted that the very fact that the vote had taken place had been called into question. At first, the lack of capacity on the electoral boards, now that the problem has been resolved, has become a painful issue for the voters ’ lists. Complaints come from all over the country, which are largely the same for all regions: incorrect information about the electorate, unfounded inclusion, or exclusion from the list. According to current legislation, an appropriate complaint can be filed with the district election committee no later than 5 days before the election day, to the territorial district election committee, no later than 3 days before the election. The application for clarification of the list of voters shall be submitted to the administrative court no later than 2 days before the date of the vote. The inclusion of a citizen in or off the voter list may take place no later than two days before the election day. If you look at the experience of past elections, you can think of thousands of people who have never realized their constitutional right to choose power. The same is true today: if a citizen for one reason or another fails to get to know the voter list in advance and learns that the voter list is wrong only on the day of the vote, he will not be able to charge these errors and enforce his electoral rights. I propose that you make the following changes: an application for clarification of the list of voters may be submitted to the administrative court no later than three hours before the end of the vote. The Court shall decide administrative matters concerning the two-day period of the voter list after the application has arrived, but not later than the day preceding the day of the vote. And if the late application came on the day of the vote, immediately, but not later than half an hour before the end of the voting period. A complaint regarding the clarification of the voter list may also be lodged with the district and territorial election committees no later than the time of the end of the vote. Such a complaint should be considered by the committee no later than the day leading up to the election day, but if the complaint comes on election day, it is urgent but not later than the time of the end of the vote. Yesterday, following the consideration and approval of the bill at the meeting of the pro-vote committee and the approval of its members of the Central Electoral Commission, MPs made a number of comments that the authors thought could be agreed on: first, to increase the time from half an hour to three hours before the end of the vote, and second, to prevent abuse of the right to mark in the voter's passport, which was added to the voter list. Dear colleagues, please support this bill and give citizens the same opportunity to complain about errors in the voter lists before the day of the vote, including providing additional guarantees for the exercise of electoral law. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The position of the committee on this matter. Vladimir. Did you report from the committee? Victor Slauta, please perform the duties of head of the committee. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, yesterday at the committee meeting, this bill, as well as the second one we will consider, is fully supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u9	No, this is about Bill 9185. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that because of the differences in the bill, we have developed them. May I have your attention, please? I'll bet, I'll put to the vote right now, please, your attention, Your Honor, the approval of the draft law with precision, with a mandatory mark on the passport of what a person has voted on. We agreed, we made the right decision. I'm putting you to the vote, please. Well, this is the decision of the Supreme Council, the Board of Conciliation was that we wouldn't discuss it. On approval, acceptance as a basis and as a whole, as the Law, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the charge of inaccuracies in voters' lists. Registration number 9185, specifying which one should be marked. Please vote. Vote is coming, vote, please. [[10:11:49]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Please sign up for me. One minute, one minute. Well, they're about to overthrow that law. Well, what are you doing? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to do it again. Well, can I ask you to calm down? That we agreed on a consensus board, one minute we're going to discuss that we agreed on the Conciliation Council that there are two bills. What will be done about them is a report and will be put to the vote. I acted in harmony with the offer of a conciliatory council. There is now a need to return to the matter. Let's go back. Yes, please explain the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. Let's talk about it. There's no warning for those who signed up? One moment, please. Yuri Carmazin. Let's have 15 minutes to talk. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare John the Rabbit. Dear national MPs, one minute. Yuri Bogdanovich. Just a minute. Yuri Bogdanovich accuses me of failing to comply with the agreements of the Conciliation Council, having a discussion. But you insist. Let's not discuss it now. Now, one minute. Time to go, Yuri Carmazin, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u10	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Motherland Defenders' Block, Yuri Karmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't understand how some culinary arrangements, even at the Presidium, can cancel the Rules today, repeal the Constitution, invalidate the obligation to consider bills. I would like to take these bills to the attention of those bills that are now being put forward to address the issues that are emerging. In Lugansk, when a candidate from our Olena Breževa bloc was taken to the post of city head, she was reinstated as a candidate by the court today. But when will she run the electoral commission? After that, an appeal was filed. So it is necessary to make changes where it is obvious that the CLTC is allowed to transfer the election to the city’s heads. It's obvious. When it is now proposed, no discussion is given to enacting Law 9185 concerning the accusation of inaccuracies in lists. I want to tell you that these inaccuracies are really countless. Yesterday, while in the White Church, I was shown such inaccuracies and people complain that, but if we do it directly on the day of the vote, let's think about whether another technology will be applied when 5 to 10 people are writing statements, they're making a lot of noise, and they're tearing down the election. Isn't that impossible? It's possible. I'm afraid so. So speaking of what these things should not be done on the day of the vote, or, if you do, absolutely, absolutely cautiously, by determining when these and what exceptional cases might be. Before, on the eve of the vote, please, on the day of the vote, you can't take these decisions anymore, because 5-10 people will come in, write these statements, make a lot of noise, and then they'll throw ballots here and so on. I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell the Regions in particular, I want you to know that there were 371,000 voters in Mariupoli, 351,000 voters in the presidential election. Januković was voted in 371. I mean, more than ever. Do you understand? So, dear friends, I'd like there to be no counterfeiting anywhere right now. You know we're against all kinds of counterfeiting, so let's see what we're writing. This article of the 32nd Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Village Heads, and, similarly, in the article on elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that a complaint to a district or territorial election committee is filed only prior to the start of the elections and may be filed on the electoral day. This is, if we write, then it's normal, then there's not going to be what's planned to go off as one of the elements of the election collapse. That's exactly what I'm asking you to do, show your wisdom, folks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u11	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies, John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. I'll remind you how we passed the People's Deputies Elections Act, and I terrorized the Hall until 10:00 p.m. And I suggested that you vote to allow the court to include voters on the list. Then neither the Party of Regions nor the CPU voted, now people are good, understand how you should always look away, predict when you're making decisions. We are firmly opposed to allowing district commissions or district commissions to be included in the electoral list today because we remember the experience of last year’s elections, where in the Donetsk district the district commissions included 5,000 voters per day in the lists. Infringement of any legislation in breach of any procedure, it was a complete forgery, and it was established, and it is a fact. Therefore, we do not want our legislation to further contribute to the breaking of the law today, just so that the electorate can carry out the real will to do so. So I'm going to all the national MPs who are thinking about elections today, and the election today is going to show the face of our state, whether we're really going through democracy, whether we're going back to the totalitarian regime: not voting for an option that allows district commissions and district committees to include voters in the election list, because that's essentially going to be fake. And where there was a problem with the voter lists, let's face it, it was the organs of local self-government that played the main violin. And again, where these big parties are. Sir, don't disturb, Mr. Taras, have a stream. If you want me to tell you, I'll tell you, it was the local self-government authorities that created the groups and they had to make a list. That you are here today saying that some computers are guilty, that some translations of names are not such and so forth, that it is the government’s fault. Let's face it, where large parties today control power, in particular the “Regions”, they failed to handle local self-government with lists. And you read the law, then you'll know what you're yelling at today. So do not squander an election, do not make a fake situation. We can vote on only one condition to give to the courts, in no way to district and electoral areas. This is the principle position of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy, because we don't want fakes, we want elections to take place according to will and law. You want to create a legal base today for counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u13	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Basil Nadrag, People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u14	Vasil Nadrag, "Litvina People's Block". Respectable colleagues. What is it? The point is that today, when we discuss possible or impossible falsifications, we will, in fact, deprive people of the opportunity to vote by our legislation. So the question is, what's bad is that if someone is surprised, because the lists are not just voters, but they're from local government, they have to be run by a county commission, but not by voters themselves? This raises the question of why a person who is registered and resident is deprived of the right to vote? You can't let that happen. We must give a person the right to reside where he has been prescribed, stress in no way, but only where he has been prescribed to vote. To that end, there must be a mechanism that, if someone, by deliberately making -- not intentionally, in this case, is not really important, but not human, and we know a bunch of examples where tens, hundreds and thousands of people are not listed, that these people should have the right to vote. And so when we give the right to court, I think it's absolutely true. If we're talking about district commissions, let's put in a rule for them to make a note in their passport that this person has already voted today. And this will also confirm that there will be no temptation to go to different district commissions. Why do we always hear different views from the same political forces in this room, depending on whether they are in power or opposition? My previous speaker here has now described how he proposed and now he refuses. That is why he proposed only because he was in opposition and today he is “the party of power”. But let's be consistent. We are not talking about who is in opposition and power, we are talking about 47 million people, all who have the right to vote, to vote and to be elected on 26 March. Therefore, this bill, the People's bloc of Lithuania, has been supported and supported by our deputies. Because if we talk about people having the right to choose power, we have no right to take it away from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u15	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, to prepare Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! I would like to say a few words about the problem of re-establishing the composition of the electoral boards. In the previous elections of the President of Ukraine, there was a problem with the use of administrative resources in the establishment of such commissions. For the purpose of removing this infamous resource, it was provided for by the law to form the commission’s composition solely for the submission of political forces. But each stick always has two ends. And instead of the five, seven, or ten political powers that have weight in our society and that have developed political structures, we have 43 political parties and blocks registered in the Election Centers, including the name blocks of ourselves. What did this lead to? This led to the fact that these subset ducks -- 43 minus 10, I think, 33, instead of doing the tasks of their new owners, i.e. orange or blue and white, raspberry or other different coloring forces -- now God knows who these district election committees are. And these people didn't even know that they were filed with these committees, and now they're mass-writing applications and they're coming out of these committees. That's what this disgraceful bourgeois democracy is all about, so-called multipartyism. And so far, such proposals are being made so that the election will not be torn down, so that voting and counting can take place, the election boards will have to be filled in. And to do that, think about it, empowering you to run for election boards, city heads, local heads, even individual members of election committees -- that is the return to the administrative resources that we've talked about so much and so much about and that we've been trying to eliminate. You can't do that! I call on leading political players, and I refer to them as having a different poll rating of more than two percent. Take responsibility for filling out the commission and it will be right, and it will be good and it will be, and it will be accountable to our people. Other suggestions that will be discussed and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at restoring the shameful administration. His, in Galician, in Donetsk, he will be his, and in every region this administrative resource will try to do the black thing that we talked about a lot about in the 2004 presidential election. Political parties, let's fight! Take responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u17	Sergei Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u18	Matweenkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, that we have adopted a bill on the conduct of elections in the system and on the methodology that there is a “full marabou”, it is said that everyone has understood that today. What effect do we have? Full of misunderstandings on the lists, streets fall off, neighborhoods fall off, and today this issue needs to be addressed. Second moment. Full inactivity in the commissions. What previous speakers said was only a partial reflection of the situation. This mechanism for the formation of party representation commissions has led to professionals today, let's say, those who have worked and worked on the commissions have all remained, virtually, “onboard”. We need to ensure that elections are properly held. Therefore, if we impose on such commissions today the right to change the voting day on the lists, we will receive a calavarca that will lead to the total collapse of the elections and will give absolutely nothing. It is with full responsibility. Because half of the members of the commission to date did not understand clearly what their duty was and what they should do on election day. This is the first moment. Second moment. No one has the right to deprive a citizen of his or her right to vote. Here I agree to 100 percent. The Constitution has determined that. This right is enshrined in the Constitution and when we did these things that were related to lying people who couldn't come to the sites. In any case, we acted unconstitutionally. That's why I'm responsible for having the right to vote. But this can be done by a decision of the court, not by a decision of the commission. Here is the part of the law that says that three hours before the end of the election, a voter who has not entered the list has the right to appeal to the court and the decision of the court to restore his right to vote, I think that part should be implemented. I therefore believe that it would be the right option to reject the bill. Tomorrow morning, to prepare a new bill, which would consist of one section, so that those who for objective or subjective reasons did not get on the list would have the right to reinstate their right to vote through a court decision. All the rest of the evil stuff. Everything else will lead to total chaos at polling stations. Everything else will lead us to make such a calvard at the polling station at a 15-minute minimum vote on election day. Imagine that there will be another part of the people who will restore their rights there, we will simply bring about the collapse of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged thoughts on Bill 9185. May I have your attention, please? But we need to look at it again, go back to the consideration of this bill. Dear colleagues, I beg you to take your seats, because then you will again be accused of misunderstandings. I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, to listen to the offer. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft bill, Registration No. 9185, to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on complaints of inaccuracies in the voter lists." Please vote. [[10:30:00]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Three minutes, please. Yes, Komar, the faction “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Two laws were immediately discussed in the discussion that took place. I have reported one law that will allow citizens to complain about errors in voter lists, including before the day of the vote. This will provide additional guarantees. I've only reported this bill. So I hope that this law is supported by MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u21	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u22	Honorable colleagues may not have been fully aware of the draft laws that have been tabled for our consideration. I'm asking you all so much, let's just calm down. That's the first one. And the second. In accordance with our own ideas and preferences, we will normally vote, including the vote on the return of the bill, which did not get the necessary number of votes to put into the agenda. I'm asking you very much, let's do everything we can to make sure that the problems that arose in electoral legislation were considered, they were brought into the session room and voted normally. People will understand and come, they will be encouraged to vote responsibly. Otherwise, we will put up a lot of contradictions for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u23	Yes. Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u24	Thank you. I would like to point out that we have already, you know, twice expressed our views on this bill, the Supreme Council has not supported it. So I think we need to continue our work and go on, as they say, on a daily basis. Because when we now claim that this is how we ensure that elections are held honestly and without falsifications, the desire for such care is hidden, in fact, to induce such an opportunity to influence the electoral process somewhat. So I would be very careful, and I would urge everyone, including radio and television, to treat those who call on us not to forge elections. Because there's an old one like that, you know, a saying: how to escape with a stolen wallet, you have to yell, "Keep the thief!" And walk away from the market peacefully with your wallet in your pocket. Similarly, those who are now trying to defend the so - called will of the electorate by means of this law are trying to provide themselves with the opportunity to quietly leave the political market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u25	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u26	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, I'd like to repeat the main thesis once again. No matter how big and strong and smart the policies were, none of them had the right to deprive a person of the right to vote on election day. Based on this logic, the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc voted and called on everyone else to stop. And let us not forget that we have no right to deprive our citizens of the opportunity to vote. For the elections are the primary political right, the primary democracy that is so much at stake in this room when the discussions begin in general and in general. As a result of the vote of the current or those who have passed, I believe that it would be good for the media to put forward what factions and how they voted. Then it will be clear who is baking and who is just thinking about democracy doing the exact opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, once again, let's calm down and settle down. And we're going to make those decisions that we agreed on. In this way, it can be done, with respectable colleagues, and it can be made clear to the draft law that a person can vote on a decision by a district commission or a court. Exclude district committees with mandatory passport markings. Is that a compromise or not? So I'd like to have your attention. I would like to make it clear to the vote that the District Commissions and the Courts have the right to be marked in the passport. Please vote. [[10:35:30.]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, we will now make the right decision. Please calm down. Let's do it this way. May I have your attention, please? As was the "On Elections of the President of Ukraine" Act, only the decisions of the courts marked in the passport. That's the point. In view of this, I am voting on the adoption in the first reading and in general as a bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on allegations of inaccuracies in voter lists]] Only by decision of the court and marked in the passport on the ballot. Please vote. Well, the CLTC supports, dear colleagues, let's vote. [[10:36:29]] For 251 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the regulation of urgent matters, the improvement of electoral legislation, registration number 9222, has been announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! This project is agreed, so Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, as the manager of the working group, will provide information on which articles are proposed to be clarified. Please listen and we will immediately vote as you agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As Vladimir Mikhailovich has already said, we now have a project with you, registration number 922, to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the clarification of certain provisions of electoral legislation. The working group in which the members of the profiling committee participated, the representatives of almost all the political forces represented by the Rules, agreed on this bill, and let me report on the basic positions that we are proposing to support today. First of all, first of all. Recruitment of the electoral boards. Now it was in the law that the District Election Commission was completing. We have inserted the word “obliged to complete” — not only to complement, but rather to make it a responsibility to complete those district election committees, where there is not enough to organize the elections. The only thing I would ask, dear colleagues, is to pay attention and to take note that such offers can be made by public organizations, rural, rural, urban, and other subjects. This should be taken away. Only political parties, committee members and so on. The second position that is taken into account, which is proposed for support. It's an opportunity to allow district election committees to include in the lists of branches of those constituencies who work in these areas, to have the right not to vote at the place of residence, because it might be far and impossible for them to break out, but to have the right to vote in the area where they work as members of the district election boards, while excluding them from the residence lists. Third position. We have articles in the Law that speak of cases where a divisional election commission may find the elections invalid in one area or another. Here we added the word “only in such cases”, that is, there are no other cases except three, which are listed in the law, we do not allow, but only those which are listed in this law. And logically, the addition to this suggestion that such ballots are in the present case, if the elections are declared invalid at the polling station, is not taken into account in the calculation of the results of the vote. And another suggestion that's quite interesting, which we've included in the final position, is the task of the Central Electoral Commission with the involvement of the public media, primarily electronics, to teach through television, to teach election committees how they should act on the day and during the election preparation period and, most importantly, to constantly refer to our electorate with a request to go to the polling stations and to get acquainted with the lists, the stalemate of the voter list. Such changes are proposed in the Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies” and in the Law “On Elections to Local Authorities”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to address the urgent issues of improving electoral legislation. Please vote. [[10:41:16]] For 344 The law is passed. I would ask the Secretariat to draw up appropriate laws. It's accepted as law. Form appropriate laws to be submitted to the President of Ukraine today. For what reasons? Please, Shufrich microphone. Next up, Olena Bonadrenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Conciliation Council discussed the possibility of voting or including in one of the two bills of Bill 9216, which clarified the principle of counting votes in summation. Given that this bill was not a working group included in any of the laws, we ask that it be put to the vote, it was considered yesterday in a profile committee and that we vote today just as we voted in previous laws. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to decide. So that the committee was looking at this question yesterday, and on the concording board, we raised that question. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put to the vote 9216.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, you have raised this question, Nestor Ivanovich, but the Supreme Council has accepted it. The Conciliation Council has decided on two draft laws and there was a proposal -- if the Committee considers it, let's include in those bills that the agreed option is also for consideration. She didn't do it. Unfortunately, we can't go through all the bills right now. This is the decision of the Conciliation Council. I brought him to you. Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, with regard to article 64 in particular, where “state and municipal polygraph companies” have been removed. I want to point out that our faction is definitely against this change because we're losing, if they're making ballots and private polygraph companies, we might lose control of how these ballots are produced and how many. And that's what we've faced in the 2004 election.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, there is such a norm, but, please, agree, first. First of all, agree that there are quite a lot of areas where there are no state or municipal printeries. Areas like this. Unfortunately, it's too much. This is one moment. One second. You realize that the state’s district printery, at the level of technical equipment and product protection, is 50 years behind modern printing. And third, most importantly: The Central Election Commission requires those who will print these ballots to take into account all the levels of protection for printing these ballots. So this life has given us such a requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 has been announced. [[on the increase in the expenditure of the General Fund of the State budget for the holding of elections]] But I, my dear colleagues, would like to ask your support for us to accept only budget changes, presupposeing the funding of the elections, not trying to bring up other articles. One decision to make, and then we'll figure it out. With that in mind, I'd like to. Who will report from the committee? Then, your honors, let's do it this way: Law 9208 is the first to vote. There we need to delete, in order not to draw, article two, to supplement paragraph 41 of the content: “The Ukrainian Television and Radio Act” as drafted by the Ukrainian law on 12 January 2006. I don't think this has anything to do with the election, so let's take this down now and vote on what's going on with the election funding. Is there no objection? One minute, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna is, the head of the committee. Sophia Pavlovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? Bill No. 9208 provides for the solution of two complex issues: first, to ensure that our electorate is informed about the location of the premises, the time of the elections. And that's why we have to transfer the extra money to the Central Electoral Commission. The second question concerns the mandatory payment that today is foreseen for the members of the electoral commissions. We've been working on this bill with the Central Electoral Commission, and we believe that 700,000, almost, members of the electoral commissions, who are going to be working in the polling stations for three days, should receive the corresponding material reward. That's why we're proposing this bill to increase by nine times the amount of pay paid by bringing it to 150 dollars in three days. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u36	Yes, Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, dear friends, I propose that we vote only on election-related issues, because this is also an increase of 137 million deficits, if we still have any questions to decide which ones are in the bill, an increase of almost 500 million deficits. We already have a deficit of over 3% gross. And we can be exposed to what the President's veto will be imposed. I suggest: let's just do what we have to do with the election and the payment of the district commission, and I think the hall will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u38	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, all we have here is questions concerning elections and one more thing, I would like to point out for the transcript that the summary figures in article 1 and the addenda should be adjusted to take into account that the President of Ukraine has already signed the Law on Amendments to the State Budget Act 2006, which relates to the subsidies of the budget of the Dnipropetrov region and the budget of the city of Krivi Rig, amounting to 199.4 million dollars. So in this bill, I'm noting it for the transcript, we're going to correct it if we accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u39	Honorable National MPs. Have a seat, Ludmila Pavlovno, thank you. I mean, we're putting the Law to a vote right now, just foreknowing it. Please, from the government, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to ask you to really vote only on the issues involved in the election. I would like to ask Ludmila Pavlovna to agree to be considered now and passed Law 9208, which provides for only these expenses. It consists of three points of such. And I'm asking this bill to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? It is the draft law, registration number 9208, on amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 with the deletion of the second article. It's just about funding an electoral campaign. All other questions have been removed. I'm betting on a vote of approval as a matter of law. [[10:50:01]] For 384 Thank you. ‘For’ – 384. The law is passed. I'd like to prepare it for signature so that we can send this document to the President of Ukraine for consideration today. Dear colleagues, I am voting for inclusion in the agenda. May I have your attention, please? The draft law, registration number 9160, amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting concerning the share of foreign capital in statutory funds of television organizations and improving the public administration system. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[10:50:57]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 51, Communists - 54, BUT - 1, National Party - 31, “Our Ukraine” - 0, SPI - 12, National Block - 22, SDPU - 15, Ukrainian People's Party and National Movement of Ukraine - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 2, “Rebirth” - 1, “Reforms and Order” - 0, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Who, in order to go back to the draft law, to go back to the question of the inclusion of Law 9160 in the agenda, back to inclusion? [[10:51:57]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I ask you, let's hold consultations, then if there's political will, we'll have to go back to looking at this document. Yes, Your Honor, we've been discussing with you the draft Law on the National Programme to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2002-2005 and for the period up to 2010 on second reading. We simply did not have enough votes to make that decision because of technical circumstances. I'd like you to vote, Your Honor, because the Chernobyl nuclear station is closed today, but there's no document to show that they can take it out of operation. We need to make the right decision. So, your honor, I'm voting for a return to the draft law, registration number 2085. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:53:15]] For 294 We're back on track. Dear colleagues, we've considered all the amendments, so I'm voting on the adoption, we've already voted on the amendments, on the adoption of the second reading, and on the whole as the bill of draft law, registration number 2085. Please vote. [[10:53:45]] For 338 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We also need to go back to the draft Law on a State-wide programme for agricultural production in an area that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster for 2005-2015. [[second reading]] Registration number 7133. I am voting for the return to the draft Law, registration number 7133. Please vote. [[10:54:31]] For 274 We're back to the debate. Now I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on the Universal Programme for Agricultural Production in an area that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster for 2005-2015. Registration number 7133, for adoption as a matter of law. Please vote. 7133, I said. [[10:55:15]] For 302 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! We are now moving on to the discussion of the following issues scheduled for the government day. We have two questions on this point. About the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of coping with it. And the second question is about the summation of recreation and the recovery of children in the summer of 2005 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2006. We have, dear fellows, a deadline of 14 hours for these questions. As for the first question, the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming it. Present Deputy Minister of Health Valerius Petrovich Iwaszuk The first Deputy Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, will be the focal point. The report will take up to 15 minutes. Enough, Valery Petrovich? For answers to questions, write and lips for up to 20 minutes. Mikhail Vasilovich Loboda will be speaking from the committee for up to 10 minutes. It is suggested that the head of the Court of Auditors speak with information for up to five minutes and then hold a discussion, so that we can conclude our consideration of the matter. No warning? Please, Valery Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u42	Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the problem of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine as part of the Government's Day of Elections is a legitimate and completely justified decision. Because tuberculosis is probably one of the most objective markers of the country's socio-economic state and the quality of life of its citizens. The government is ready for the political conclusions of the Supreme Council. However, I would like to note this. First. The TB epidemic is an extremely inertial system in its response to even the right and timely response to epidemics. That is, the regression of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine will be delayed by five, six years later. The other one. By a combination of high - quality and quantitative signs, the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine was declared in 1995. It was then that the disease in all forms of tuberculosis was 84.1 per 100,000, and the death toll was 25.6 per 100,000, and 39,000 patients were found. The losses of tuberculosis in 2004 amounted to 2.4 billion dollars. Such an epidemic, the spread of tuberculosis in Ukraine, reached ten years earlier in 1995. This is confirmed by the fact that out of the total number of dead, 57 percent are chronic tuberculosis patients, which they discovered almost 20 years ago. Third. The significant biosocial factors that provoke the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine are and remain a sharp decline in the cellular and humoral immunity of the critical population of Ukraine as a result of a sharp deterioration in quality of life. Almost instant destruction of the TB dispensary system, which was very effective and existed in Soviet times. The reaction of society and the state to the early signs of tuberculosis, its epidemics, the absolute uncoordinatedness of national measures with those being carried out in neighbouring countries that form the only epidemic space, and the incomprehensibility of our standards to the modern doctrines of combating tuberculosis in the world. In fact, about the EP, which we are deciphering, the only epidemic space in the center of Ukraine is the intersection of migration. The biggest outbreaks of tuberculosis are the countries of Ukraine’s immediate neighbours. In Europe, the average rate of disease and death from tuberculosis per 100,000 inhabitants is 30.8. In Moldova at the same time, it's 139 in Romania, 149 in the Russian Federation, 112. The corresponding mortality rate in these countries is the highest in Europe, with an average population of 20 per 100,000. Today, the incidence of tuberculosis in Ukraine is 84.1 per 100,000 and the mortality rate is 23.1 per 100,000. In terms of territorial proximity to the countries mentioned above, it is absolutely not a coincidence that the highest mortality and disease rate in Ukraine is found in the southeastern regions of the country. I pay particular attention to the fact that the real threat of the tuberculosis epidemic, its first signs and urgent measures to halt epidemic development were brought to the fore by President Leonid Krawchuk of Ukraine on September 14, 1993, in the address of the First Fthiziatrics Assembly of Ukraine. Thus, without taking into account the above factors, any qualification of the policies of the modern Ukrainian state in the area of combating the tuberculosis epidemic will be one-sided and biased. Honourable National Deputies, the integral characteristics of the TB epidemic in Ukraine are: First. The severe interdependence of the rate of tuberculosis spread from the AIDS and drug epidemic. It's kind of a classic thing to do with each other. The other one. High levels of primary and secondary, chemical resistant forms of tuberculosis. [[30 per cent]] [[75 per cent]] Third. There are very dangerous trends in the spread of tuberculosis in previously prosperous areas of Ukraine. In particular, the increase in disease in 2005 compared to 2004 is as a percentage: in the Lviv region - plus eleven, in Kirovogrady - plus fifteen, in Rovinj - plus fourteen, in Hmelnicki - thirteen, in Cherkaskie - plus sixteen percent. An even more disturbing trend is the sharp increase in the incidence of children under 14 years of age with active tuberculosis. And again, in previously quiet regions. The percentage of the increase of 100,000 in 2005 compared to 2004 was: in the Republic of Crimea, plus forty percent, in the Plains, plus forty-seven, in Odessa, thirty-four, in Sumska, plus twenty-one percent. Particular attention needs to be paid to the increase in medical disease. Yes, in 1990, there were 30 patients in Ukraine, and in 2003 there were 800 doctors a year. Everything described above needs to be answered with questions about the causes of such trends. And here is a very useful conclusion from the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the use of State budget funds for the National TB Programme in 2002-2004. I'm drawing your attention to some of these, but I think we're looking at some very revealing parts of this document. I quote: “In violation of the requirements of article 49 of the Constitution and article 26 of the Law on Resorts, under the decision of the inter-ministerial commission on improving the activities of sanatoriums, led by former Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco in the context of an epidemic of tuberculosis from an existing network of health facilities, the assets of the anti-tuberculatory sanatorium “Pre-gorn” and the suspended activities of the Hire Sun sanatorium have been diverted from state property to private”. Next. The Ministry and the Academy of Medical Sciences do not issue orders for the introduction into health institutions of scientific works that have caused a loss of 2.5 million dollars. Next. The funding allocated from the State budget for the implementation of the National Programme was used by the Ministry of Health in 2002-2004 with significant violations of current legislation and ineffectively in the amount of 374 million dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, if the period 2002-2004, as analysed by the Court of Auditors, were to impose on the period of the last ten years of the greatest outbreak of the AIDS epidemic, it was concluded that this period was critical for the development of the tuberculosis epidemic, which caused it to be uncontrollable. I noted above that in its time the world’s best comprehensive and hard-core management system with measures to control and regulate the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine was instantly destroyed. As a result, the resources of the Ministry of Health as the primary responsibility to society for the quality of combating the tuberculosis epidemic have been reduced to a critical minimum. All 37 TB hospitals and all 120 TB dispensers — all that remains in the country — are not in line with the Ministry of Health. All of this is the property of local representative bodies. Of the 94 existing TB sanatoriums in the central budget, only 24 are funded. It is the local authorities who are responsible for the liquidation of 34 percent of dispensers between 1990 and 2004, 30 percent of sanatoriums, 13 percent of them. The reason is, like, rules, one: the cost and sale of land where there are TB facilities, and these are the best recreational and natural zones. Despite the destruction of health care facilities and TB prevention, which continues in Ukraine, the Ministry has engaged the following material, organizational resources: 1. As of January 2005, millions of dollars have been purchased and distributed in the Ukraine’s anti-tuberculosis regions for the sum of 37, 33,7 dollars. This enabled all TB patients to provide first and second rows of drugs. 2. During the current year, funding has been increased to 45 million dollars for the maintenance of antituberculosis sanatoriums, 12 percent more than in 2003. 3. Nearly 100 percent of preventive vaccination with BCG in maternity homes remains high. BCG's first and second reviews, almost 100 percent. And children under 7 are 94 percent. This has been achieved through centralized procurement of vaccines and distribution in Ukraine. 4. Annual Tuberculinodiagnostics of children between 1 and 14 years of age are conducted in all treatment facilities, and 95 percent of children are covered by this method. 5. There is a high level of preventive fluorographic testing, and the percentage of this is almost 54 percent of the adult population. Dear National Deputies! To launch a reverse development mechanism and eliminate the biosocial effects of the tuberculosis epidemic, in our view, is really possible. At any rate, the preconditions are: The concept of the State TB Control Programme 2007-2011 is being approved by Kabmin. The draft programme will come to Parliament in time. In terms of the concept, I'm only going to stop at two positions: 1. It refers to the most controversial methodology for overcoming the so - called doctrine epidemic. I quote the concept. “The process of creating a new quality system of anti-tuberculosis and treatment should be based on the dispensary principle of providing anti-tuberculosis assistance to the population. As far as DOC strategy is concerned, it should have a place, but as a short term and, I would say, an urgent one, that is, as a quick help. Right, where there are fires. The second major innovation is to create a system for the training of medical students and retraining of doctors of all specialties with basic knowledge of the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of tuberculosis regardless of the profession selected. However, the current financial and administrative management system, by the way, has allocated nearly 37 million dollars to tuberculosis this year. Thus, an active system, when the number of parallel electoral systems are in operation, completely disorganizes national medicine. In addition to the Ministry of Health, 13 other ministries and offices that use 37 percent of the consolidated budget for health care are the main regulators of the state budget for today. And that's 1.3 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating The president of Ukraine, Yushchenko, clearly defined the existing health management system. I quote: “This has to be done. In Ukraine there should be one and only health sector management centre.” In any state at a time when there is a real threat to national security, an extraordinary special regime for decision-making and management is applied in any area of life. In our view, it would be appropriate for a period of acute epidemics of social ills to reinvigorate the rigid vertical management of health and executive discipline. Speaking of the existing financial and methodological basis for overcoming the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, I cannot help but thank you very much for Ukraine's timely, multi-complex and substantial financial and organisational assistance from the United Nations, its agencies and non-governmental organizations. Without this, there would be no qualitative changes in national politics in the queen’s control of tuberculosis. And for the rest. It is evident that TB, AIDS, drug addiction, and other socially dangerous diseases can be overcome alone and personally from the world around them. Therefore, it will be appropriate for the ILO and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare projects of standing committees between the President of Ukraine and the Presidents of Russia, Moldova and Romania. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. Questions. Please sign in. Let's queue -- 20 minutes is on the question from directly national MPs and those who have submitted in writing. Please sign in. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u44	Thank you very much. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Of course, you have read us a very good lecture on the history of the matter, but you would like to be more specific about what the United Nations is doing not to quote us as President of Ukraine, but to name specific measures that we must take to overcome the epidemic, even though you are telling us that no country in the world can do so. And so, please tell me, do you not think that tuberculosis is exactly the satellite of this destruction that is in our country today, this state of medicine, where everything is done for money. Don't you think that's the main problem why we have a tuberculosis epidemic in the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u45	Thank you so much for asking. I'm told there wasn't one in the Soviet Union. It was twice after the war in 1947, but the Soviet system overcame it very quickly and prevented TB from spreading throughout the country. And that's why we're saying that today we need to restore the principle of dissipation, which is very important. Return to the Soviet system of health care in this part. It's about what's going on. No matter how much money is allocated to the fight against tuberculosis, it is impossible to apply effectively if there is no system for managing these costs. And what happened today, from the report, did you see that all the sanatoriums, the TB dispensers, were eliminated by whom in Crimea, Odessa? A local government that formed, by the way, five years ago. Sold because of the value of the land. For this to be the case, we ask the Supreme Council to change health legislation to restore the vertical management system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u46	Please, let me ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u47	I said that, that's a social problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u48	Valery Petrovich, you have a written question there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Similarly, the Communist faction asked a written question about the two sanatoriums I had called. I answered that in my report. The only thing I want to say is that no sanatorium in the Department of Health's office has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u50	Sergei Shevchuk, Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear Valery Petrovich! Unlike a colleague who tried to criticize you, I would like to thank you for an extremely professional, meaningful, and faithful presentation, and for the report in which we saw new approaches by the Ministry of Health. But here's the question. You know as well as we do that the problem of combating tuberculosis is far from medical, but it is a social problem. Please tell us what we are talking about today on this issue, which was discussed at the National Security and Defence Council, are you speaking up, Mr. Valery Petrovich, and not the Deputy Prime Minister on humanitarian issues, because he is in charge of the National Coordination Council, which unfortunately avoids direct duties of Vice-Prime Minister on humanitarian issues, because this problem is interdisciplinary, intersectoral? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking. As far as tuberculosis is concerned, it is not a purely medical problem, which is, as I said in my report, a quality of life marker and the quality of the functioning of the State, that it is an integral problem that is caused by the deterioration of general health only at the last stage of the development of infection, because this is caused by the social condition of man and society, you are absolutely right. Because of this, it is impossible to eliminate and overcome the effects of tuberculosis in a white robe. This is a problem for both the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because there is a source of tuberculosis in the institutions of willlessness. And of course, I think it's such an integral problem that it has to be presented at a level that is even higher and higher than the level of only the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u53	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u54	Yes, thank you. So from the Julia Volodymyrna faction, Timoshenko, on the prospect of national coordination councils and, in particular, on the TB Coordination Council. There is a problem in this matter. The problem is that the coordinating boards, as a tool for inter-agency coordination and national governance in the fight against tuberculosis in this case, are the bodies that do not accept or should not take decisions at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, first. So this is a meeting of people who just get together and talk about something. That's the first one. The other one. At the same time, in May of last year, individuals with a foreign passport have been introduced into the coordination councils, and according to the Regulations of the Coordinating Council, this body makes decisions that are binding on the State. This raises the question of how the Coordinating Council may be a person with a foreign passport and make decisions that are binding on our State. Therefore, the legal and regulatory basis of the Coordination Councils without revision is now being reviewed in the view that such bodies are needed. Another issue is that the coordination board, apart from coordination, needs to be in charge. Therefore, the position of the Ministry of Health in this matter should be a coordinating body, but its status should not be demeaning to our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u55	Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u56	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. Dear reporter, tuberculosis is a social problem, but you've taken your report to new classics and government achievements. We can agree on the need for an interstate agreement. You named the presidents a few countries, but somehow you didn't name our closest neighbor to Belarus. Is it not because their disease rate is three times lower than that in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u57	Yes, thank you. Well, you answered your own question. Indeed, Belarus is not included in the list of countries where tuberculosis has gone to epidemic levels. It's a good situation. And we're talking about how to form or create such permanent commissions with epidemic, dangerous fires around Ukraine, and this is objectively Russia, this is Romania and this is Moldova. As to what you're saying about quoting. Sadly, after a short period of time, I did not quote another thing that the President of Ukraine had done. He introduced the minister of health into the MPO. From now on, in our view, any decision in the ORP, whatever it may be, whether it's energy or agriculture, or launching missiles or any question, will be considered in context because of the prism of relevance or harmfulness to health. Thank you. With regard to the question from the faction of “Regions”. Here are some questions about the World Bank’s aid program. Well, first of all, a big thank you to the faction of "Regions" for that question, because it's extremely painful, and now in government, it's the main pain, in large numbers. Unfortunately, the previous Minister of Foreign Affairs of Gritchcock, I apologize whether Grishenko had already forgotten, Grishchenkok, yes, in 1993, the World Bank had made such a deal that Ukraine -- I'll tell you this: the World Bank gives you almost a hundred million dollars and says: "I'll lend you money, you'll serve this money, I won't let you use it on time, you'll pay the fines, and you won't actually see it, I'll buy it, I'll determine what prices, who's still there, and you'll just pay me back, and with a lot of credit service." Therefore, the Ministry of Health today believes that the terms of the loan, the terms of the loan and, above all, the terms of the loan should be reviewed. If the World Bank does not agree, we will invite the World Bank to reorient the remaining money into a new agreement that is absolutely necessary for Ukraine to do so, this strategy is to build a blood processing plant and convert, give in word, the level of self - production of our blood products into world standards when the blood processing plant makes all the nomenclature needed for our health care, from blood and its products.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u58	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u59	Boris Bespalij, Viktor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. Well, a few years ago there was such a feeling that really, to fight TB -- only the Supreme Council, which adopted the Anti-Tuberculosis Act, is fighting. It was nice to hear today, and so we can see that this is also the President's priority, it was considered by the National Security Council, that they gave solid materials to the Cabinet of Ministers and the profile committee, a good speech. And I would like to thank you for the specific and professional answers that happen, unfortunately, not always. And there are all kinds of measures in the program. So, as an MP to whom voters often turn, I wanted to turn to two such specific problems. What I'm particularly interested in is the prospects for post-tuberculosis travel in the sanatorium, anti-tuberculosis measures, especially about, for poor children and pensioners, including people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u60	Thank you so much for asking. I can say that for the concept and the new national programme that the Supreme Council is expected to adopt in July this year and the existing budget, and especially for the next budget, a percentage of all children, not just from socially disadvantaged families, will be provided on the way to rehabilitation facilities. Sanatoriums and anti-tuberculosis resorts, that's how it's supposed to be done. The next question from the MP's "Rebirth" faction concerns the question that I have already mentioned in my report, but it is extremely dangerous. These are, so-called, chemically resistant forms of tuberculosis that are not treatable by classical schemes and classic drugs. What happened? The trouble is that when the system I was talking about was destroyed, the drugs weren't enough and they weren't giving the necessary therapeutic doses, they were dividing the dose by one person, let's say it was half or only a third. And they were brought up, so-called resistant forms of tuberculosis inducers, and they brought up this resistance with the wrong kind of therapy. And so today we have a situation where in the most functioning sources or in the fires of tuberculosis, there's a cause that's not treatable with classical antibiotics and anti-tuberculosis drugs. What do you want to do? It is necessary to implement urgently, and it is already being done with a special laboratory examination of not only the patient but also the cause of the medication menu to which this inducer is resistant to appointment and no longer to develop resistance. This is especially in the concept, in the national program, this is the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u61	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u62	I just responded to the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u63	Letters, I'm sorry. Santa's Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u64	Nightshenko Mikola, “Litvina National Block”. Judging from the question of combating tuberculosis, which is, in my opinion, poverty and the disease of hunger and cold, leaders start fighting when they become presidents. Why not fight when they are prime ministers? And it is important to list all the prime ministers who, unfortunately, are leading the political blocs today. How do they plan to combat tuberculosis? The next question. Please tell me, what is the percentage of TB patients in closed establishments? And to give you a detailed account of closed facilities. Treating, rehabilitating? How do they get into society? And the next. Questions are raised about the allocation of tuberculosis hospitals to separate medical facilities with separate funding. What do you think about this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u65	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, it's almost, I'd say, the most functioning link in the epidemic process in Ukraine. On the one hand, and it's usually bad, but on the other hand, they're organized groups. Thus, in the proper organization of antituberculosis measures, since these groups are organized, it is very easy to solve this problem. Because they're people who don't distribute tuberculosis beyond the point of being deprived of their will. Although there are such contagious relationships inside that it is almost impossible to maintain TB in one group or team. As to what steps will be taken in places of deprivation and already being carried out. This is, above all, just when we're talking about the DOC strategy, this is a great example of the fact that the ambulance, like a hospital of ambulances, is like an ambulance. This DOC strategy has to be applied to this functioning epidemic fire, which it will do. And we're reorienting this DOC strategy money right to the point of taking away the will to eliminate these epidemics, epidemics, or epidemic fires. If you'd like to do it again, please. I'm sorry. I didn't hear the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u66	So, Mikola Petrovich, let's work out what we're asking on one question. But we're on the same page and you're on the same page. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u67	Thus, a written question from the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health Care. The committee asked a lot of questions, and we sent our answers to the committee in a special way, almost a whole book came out. But most of the questions are, with emphasis, questions again on the DOT strategy program, the adapted strategy and the disease of doctors. According to the DOC strategy, I've already explained that if the committee is dissatisfied, they're going to ask questions about doctors. Unfortunately, our doctors are completely immune to high-contagion diseases such as tuberculosis. And not just because there are no means of disinfection in time and in full, not just because the contact takes place mainly in the ambulance mode, but not in the scheduled examinations we talked about, but also because the doctors are poor. Because an epidemicly unstable person has tuberculosis when he is undernourished, when he has constant nervous stress, and when he has TB patients, stress is constant. And it's impossible to take away that stress when you get low wages. So there's a call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's ready for the next budget to raise the wages of physiatrics and physicians who are at risk of contact with diseases such as AIDS, such as tuberculosis to such a limit, to remove the most epidemicly significant factor in tuberculosis, such as stress, uncertainty in their salary, uncertainty in their future life as a doctor, and the fulfilment of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u68	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u69	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] You know, the Minister of Health, who was retired by President Yushchenko, went to the rostrum and started to report on medical issues from the fact that if Yushchenko had not had family medicine, there would have been no attention to cardiology. Today this continues, with President Yushchenko and the topic of tuberculosis coming from the rostrum. I'm interested in a more ground-based question. First. What explains is that TB in Belarus is three times less than what we have. That's the first one. And I'm wondering when we're talking about social protection, if you could put a figure in the microphone, a doctor's salary at the office and the office. And please tell me what the Ministry has done today to get medical school graduates to go to the gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u70	Thank you very much. Good questions all. First, about the President. I was just saying in my statement that the Supreme Council had launched a mechanism for optimizing the fight against tuberculosis, because if it wasn't for the proper budget of the state you've adopted, it would hardly be possible to fight tuberculosis. First. The other one. About Belarus. Two factors in Belarus contain an epidemic of tuberculosis: almost no migration processes are the first. And secondly, the fact that Belarus still has a Soviet dissipation system. It's about pay. Unfortunately, if you throw away the one-and-a-half bets, there's something extra, something else. Unfortunately, in a clean way, the doctor gets 300 dollars, as they say: “Price fish – bad soup”. But doctors work very well, but the stress is that they pay them so much money for the job. And the last question is yours, as far as I'm concerned. In the concept of, as I was speaking, a new strategy of combating tuberculosis, we've put it down, you're absolutely right to say, regardless of the professional orientation and the chosen profession, starting with the first course of the med school and ending with the internet, they will definitely be taking a basic course in diagnosis, treatment and prevention of tuberculosis, as it was, among other things, once. It is no coincidence that doctors today do not know how to diagnose classical chats in a child because they have eliminated pediatric faculties. And they diagnose what, gangrene angina, instead of making the right diagnosis, just for the reasons you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u72	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u73	From the profile committee, the first deputy chairman of the committee, Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, please, 10 minutes. Get Simonenko Valentine ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the Ukrainian government, respected fellow countrymen. The problem of tuberculosis in Ukraine has not even lost its relevance since its spread. On the contrary, the process was actually out of control, in a situation of political instability, when governments at the highest executive level changed annually or more, in practice, there were no persons responsible for coordinating against tuberculosis at the national level. The absence of a clear strategy for overcoming the tuberculosis epidemic, understanding the social dimension of this disease, indecisiveness and incoherence in carrying out appropriate measures are the main causes of the deterioration in the situation in Ukraine. In any case, notable, adequate and, above all, professional action to stop the epidemic has not been used. The composition of the interdisciplinary commission to combat tuberculosis was changing at a caleidoscope rate and did not have any real impact on the situation. An example is the introduction into practice recommended by the World Health Organization of the TB strategy known as the DOC strategy. For almost 10 years, discussions have taken place around its introduction in Ukraine, despite the fact that significant changes have been made in the areas where it was used in Kiev and the Donetsk region to improve the epidemic situation with tuberculosis. As a result of the parliamentary hearings held in May 2003, the government was encouraged to extend the experience of the sites in question throughout Ukraine during 2004, but this has not yet been done. No one should be convinced of what a vital factor in the fight against tuberculosis is the vaccine’s prevention. As early as 1998, credit from the government of Ukraine had purchased the equipment needed to produce more than 18 million German stamps, but by now the equipment was rolled in warehouses and was morally outdated, and the production of the essential TB vaccine had not been fixed. It will not be unnecessary to remind our economists and financiers and the government that more than 29 million euros have been spent on the repayment of interest on these loans and on the state budget of Ukraine, however much new equipment could be purchased at this cost. The problem of Tuberculosis of the Penitentiary System, where the disease rate is nearly 50 times higher than the average in Ukraine, has remained acute. The places of deprivation have become an extremely dangerous centre, and experts now believe that TB is a dangerous major engine for the epidemic. According to their estimates, the number of persons infected in the Department of Enforcement is 10 percent of the total number of persons held. And the rate of annual increase in the number of infected and TB patients is about 25 percent. At the same time, the department’s management is effectively concealing the real state of affairs, which is misleading the leaders of the state, the local executive authorities, and the public with regard to the spread of disease in subordinate institutions and measures. The government can't find a decision against two authorities: the State Department and the IMF on how to maintain and treat patients with active forms of tuberculosis who are selected to be detained as a precautionary measure. For a long time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed normative legislation to provide further medical care for patients with tuberculosis who have been released from institutions of punishment and who are very active in the spread of tuberculosis among the population. While appreciating the current situation of tuberculosis, it can be said that during the epidemic in Ukraine, no government has shown its ability to influence the situation. This is also evident from the comparative evidence of the basic parameters of tuberculosis disease and death, which are becoming worse every year. In the last ten years, when the epidemic reached its peak, it has doubled by more than 80 cases per 100,000 population. By the way, at the beginning of the epidemic, this was 50 cases. There are more than half a million people in anti - TB facilities. Each year, they grow by almost 40,000. The number of patients who die from tuberculosis has increased by 11,000 per year. In some areas, mainly in the south-eastern region, tuberculosis disease and mortality are higher than the average in Ukraine by one and a half times. This statistical phenomenon, in fact, the causes of the spread of tuberculosis in the areas indicated, does not yet have a convincing scientific basis, but does not mean that there are any real mechanisms of practical resistance. The number of patients diagnosed with tuberculosis in the late stages continues to increase rapidly. In severe and neglected forms, the causes of the disease are becoming more and more resistant to several antituberculosis agents. There has been a very dangerous trend in the significant increase in the drinking weight of young, hardworking, and TB - infected children. The evidence indicates a low level of early diagnosis and treatment of patients with early tuberculosis when the disease is the most susceptible to specific treatment. Against the backdrop of the real threat to national security, the state is being created by the increasing scale of the tuberculosis epidemic, which is causing amazement at the inaction of central and local executive authorities, their passiveness in the implementation of public knowledge and special measures aimed at combating tuberculosis. Despite the rapid increase in tuberculosis, during the 1990s and 2004 years in Ukraine, the network of anti-tuberculosis dispensers, hospitals, sanatoriums and beds has been reduced by almost a third. 61 anti-tuberculoskeletal dispenser has been eliminated for 10,000 beds. 86 anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums for 17,000 beds. Low wages, regular job cuts, the lack of adequate mechanisms to stimulate work and the social protection of health - care professionals in anti - tuberculosis establishments have led to a significant shortage of personnel in the physical health service, which now accounts for about 40 percent and more than half of those in retirement. The occupational illness of TB workers increased more than 20 times over the period. The checks that have been carried out over the past five years by the National Court of Auditors have shown the same typical distortions in the use of State budget funds allocated to the implementation of the State Programme for the Fight against Tuberculosis. Significant amounts were spent on the target, and most of them were not for the target, but most were ineffective. I think Valentine Konstantinovich Simonenko will be more specific about this. There is no real aid for a large number of people today, about 150 social organizations, and charities that have declared their activities in the field of combating tuberculosis and are now openly fighting for a leading role in the distribution of humanitarian aid and funds into the charity. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood introduced a draft decision recommended by the Government of Ukraine and other central executives to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to implement a series of measures to help halt the epidemic and improve the overall situation of tuberculosis. Please support the committee's draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u75	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko is invited to attend. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable people's deputies and members of the Government! I'm sorry, but I'll remind you that as early as 1995, the World Health Organization had registered an epidemic of tuberculosis in Ukraine. The extraordinary fact, which remained undetected by both the Government and the Ministry of Health, and the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, has progressed and adopted the scales that threaten the national security of the country. Six years later, the National Programme against Tuberculosis in 2002-2005 was developed and adopted. Last year, on the recommendation of the Supreme Council, the Court of Auditors conducted an audit of the effectiveness of the implementation of the national programme, the tasks of which were identified as a priority. Here are some of the results of this programme: The implementation of the national programme by the Ministry of Health was limited to procurement of anti-tuberculosis drugs, diagnostic drugs and vaccines. Only one of the activities scheduled for 4 years has been implemented. At the age of 11, there was no permanent State registry for epidemiological analysis, nor was it established in 2005. The Ministry of Health has not developed and approved standards for the number of beds to ensure permanent treatment of patients in anti-tuberculosis establishments, in sanatoriums. The number of beds for the submission of stationary tuberculosis treatment is decreasing by an average of 350 beds per year each year. Including in 2005. During the 10 years of the epidemic in Ukraine, 27 of the 119 tuberculosis sanatoriums ceased their activities. At the same time, the number of beds fell by more than 6,000. All of this is due to a rapid increase in morbidity. The number of tuberculosis patients and their deaths in 2005 exceeded the epidemic threshold by three times. Today, about 800,000 people are in control of treatment facilities, 1 in 5 with an infectious active form of tuberculosis. Here's your priority public tasks. More than 700 million bracelets were spent on the Programme, 71 per cent of which were spent in violation of existing legislation and ineffectively. Millions of budget bracelets, funds spent on research work do not affect the quality of the patient. The reason is banal. Neither the Ministry of Health nor the Academy of Medical Sciences issued decrees to implement them, but budget money was being used. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Economy did not ensure the establishment, production of domestic anti-tuberculosis vaccines. The credit agreements already received equipment for these purposes in 98 years are physically and morally ageing. And the production doesn't work. The budget-recovery mechanism is $29.4 million. Euros are used to secure this credit agreement, not available. These are the sad results of an audit to improve the National Programme against Tuberculosis in 2002-2005. The results of the audit of the Court of Auditors are sent to two Prime Ministers last year, two Ministers of Health, two Secretaries of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, one Prosecutor General. Regrettably, in analysing the replies received, it was necessary to note that all agreed, but no one took specific measures. There were no adequate responses, but the problem was practically discussed. There is an attempt to make it an on-call business by the Government, in our view, today. Read the analysis and background material on the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and the ways in which it was handled by the Government. First point. Consider the fight against tuberculosis in Ukraine as priority tasks. One. Second paragraph. It is proposed that a programme to combat tuberculosis be developed, which has not yet been implemented. And the last. Ten years have not produced positive results. It's legal when the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u78	and this is legal when the Government and its central authorities act not as organizers responsible for the eradication of the epidemic, but as registrators, the increase or reduction of the disease or the reduction of the disease. Health efficiency. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u79	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Yeah, we'll talk about it? We will. I think the problem is that it's too serious. Shall we vote on the verdict? Then from the factions, please. We'll take 30 minutes to discuss it. And let's just make sure we do it without interrupting, and then we'll call it a break. Please representatives of factions, and then, if there is time, and national MPs who are not authorized by factions to speak. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Prepare Katuszewa Zari. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “The People’s Block of Lithuania”. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs, representatives of the media! The rapid rise in the disease and mortality of the Ukrainian population from tuberculosis is convincing, and the epidemic is spreading, gaining extremely dangerous, not always curative, resistant forms. One of the main causes of the outbreak of this dangerous disease, according to the findings of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, is the ineffective use of the funds allocated to the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the national TB programme in 2002-2005. At the time of the creation of the new analog program, the situation resembles a famous saying, remember, of a dog that barks when the caravan goes. So the National Block of Lithuania, taking into account the acuteity of the problem, is addressing the government and also asking the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine: “Where did the state funds allocated for such critical social and social goals come from?” We are also interested in another question: “Why did the Ministry of Health, whose sacred duty is to ensure the health and epidemic well-being of the population and to carry out national health programmes in 2002-2005, I emphasize, 2005 included, fail to perform these duties?” That's why we insist. First. The Government's June 2005 Decision on the Establishment in Ukraine of a Coordinating Council for the Control of Tuberculosis as a form of public control over the system of anti-tuberculosis measures and, first of all, the passage and use of funds. The other one. Thermal reform of the TB management system and the establishment of an appropriate unit in the state of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Third. Recommend that the Government of Ukraine develop a national tuberculosis control programme for 2007-2011 to involve interested public organisations and ensure public discussion. Four. In view of the particularly harmful working conditions of the Phtysian physicians at this stage, it is only at this stage that we entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the granting of the status of public officials of this category of medical personnel or the development of another system of incentive measures to stimulate the interest of medics in coping with this terrible scourge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u81	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction. She'll be followed by Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u82	I would like first of all to draw attention to the Cabinet of Ministers. Look, today's Parliament is discussing the most pressing topic: the problem of all of our Ukrainian people, we have an epidemic. But at that time, Kabmin is in charge of electoral matters, not of his people, as always! What happened in the territory of the former Soviet Union, unless it was a social and economic shock, would not be said to be: the extreme poverty of the population, the decline in living standards, the constant stress, the elimination of social security by the State, the breakdown of health care, migration processes, unemployment and, as a result, the sharp decline in immunity among the general population was the source of the tuberculosis epidemic. Ukrainian Phthiziats particularly emphasize the role of socio-economic factors in the emergence of the tuberculosis epidemic, as a mirror of the political, socio-economic and cultural situation of the country's population. Actually, the term for tuberculosis was itself. emerged in the 19th century as diseases of poverty, hunger and social unrest. The combination of living conditions: housing, nutrition, working conditions and other social factors can provide resistance to the organism. Many unfavourable diseases, including tuberculosis, have long been observed by scientists, medical professionals and historians to note that all total social shocks are accompanied by growth as cardiovascular diseases, especially infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis. And that's what millions of our people take. Other causes of the increase in disease can also be seen as the destruction of the entire physiatric service in Ukraine, unjustified reductions in the number of anti-tuberculosis dispensers and sanatoriums, their fetal fund, the reduction in the number of Phtysiats, the progression of the tuberculosis and AIDS epidemic, insufficient medical care and for socially vulnerable groups, the reduction of population immunity as a result of constant stress and the deterioration of the socio-economic situation in the country. The role of social factors is demonstrated by such data. I'll at least bring in the Crimea. In Crimea, it's very high, you know, the percentage of unemployment, and that's what's gotten the working population sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Mikola Noshchenko, “Litvina National Block”. He will be followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u84	Mikola Noshchenko, “Litvina National Block”, 160 constituency, Sumstina. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Well, it can be concluded that today’s Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, has failed to create a clear system of combating tuberculosis. As an example, it can be said that so far there is no register of patients, and therefore, in my opinion, state statistics do not allow us to be sure that these are reliable information. The old national program was both formally and formally executed. It did not have a major impact on the situation. For example, I have in my district -- the latest news -- for the treatment of this disease, budget funding is allocated in five percent to the need, fluorographic equipment, for example, 70 years from installation. If you take one-bed-day security: food, within 10 bracelets, the actual costs are only two bracelets. Well, we've already talked about tuberculosis being a disease of poverty, tuberculosis is a disease when there's not enough heat and food. What must be done. Well, first of all, in an aura of order, the concept, the state-of-the-state target program project, has to be given state-of-the-art status. Secondly, I support the proposals made by the Zarubinsky People's Chamber, but to add that there is a need to create a special supervisory commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for tuberculosis. The second proposal is to provide the Institute for Phtysiatrics and Pulmonology of Janowski's Name with the status of the National Scientific Centre and to establish an all-U.S. TB Control Centre on its basis, and to address the issue of financing and human resources. Next. At the regional level, the district level needs to be allocated to or restored to the district hospital tuberculosis wards with separate funding, enabling them to contribute to funding. We know that TB sufferers are usually the same; they are not visited by relatives, relatives, or food and medicine. And third, we make a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers: A decision based on a report made by the head of the accounting office and the guilty in disposing of the purposeless use of the budget must be attracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u85	Yes, John the Rabbit. I saw him somewhere. Oh, I'm sorry. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u86	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plushka Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally heard a report from the Ministry of Health. The deputy minister didn't go against the manoeuvring, he didn't just focus on medical problems, he drew our attention to a whole set of problems that caused the tuberculosis epidemic. Our attention was drawn to the fact that the tuberculosis epidemic was associated with a factor such as migration. So we should be doing very well today to make sure that, after all, control over the border, particularly from the east, is increased. We need to understand that we are in the path of a migrant, large migrations. And that. What comes up from the stairs, and these are people of a different culture, are people who carry drugs, people who carry guns and many other things. So let's think about that border being controlled and that this uncontrolled migration should be stopped. As you can see, there was a clear picture of the relationship between drug abuse and tuberculosis. Because drugs, they lower human immunity. And that's why a person who is using drugs again today has a big reality that's going to get TB. We know that the National Security and Defence Council has been looking into TB, but it seems to me that it is time for the National Security and Defence Council to consider the issue of illicit drug trafficking. This is a disaster that destroys our young people today. This is a disaster that is causing other diseases today. Because it is on the backdrop of a general decline in health that diseases such as tuberculosis occur. Another problem that I'd like to draw your attention to is places of deprivation. Again, not all conditions are created so that one does not suffer from tuberculosis. On the contrary, it is very common for people to get sick. I think we may also need to review the Criminal Code to reduce responsibility for minor crimes, especially for children. Because this is how we expose them to tuberculosis again, and again, to severe health problems. And another factor is the social factor. It's already been said here, but we need to understand. That without job creation, without the elimination of unemployment, there is no way to solve the medical problem today. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy supports the implementation of the national program, supports strategic decisions and solutions to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u87	Mikola Komar, “Regions of Ukraine”. Prepare Prowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, today's Government Day is dedicated to an extremely important issue in our society -- a problem that affects not only the health and life of our citizens, but also the well-being of the state and of all humanity, which poses a threat to Ukraine's national security. Since 1995, TB has been recognized as an epidemic in Ukraine. For this reason, all executive, legislative, and judicial authorities should work in the SOS system. But what do we have today? I would like to remind everyone that according to paragraphs eight and nine of the Supreme Council's position on Government Day, the Prime Minister of Ukraine or the appointed member of the Cabinet of Ministers is speaking. But we see that those who were to represent the government are not. I have nothing against the deputy minister, and I thank him very much for his statement. But today he was to report, I repeat, to the Prime Minister or to the Deputy Prime Minister on humanitarian issues. Perhaps the problem does not seem so important to them that they personally come to the people’s deputies. I'm sorry. Because it's the people's deputies who have a few questions. Dear colleagues, today's issue of Government Day is very important for the safety of our citizens. The situation against tuberculosis is catastrophic. This is not just a medical issue, but an epidemic is affected by the socio-economic situation in the country. The president, who promised to go to the polls, create jobs, better living conditions, free medical care, promised to overcome homelessness and poverty in the state, but all that remained was a slogan. I propose to stop the discussion and until the President of Ukraine, who cares so much for a small Ukrainian, comes to the Supreme Council with the responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and takes the initiative to deal with the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, with the specific ones responsible for the direction, with the proposal to set up a central body to coordinate the implementation of a single policy in the area of countering this terrible epidemic, so long as we do not approach the discussion of this issue. Dear colleagues, at the end of the day, I want to remind all of you that the tuberculosis epidemic has been in our country twice in the last century, 36-37 and 46-47 years, and it has both been successfully overcome in a few years. And then they didn't do empty talk, they did specific things. I urge the government to mention past experience and get to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u89	Mikola Porovski, “Rebirth”. Next Shevchuk Sergey. There's no Prowsky? Please, Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Let's get ready, we agreed to work until the issue is complete, then we'll call it a break. So far, we're working on this issue, and then there'll be a break. Next Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, knows that health is not only a disease but also a complete physical, spiritual, and social well - being. Since tuberculosis is a socially determinable disease, we feel that social well - being is the foundation that can solve this problem. Tuberculosis is spreading not only among poor, imprisoned contingents but also among all Ukrainian citizens. A well - known fact is that our famous landlady, Lesia Ukraine, herself had tuberculosis. But today we must recognize that, in fact, Ukraine, as a state suffers from drought. I hope not, Lesia wrote. Without hope, I'm dying, they say. For the first time, the RNA has looked at an open and honest state of the tuberculosis epidemic and determined which breakthrough today the nation’s health had stopped. But the observation of the fact is only half to talk about ways to overcome the epidemic, first of all, we need to analyze why it happened. Why the Academy of Medical Sciences has not yet produced an effective diagnostic and treatment program that is understandable by the medical profession. Why did tender purchases of anti-tuberculosis drugs by former MOH leaders come at prices, I would like to point out that several times the price of similar drugs on the European continent? Who granted permission to privatize some 90 anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums, and who today owns these facilities, including among the national deputies? And the main thing is, why are only the medics responsible again and again for the spread of the epidemic? Because the National Coordinating Council for the Fight against Tuberculosis is still not functioning properly in the Cabinet of Ministers. And the decision on this is a small administrative decision, we need to take experts, join the public and coordinate, and we need to take systematic measures to combat the epidemic in our country. It is known that what a high percentage of sick people who help the TB population are themselves ill, who are going to treat these patients. Their work is unselfish service to the sick, because the state has determined that their work will be paid in times twenty less than that of the civil servants. The position of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on this issue is understood, social well-being is a guarantee of success. And what was once alleged to be a budget for eating, in fact, in the government of Timoshenko, was a health budget. We demand that health - care funds be allocated not less than 6 percent of the gross domestic product and medical bills per formula: so many thousands of dollars per year to a working doctor, so many years to a physician himself. The more social problems we put.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u91	Leonid Czernovecki, “Our Ukraine”. Next Usachenko by quota, “Reform and Order”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u92	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies and those who listen to us. This is our Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. I want to say a lot about what's really going on with diseases like tuberculosis and AIDS and hepatitis C, etc. All of this, we are reaping the fruits of the criminal regime that has been in Ukraine for many years. When funds from the Ministry of Health to deal with these issues were simply stolen for the purchase of various expensive items, which in principle were then used to treat those who could really wait a little longer. What do we have today? It's a terrible problem. Mainly, speaking of tuberculosis, I would like to say that the local authorities, including the Kiev State Administration, are completely disrespectful to those who today have this problem in Kiev. I was recently approached by a family where at first there was one ill tuberculosis, and they live in a room in a communal apartment with a rooster. I'm writing to the administration, "Karoul!" So give them an opportunity to settle down." First they write this family, then they have one patient with an open form of tuberculosis, then they have two patients, and I think they're all already ill with tuberculosis. I believe that, of course, given the information provided by the Ministry of Health, I do not need to talk about it for three minutes, because of all the speakers, I know more about it, because one and a half thousand people pass through my centers and perhaps one third of them suffer from various terrible forms of disease. No one's doing them at all. I have facts that just people who can't pay from hospitals are thrown out like dogs into the woods, taking them out on a stretcher. Calling an ambulance on these occasions is useless. Local Kiev homes, tuberculosis hospitals are half empty, Karaul! Look, earlier in Desert Vodice, I remember we had isolated cases of tuberculosis, they were treated. It's a complete disgrace. I have put forth a bill to eliminate, by the way, the benefits and privileges of all branches of government. We would have given all these sanatoriums to tuberculosisers and all the other patients -- no, we would have held on to them by the whole power community as hell for the wrong soul. And at least they'd do something good for those who demand respect from us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u93	Larissa Usachenko on the quota of the Reforms and Order faction to prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u94	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear members of the government! Dear National Deputies! Tuberculosis is a disease that poses a threat to the state and society as a whole. The main causes of the worsening epidemic of tuberculosis are the increase in the number of social dissipated population groups, refugees, migrants, persons in criminal and executive institutions, people without permanent residence, people with chronic somatic diseases, alcoholism and drug addiction. Tuberculosis causes high temporary and persistent loss of work, requires long - term comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation of patients. But it is very difficult to provide them in the right amount in connection with the high loss of laboratory diagnostic equipment and essential drugs. Today, independent public awareness of a socio-dangerous disease through the media and the promotion of healthy lifestyles, the prevention of tuberculosis through the involvement of non-state public associations is extremely important. Tuberculosis in Ukraine results in the largest number of deaths from infectious pathology and is documented by all forms of tuberculosis. With each year, both adults and children have a steady increase in their disease rate. That is why the system of centralized procurement of anti-tuberculosis drugs should continue to function at the expense of the state budget and its further distribution in the areas of Ukraine. Another step in the fight against tuberculosis should be to improve the material base of antituberculosis facilities, the purchase of laboratory equipment, office equipment, and computer technology. Humans should be trained to implement modern methods of diagnosis of the disease. There is also a need for a single clear system of accounting and reporting that meets international standards and allows early diagnosis of treatment, monitoring and prevention of tuberculosis at European level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u95	Igor Shurma, please the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u96	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] Actually, it's the government's day to address government officials, but I don't know how to address you. In accordance with the Constitution, you have been retired, you are performing duties, and some are dismissed, and you are considered a worker. Then I will address you, you do not be offended, as the President of Zaporozhye addressed you. Ladies and gentlemen, how much are you going to cheat on people about some health reform and your good attitude toward medicine? Until the President of Ukraine apologizes for his statement on Maidan Independence for the fact that there is corruption in the doctor's office is all from the wicked. I know how, Mr. Ywasuk, to help you. Take the President, take two lovely women from the Union of Severinsen and Wolvend and get them into an anti-tuberculosis dispenser. And you're going to ask, how much does a doctor, a nurse and a nurse get -- these are the people who are looking for how to deal with tuberculosis. Then you'll see how close we are and how close we are to the European Union. Today, before talking about tuberculosis, we had to say what we were doing to protect the doctor, the one who communicates with TB every day at least in some way. This is the Order, this is the answer to President Yushchenk's national deputy. Since December 27, he has entrusted Echanurov with the task of including a Phtysiatr doctor, a child doctor, in List No. 2 production and work, occupations, positions with harmful and difficult working conditions. I've given the order to the Prime Minister, let him be, let him do nothing. Today, the minister of social policy is asking you to help implement it. On March 1st, they say it was the Cabinet of Ministers, we'll settle the question. If you have been unable to resolve this issue for three months, do not lie, or lie to people about what you are doing to reorganize your health. You don't have enough money? I'll tell you what else to do. There was a bill raised in the hall, sold “Crimsonstall”. We proposed a law where one billion dollars should be given to health care, tuberculosis, oncology, cardiology. Until that money is stolen, TB will see the gulkin nose. And today, until you change your attitude towards doctors, to nurses, you don't double their pay, the right conditions of work, once you're done in medical institutions, no one's going to go. Let's go if your women show you an example. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u97	Yuri Solomatin and here from the faction of Mikola Sadowa to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u98	Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the number one theory -- tuberculosis -- is a disease of the poor. Theorem number two, but that doesn't mean it can't be infected by the rich. But the rich one can be cured because he has money for medicine and rehabilitation, and the poor one is left with death. Since 1991, living conditions have not improved but have deteriorated unrelentingly. With the help of the presidents and their governments, food, unemployment continue to increase, and the purchase of meat has become an unfulfilled dream for many of our citizens. What kind of fight against the epidemic can we talk about? More than 60 percent of TB patients in Ukraine are socially vulnerable and under-secured. If the socio-economic conditions in Ukraine do not change, the rate for further capitalist restoration will continue, the disease may double and the mortality rate will double. The further situation depends directly on the development of the Ukrainian economy and the well-being of our people. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, recognizing the complexity of the situation in the country with tuberculosis, established a temporary special commission on this issue, which has repeatedly met and discussed at its meetings with interested executive, judicial, medical, and public authorities the way of overcoming the epidemic. People's deputies made their proposals to the President, the Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister from humanitarian issues, to the PNBO, but there were unfortunately no positive developments. Everything stops at the declaration of authority, wishes, and thanks for the cooperation. The sick, though, pay attention! TB in Ukraine is more than 10 times as high as AIDS. The public's attention to official medicine is focused solely on the latter – why? As a member of this committee, I would like to inform the National Deputies that the Commission has asked the Ukrainian Court of Auditors to verify the use of budgetary resources. We'll listen to this report. The main result of this test was that the Health Minochrona did not ensure the implementation of the National Tuberculosis Programme. There is an inadequate level of control by the Health Sector of the Office of the Ministers of the Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Schlapak, Pack, both for the implementation of the old national programme and for the operation and quality of the development of the General Target Programme for the Control of Tuberculosis for 2017-2011. A major problem is the staff matching of ILO workers, which in most cases do not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u99	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Well, he's asking for a very pigeon of peace, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u100	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We've just heard the deputy minister's report and the figures, the conclusions he's given to the deputies and all the radio speakers in Ukraine, are certainly terrible. It is particularly shocking that since the outbreak of tuberculosis in 1995, this form of disease has progressed rather than declines. It's progressing year after year. When I look at the tables that are given, especially, again, the problem of tuberculosis in children is worrying. When was it that there were children with tuberculosis at school? When was it that students get TB? It's been a long time, 50 or 70 years. Now, unfortunately, we have it. And we have it in progressive form. I’m worried, of course, about the Kirovograd region, where there has been a 15 - percent increase in tuberculosis in recent years. Which is 15 percent. If this is the case, some 5.6.7 years later, the entire population of the Kyrovogrod region may suffer from tuberculosis if no critical measures are taken. In the area, disease rates are higher than in the middle of Ukraine. Of course, it does. It does. It dominates and progresses disease in the city of Kirovograd, where local deputies have been engaged in counterfeiting as elections, and they have been used to it since 2002, and they continue to fake numbers, and especially the so-called popular ones, have been draining that city budget in their pockets, which is not that big. It is also worrying that the use of state budget funds, if you look at those figures, is a certain increase in absolute figures. And if we compare the rate of increase in the use of these costs and the rate of price growth, we certainly have not an increase in the cost of eliminating this disease, but rather a decrease in these costs. Because of the quality of life in the State, such a conclusion is reached and the conclusion is right. The result of the quality of the state's life is exactly the kind of disease we have to talk about. We need to make the right decision and be quite hard on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u101	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Block, Yuri Carmazin’s Electoral Block. Ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary questions, in which I have repeatedly drawn attention to the conclusions of the unsettling Phtysiatrician enthusiasts that the introduction of the Health Minochron of January 1, 2006, the DOC strategy is completely ineffective. A private DOC has been developed in the World Health Organization for the Lowly Developing Countries of Africa and Asia, where adequate health care and antituberculosis are not available. That's where she tried. The introduction of this strategy in Russia, Kazakhstan, the Baltic countries, in several African countries has become a negative experience for them. From 2000 to 2003, the disease rose by nearly 40 percent in Uganda, Bahrain by 180, Luxembourg by 23, Norway by 43 percent, Thailand by 62 percent, Kenya by 43 percent. You want that to happen in Ukraine!? I don't want that! In order for this not to happen, we need to do something completely, completely different. Today’s epidemiological situation and its prognosis threaten Ukraine’s national security. You have been reminded that since 1993, we have been in an epidemic situation. For us, it is more convenient for the State to define every year in the State in the State in the State, with the protected articles, all the costs of implementing state-wide tuberculosis control programmes and overcoming its epidemic, financing the protected articles of local TB programmes than becoming an out-of-state state. Let's see what's going on in places where there's actually a tuberculosis plant? We plant healthy people there and release them to TB patients. Where are they going? They come out here into society. There are 220,000 of our citizens. What are we doing? Do we, the State, especially print people who are sick? Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to say that. That the Crimea, the Clothing, literally, will be groaning from the destruction, dissipation and change of purpose of specialized physiatric treatment facilities. I've made hundreds of references to this. I believe that this situation is nothing more than a genocide in the presence in Ukraine of an epidemic of tuberculosis and a recurrence of the genocide of famine. So I propose to take urgent action, to make a political decision on priority funding for protected articles in state-wide anti-terrorist programmes. On behalf of the President himself, I ask you, Victor Andryovich, at least now hear what you are being told to cancel the order of the Minister of Justice of November 15, 2005, 610, as one that contradicts the national and national interests adopted in violation of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. We can still save the state we can still save its gene pool. Let's all go up to fight tuberculosis. I'm talking to the President, I'm talking to Minhvod: let's not be worse than Kenya.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u103	Question completed. Orzhachowski, please, a minute of vote and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u104	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. It's a shame I didn't make it because, as a representative of Hersonschi, I had a lot to say, because the mortality rate, the disease in this southern region is the largest in Ukraine. So I think the main thing that we should do today is the southern areas, I think, is probably to recognize it as an extraordinary epidemic. The other one. I want to say that the reasons that led to today's situation are a few. The first thing we did in our time was give up systemic farming for manufacturing and medical free services and social protection. What happened to us is also due to the refusal of collective farming and private property. Here we go, here we go, here we go. We'll return it for free.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u105	Let's sum up the Government Day. In fact, here the colleagues who spoke drew attention to the government’s attitude toward the Government’s Day. And perhaps in view of the situation, you can think of a story far away and hang the tablet “Kabmin Closed. All went to the polls.” True, we also sent them somewhere, so that they are connected. It was absolutely fair to point out that this is a disaster, a social disaster for our society, and that, unfortunately, in a civilized state, in the center of Europe, we have had such a disaster that in the last 14 years we have doubled the number of people who have been infected with this dangerous disease. I'm going to remind you of another number. In the 91st year, 100 grand. The mortality rate was 8.7 per 100,000 in 2005. The population was already 25.6. 8.7 – 25.6 Every year up to half a hundred new diseases. Every year up to half a hundred. It is not difficult to calculate how many years later we will have almost, excuse me, a major disease of this disease. And at that time, we can't think of anything better than how we shut down and destroy the facilities that we already had. Because in the last period, 61 TB dispensaries and 86 anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums, i.e., disease mortality is growing, disease is rising at a catastrophic rate, and we're using the only way to reduce what should be used to treat these facilities. So, I think we have every reason to accept, as the colleagues have called for, the firm determination to really commit the most quickly to the Cabinet of Ministers, which will form the newly elected Supreme Council, to eliminate this disgraceful phenomenon. Because Yuri Anatoliyovich was bringing in figures from other states here, in this case we really should be equal to not these states. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. I need you to sign up. On the adoption of the Regulation on Information and Measures to Overcome the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine. Registration number 9202, introduced by members of the Committee of Loboda, Šurm, Sietin, Bechtiev and others. Please vote. [[12:33:08]] For 213 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 34, Communists – 51, Block of Timoshenko – 30, People's Party – 17, Our Ukraine – 5, Socialists – 19, National Block – 22, Social Democratic Party – 3, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 6, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 8, Rebirth – 9, Reforms and Order – 1, non-fractional – 8. [[united]] Please, Anatoly Frost. There's their draft decision. Now we're going to figure it out. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u106	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, A restricted area, a faction of the Volodymyr Litvina Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to put to the vote Order 9202-1, introduced by me, Smyanenko and Chickanov. The fact is that this decree reflects, takes into account the analytical materials and proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, it also takes into account the proposals of the Court of Auditors, experts from the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, and public organizations. So I'm asking you very much, this is a more specific, clear decision, let's put it to a vote. And I ask all fellow MPs to support this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I will put this decision to the vote. But I would ask you not to contradict the rulings. I want to protect the previous ruling. There's also more than necessary, specifics, maybe. So let's not. I put it to a vote: the adoption of the draft decree number 9202-1, the authors: Frost, Smyanenko and others. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:35:16]] For-141 So we went through the ratings with you, as they say. I am voting on the adoption of the Decision on Information for the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the TB epidemic in Ukraine and on measures to overcome it, - registration number 9202, introduced by the members of the committee. Please vote. [[12:35:50]] For 243 Thank you. I'll take the order. The factions, please. 48 - “Regions”, 55 - Communists, Block Timoshenko – 26, People's Party – 27, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Socialists – 25, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 12, Ukrainian People's and People's Movement – Zero, Industrial and Business Party – 10, “Rebirth” – 11, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, “Afterfraction” – 6. [[united]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's call it a 13-hour break. At 1:00, we'll continue our meeting, Government Day for the next day's agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. Now we have another issue to consider in the government's agenda: the summary of the rest and the recovery of children in the summer of 2005 and the measures taken by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers to organize rest and heal children in the summer of 2006. Such regulations are proposed. For information -- 15 minutes, 30 minutes -- in writing and oral questions, 15 minutes -- committee, committee, and 20 minutes from factions. In order to close the matter before the announcement of the break today. I invite the minister to the floor in matters of family, youth, and sports, Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich. Get ready. Oh, there'll be questions, then from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. As is known as the priority policy in Ukraine, social and humanitarian development and the creation of conditions for comprehensive human development are defined. The fact that the concern for a new generation has become one of the most important activities of the state in Ukraine is evidenced by a number of recent decisions made by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers. The recovery and rest of children during the summer season is one way to really improve the health of children. In the summer of 2005, all those involved in the issue of childhood were central, and local executives carried out meaningful work to improve children’s health and recreation. Yet, the reality shows that fundamental changes in Ukraine’s overall recovery system are needed. Respectable national MPs, a special feature of the 2005 summer health campaign, were orientations for the quality of children’s health, and increased levels of health care. The duration of the health change was increased to 18 days compared to 2004, where 14 days were involved, increased monitoring of the healing system. The primary focus was on preserving children’s life and health, but in a year it was not possible to radically change the healing and rest systems in Ukraine, although there were some positive developments in this issue that had not been resolved for a long time. In particular, it is the return of the Youth Guard Children's Centre to state ownership and placement of it in the administration of Minsimiyoungsport, the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukrainian draft Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, which is currently under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the approval of a new order for the departure of organized groups of children abroad to health and rest. During the 2005 summer health campaign in Ukraine, more than 3 million children were enrolled in organized forms of recreation and recovery, accounting for almost 50% of the total number of school - age children. Out of the total number of children in children's health care facilities in the summer, 2 million 150,000 children were cured and rested, in sanatoriums, 596,000 children, 15,000 children were cured abroad. During the summer, according to state statistics, there were 18,000 and 400 health facilities, some 16,000 of which are day care camps, which, of course, cannot be called recovery, but rather an organization of meaningful leisure for the purpose of warning children's carelessness, although this kind of child recovery should have a place because it performs an important role in providing children with organized leisure, care and nutrition. At the same time, we understand the difference between the recovery of children in out - of - town health facilities and in preschool camps. The quality of the child’s health and rest system requires adequate funding. The total amount of funding, health care, and rest for children in the summer of 2005 from various levels was 286 million, 700,000 dollars, a hundred million more than in 2004. In addition, the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports provided funds for the rehabilitation of children who had suffered as a result of an emergency in the Melitopol region of Zaporozhye. The total amount of government funds for the recovery of children in the category of benefits was already increased by 43.6 percent in 2006. Health services for budget funds were primarily provided to children of socially vulnerable categories. Please note that most of the children have been rehabilitated on the basis of public education schools, in day-to-day institutions, but for today we cannot give up the organization of camps based on schools, out-of-school education and sanatoriums. This problem needs further detailed work. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! To sum up the achievements and calculations of the 2005 summer health campaign, I would like to stop not so much from the statistics on the recovery of children in the summer of 2005 but from the problems of organizing the rehabilitation of children in Ukraine and the solutions to these problems. During 2005, the government dealt substantively with this issue, and during this time we've worked out in the system of healing and rest, and we've come to realize that the way it exists now is hard to call it a system. Today, a new vision of the problem and a new approach to the healing and rest of children are needed, and there should be a child at the heart of this process. An analysis of citizens' appeals to the Ministry of Child Health has shown that most children need sanitation, not health care. In a year, children’s health has not changed for the better, and medical examinations of children show that about 95 percent of them have a health problem, so it is appropriate to combine recovery with treatment. And the network of children's sanatoriums has been somewhat reduced and the network of children's health facilities has been cut short. Compared to 1995, the number of working children's sanatoriums decreased by 26 institutions and children's health facilities from 1995 to 56. Because of the lack of funding, 41 children's health facilities were not working. In Kharkiv district of 19 children's health facilities, in Zaporzik and Kirovograd areas, 12th in Žitomirsk. Over the past three years, the restoration of 46 health facilities, which had not been used for long periods of time, has solved the problem only within individual regions, not within, in general, countries. With the aim of monitoring, preventing the recovery of children, creating proper conditions for the stay and detention of children in children’s health facilities, representatives of the Ministry of the Family, Youth, Sports, the Federation of Trades, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, together with relevant structural units at the sites, conducted monitoring of the child - health organization in all regions of Ukraine. Special attention was paid to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zaporozhye, Lviv, Chernivecki, Herson, Odessa. The results of the tests were reviewed at regular operational meetings, which led the local authorities’ deputy heads and took immediate action to remedy the shortcomings. In particular, these tests showed the shortcomings found during the tests. In particular, some health - care providers did not pay enough attention to the safety and health of children. They weren't fully staffed with qualified personnel, there were downsizings, there were downsizings in institutions, there was low-level education. This is the situation in the Sakrapolis sanatoriums of Saka and in the Ivazovsky Children's Health Institute, the Trans-Prov railway, Lukomora, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zelena dibrova, the Poltava region. With the aim of warning the exploitation of unprepared health care facilities by the State Epidemiological Service, 615 orders have been made to suspend the exploitation of children’s health facilities temporarily, removed from the work of 1,454 persons, and 8 unprepared children’s health facilities have been found. Inadequate health standards of drinking water have slowed down the work in 94 children’s health facilities. As a result of the 1225 inspections, appropriate decisions were made regarding the punishments of the leaders, particularly in the Zakarpatsky, Chernivite, Zitomirski, Vinnitsky, Ternopil, and Mikolai oblasts. In this situation, first of all, we drew attention to the inadequacy of preparing for the 2005 health campaign of executive authorities in places. Workers of the U.S. State standard were tested for food in children’s health facilities, and a variety of violations were detected in 70 percent of the tested establishments. The main ones were food shortages, weight loss, food shortages, and low quality products. In the summer of 2005, we managed to avoid massive intestinal infections, although isolated cases were recorded, particularly in the “Ivazovian” city of Feodosia, in the Luhansk Region Children's Health Institute, in the “Jubilee” sanatorium of the city of Eupatoria. Dear National Deputies! After examining the health and recreation of children in the summer of 2005, I also want to focus on the most important issues of the future. The Ministry, along with the Institute for Family Problems and Youth, has developed a new concept for the recovery and rest of children, young people, and families with children. Based on this concept, new approaches to health care, creating conditions for the recovery and rest of children, young people, and different categories of families. The creation of new types of facilities for healing and recreation and the development of healthy lifestyles through the development of positive personal qualities. The concept will be the basis for the development of a new comprehensive national program for the recovery and recreation of children, young people, and families with children in Ukraine. Problems in the area of health and rest must be addressed in terms of the systemic approach to unity of purpose, content, and forms of healing. Let's try it. The figure is about 3 million. children to see a specific child. I note that at the expense of the state, first of all, the children of the underprivileged categories were cured. Sadly, though, as in all previous years, none of the categories have been healed 100%. Understanding the importance of the development of family forms and the support of multi-child families today, we define how the issue of healing in the summer of 2006 is a priority for such categories so that they can heal together with their parents. In this regard, new types of health care facilities are needed, such as family recreation, children with disabilities, and so forth. The Ministry has proposed a system for the calculation of children in categories of benefits who are entitled to health and rest in the first order. The creation of a single electronic information system for children of orphans, children deprived of parental care, will also be used to provide their children with health care. The existence of such a base will allow for the formation of a government order for the health and recreation of children, resulting from the real possibilities of a health base. For children's health facilities. Children's health and recreation are being carried out on the basis of children's health facilities, whose networks have been established since Soviet times, have undergone a number of socio-economic transformations and need to be reformed and brought into line with current conditions and real needs. In addition, there is a need to improve the human health and rest system, the social protection of health workers, and the regulation of their work. In the new concept of child recovery and recreation, young people and families with children are one of the main issues. In Ukraine today, there are 1010 fixed children’s health facilities, of which 182 have not been operational for a long time. Out of the number of employees in the state-owned sector – 134, municipal – 177, 475 private institutions, 15 – property of other states. In fact, almost 60 percent are privately owned establishments. With the aim of maintaining a network of children’s health facilities as early as 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the list of state-owned children’s institutions and banned them from retraining. But in practice, we see an increase in the rate of private health care. Is that good or bad? When it comes to the quality and variety of health services, the state of the material and technical base of the facility, these indicators are much higher in private institutions. In view of the fact that there is no long-term construction of health facilities for children, it is vital to preserve the functioning and rehabilitation of long-term children’s health - care facilities. The ability of the IDC “Artec” to ensure the recovery of Ukrainian children is not fully used today. Today, almost 70 percent of children are cured by Artek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u111	Much needs to be done today to ensure the effective work of the Youth Guard Children's Centre, which almost a few weeks ago was just transferred to the administration of Minimi, youth, sport. The available health base of out-of-town and sanatorium facilities, with full capacity for summer beds, can provide only 30 percent of school-age children. And here we have to put a dot on the possibility of an annual increase of ten percent of the number of healthy children as recorded in the government programme by 2008. Even though children of socially vulnerable categories can recover from public spending once a year, the existing base of existing institutions is unable to meet the needs of children today. For a long time, government funds were allocated exclusively to the purchase of travel and there was absolutely no capital investment in the development of a network of children's health facilities and the reproduction of a material and technical base. And to start with, I'm sure, that's the question. As for the healing process. As we look back on the quality of the child’s health and rest, it should be noted that studies by modern educators have shown that children are not fully satisfied with the content and rest. Regarding the health facilities themselves, I want to say that we need to take a full look at the approaches to their activities according to modern conditions. This raises the question of reviewing the functions and concepts of children’s institutions, modernizing the health education process. One of the State’s health standards, the development of a meaningful component of the healing process, taking into account the demands of today’s government and the Academy of Pediatrics, should be a meaningful competence. With regard to the legal and regulatory provision of health and rest. The creation of a modern national health and rest system requires regulatory regulation in this area. The creation of an appropriate service market, financial support for the process, and the cooperation of all branches of government and the public on this issue. Today, the government is working together with local authorities, trade unions, public organizations, and health - care providers to address these and many issues. The first step towards the development of a system of health and rest is the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Rest of Children, which I recall, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers and sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. The Ukrainian law will allow for a clear identification of the device, a distinction between the concept of child health and rest, a rehabilitation and rest facility, a fixed length of 21 days, and not 18 days, and we plan to increase the change and the period of recovery to 21 days in the following year. Identify basic principles of public policy in the area of health. To regulate working relationships in the healing system. Provide State guarantees for the preservation of state and municipal health facilities for children. I hope and ask the Supreme Council to consider this law, the bill at this session of the Ukrainian Parliament. In conclusion, I want to thank the people's deputies for their work throughout the healing process. Special thanks to the activities of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Physical Culture, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism for its active position on recovery and in particular on the return to state ownership of the Youth Guard National Centre, and to stress once again that a year ago my work as minister began at this rostrum. And it's about healing, and as promised, we've learned very seriously about the system that exists in recovery. And the suggestions I made in my speech, I'm sure they will also be made by national MPs, MPs, and the Supreme Council's draft decrees will enable us to make a truly quality healing system in Ukraine, not a certain propagation, as it has been in Ukraine for the past 14 years. Thank you for your attention. And I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u112	Yes, thank you. Let's ask questions, sign up. But we're going to reduce them to 20 minutes. Please log in. And you start answering in writing if you have one. 20 minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u113	The Ukrainian Communist MP's faction raises questions about the trend in the reduction of fixed health facilities, as well as about what steps the government is planning to take to address this situation and to support enterprises – owners of stationary children's health facilities, taking into account the need to maintain them properly during the inter-seasonal period. I'll point out again, I talked about this in a statement that the decline in the number of children's health facilities that worked in the summer of 2004 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the decline in day-to-day establishments, but the number of healthy children did not decrease. In addition, I remind you that there is an appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which works, “To preserve the network of children's health facilities and the impossibility of retraining them”. I'll remind you again that there are 1010 fixed children's institutions in Ukraine today, of which 182 do not work, but this has been happening for a long time. In the last three years, once again, 46 establishments have been restored to their jobs. As for children's health facilities that are on the balance sheet of enterprises, I'm sure they need State support, but most of the owners are on time funding children's health facilities on a residual basis, using them to pay off their tax debts and sell them in the event of bankruptcy and businesses. To date, only profitable businesses can afford to support child health facilities. Of course, economic laws are primarily in place here, but the proposals made in the Ukrainian Law, which the government is proposing, are reflected in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u114	Please. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I think, and you understand it yourself, you're a little tricky and hypocritical when you say that in a year you can't fundamentally change the state of the child's recovery. You've changed it, but you've made it worse. So your attitude toward the unprofessional, adventurous involvement of orange governments in the work of social insurance funds has actually started to break down the child recovery system. How do you react to the underfunded rehabilitation of children in Zaporizki, Donetsky, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk oblasts, the most environmentally friendly, and especially the underfunded rehabilitation of children in the agricultural and industrial complex? First question about the funds. The other one. Still, how do you explain that about 60 children's health facilities, which worked successfully in 2004 under Yanukovic's government, were closed in 2005? And the third question over the course of what you had in writing. So whether or not the government supports the granting of tax benefits to companies and institutions that invest in good faith.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u116	Thank you for your questions. I understand that this consideration of the issue is still taking place in the electoral campaign process, but I'll say so. During this year, there has been no deterioration in the child’s health. The number of healthy children is slightly higher than in 2004. In addition, the main emphasis on recovery was on testing the quality of health care. So I'm not going to tell you how many health facilities have been stopped, how many administrative connections have been imposed from the heads of the region and the appropriate facilities for the inadequacy of preparation for the healing season. I'm going to remind you once again that we've been preparing for the healing season since, in fact, the middle of the February month. So all the decisions, virtually all the decisions we started to make, were made by the past government and by the past president. So we couldn't fundamentally change anything over a year from the point of view of preparation for the healing season, because we went straight to the execution and preparation of the technical healing process. What about the funds? Because I know, in this case of the fund, I know that there were constant checks on the efficiency of using the fund. We had several meetings with the fund about their activities on child recovery, because, in fact, those tests, they stopped and did not give full work to the Fund. They were held from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u117	Yuri Alexiyovich, do not engage in discussion. You answered the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u118	I understand. Moreover, they were different.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u119	Right. Please, in writing, give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u120	The conclusions on their efficiency of using these funds, but, you know, these funds are not within our Ministry's jurisdiction, and it's hard for me to be responsible for their activities today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u121	Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u122	Deputies' faction "Rebirth": how accessible is rest in the "Artec" for orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as for children in the category? How many children have recovered from Artec? Once again, I would like to remind you that Artek is in the State Department of Affairs. We stressed and made priorities, were appropriate recommendations of the Supreme Council in terms of improving the health of children, primarily Ukrainian children in Artec. In 2005, nearly 20,000 were in Artek. Children, of whom more than 10,000. It's the children of the extended categories. For one thing, trips to Artek were given to socially vulnerable groups of children. These are orphans, children deprived of parental care, foster parents, and winners of various competitions, where gifted and talented children won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u123	Please, Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u124	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honorable Yuri Alexiyovich, statistics show that nearly 14,000 people are in danger of losing their lives. orphans are taught in vocational and technical institutions of education and higher education. During the summer season, they stay in dormitories. The hotels are being renovated. And the teachers go on vacation. This category of children remains in itself. The question is, do you not think it is appropriate that there be earmarked funds in the Budget, which directly targeted schools for the recovery of this category of children, specifically, and 14,000 of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u125	I thank you for asking. There's an appropriate budget that goes through subsidies through the Ministry of Education and Science for the recovery of children who are studying in educational institutions, and in relation to the 14,000 orphans who are studying in PTU, I'm not sure that they all had the opportunity to recover during the summer season. But once again, the problem of the healing system that existed did not allow for 100 percent recovery of any of the categories. Moreover, the existing base of health and health care facilities allows only 30 percent of school-age children, in this case vocational schools, to be cured during the summer period. All others are properly healed either in preschool camps or at the expense of their parents. This is really a problem that we are underscoring. Only 30 percent. Even when more money is made available for the recovery of children for the purchase of travel, there is nowhere to cure them. That's why we need to talk seriously today about the increase in capital investments, the expansion of the network of sanatorium and health facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u126	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u127	The Committee on Education and Science. “At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Federation of Trades in the summer of 2005, out-of-town health care establishments had problems with tax administrations regarding land tax payments, although all tax benefits were provided by legislation for these health facilities. Is the State Tax Administration justified?” Indeed, Ukraine’s State Budget, Ukraine’s 2005 Law, provided tax benefits for children’s health care facilities for land taxes. And the law states that land tax is not taxed on the land of children's sanatoriums, gymnasiums, sports and health facilities. Therefore, the issue of the State Tax Administration’s actions should be dealt with by the relevant authorities in each particular case. We are willing to provide such assistance if there are specific facts regarding the wrong actions of the State Tax Administration in relation to the child - care facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u128	Suskevich, please. Oh, no? Lip. Yes, there is an Ustenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u129	Pass the word to Mr. Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u130	Hennadia Widow's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u131	Thank you very much. Yuri Alexiyovich, well, there's no doubt that both the Ministry and the government have done a very big job. And the main thing is that there was really a systemic approach. I am also glad that you have worked actively with the head of the Committee on Sports, young people, and so forth. But you partly answered my question, "The Young Guard." I want to use and thank these brave people for fighting against Ukrainian bureaucracy, whichever color it is, for bringing this very important holiday home back to the nation's bosom. And the last. How do you provide ideologically for children who are being treated for summer rest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u132	Thank you for asking, Gennady Josephovich. I'm going to brief you on the actions that are being done today with the Youth Guard Children's Center. A few weeks ago, a decision was made to return him to government property, to the Department of the Family, Youth, and Sports. An appropriate commission has now been set up to conduct the inventory, and the appropriate group is working to protect the Young Guard's property rights in different courts. In addition, some funds are planned today in that budget, which is in the Ministry of the Family, Youth and Sports, so that this year the Youth Guard can fully start working, and also some funds have been set up to repair, restore the material and technical base of this facility. I hope that this will be further reflected in the 2007 budget, because it really needs to be taken seriously. As for the healing system, I was actually talking about the need to create such a quality complex, a sense of recovery, the very purpose of recovery. Unfortunately, there was a point that was made in Soviet times, through the pioneer organization, and it was clear what was going on. Today, the analysis we conducted in all the children's health facilities shows that there are only a few mandatory things -- they got into the water, we got out of the water, we danced in the evening, and we had breakfast, we had dinner, we had dinner now on schedule. Everything else, in fact, needs to be seriously worked out. So today, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, with the Ministry of Culture, we plan for the next recovery period of the season, to get out, indeed, with the recommendation, with the quality program of raising and curing children during the summer period. Unfortunately, it was missing, though declared, and there were certain normative plans. And to get the most out of it, especially students who have the right courses at universities, and for which this will be a very good practice, on the other hand. That's what we have in common today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u133	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u134	It's a written question. Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Why is the Government in a third year in a row not making recommendations to the Supreme Council on the development and approval of State social standards for the recovery and rest of children? Well, first of all, I would like to emphasize once again that today's appropriate bill on the rest and recovery of children. On the other hand, public social norms, they are, and they include, first of all, the material and technical provisions of children's health and rest facilities, facilities for education and leisure organizations, standards for the placement of children for health and rest in the home and in the children's facilities, standards for providing children with full nutrition, cost of recovery according to physical needs and energy costs. These normative documents have been developed and approved. But I'm sure they still need some serious work. The Ministry is working today on indicators of the quality of health and rest services in children's health facilities and the meaningful component of the healing process that I spoke about in the previous reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u135	Please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u136	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “The People’s Block of Lithuania”. Mr. Reporter, no thanks. I want to do this for you for the wonderful photographs that have been meaningfully, very well accompanied by your report, revived it and reminded me of the phrase of the famous “Thank you to the family for our happy childhood.” But the question I have is serious, and it is related to the fact that a number of media outlets have provided enough disturbing information about the adoption on 21 January of a secret decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which dealt with the transfer of the Salavtic Children's Sanatorium to the Constitutional Court. No correction was made by any agency, agency, or other agency, including the refusal to comment on these media. Do you have appropriate information? Are you now willing to make a formal complaint and say that there was no such decision? If it was, explain what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u137	I don't know anything about an appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u138	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u139	Is it government? Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use. Does the government plan to take measures in the current year to increase the number and services of joint health care, recreation, and parental rest? On this issue, I would like to thank you for the questions and, given the opportunity, to ask the committee that is proposing a draft decision, which, in particular, refers to the need to approve public programs for the recovery and rest of children and, if possible, to make such technical changes as to make it sound like it is the recovery and rest of children, young people and families with children, so that we can assume from the very beginning that it is an important priority to raise children with parents. So that we can produce this from the very beginning, even more so, the concept that is being developed by the government today, and will be proposed to both the Supreme Council and the relevant committee will work, it just provides for an additional emphasis on the recovery of families, family health, where children and parents are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u140	Please don't take notes, he won't answer any more. That's the first one. Second of all, that's not how it's done. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u141	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction. Yuri Alexiyovich, I'd like to hear from you how you're working with the State Property Fund on the return of that property to the state: the children's camps, the health centers that were seized at the time. Do you have any common program of how many lawsuits there are in the courts and how this issue is resolved precisely through a judicial branch of power to restore to the state those camps, well, which are still undecided to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. Obviously this has been defined by one of the priorities since the beginning of the government and the corresponding programme and plan of action has been approved, as has been the monitoring, where and which camps have been illegally lost to Ukrainian children, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, which also has the entire list of institutions and works very actively in this direction. But so far we have the first successful example of this activity, that of the Youth Guardy Children's Centre, about others, it's all going on in quite a difficult fight, especially in the courts. And let's say, even for the same "Youth Guard" the question in court is not yet definitively defined. So in this case, we're counting on the fact that the treatment in the courts is going to be more careful. Unfortunately, you know that the State often has less power to argue with the court than private owners who have slept in a child’s health care facility. But that's the priority, and we understand that that figure, when we can only heal 30 percent, and 182 today, children's health facilities don't work to the full, of course, can't satisfy us. And the main thing is that this year has not been stolen or changed its form of ownership and direction for the recovery of children is no health institution compared to other years, as it was very active, especially in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u143	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich, please sit down. And the state has less effect on the courts than others, for who cares and influences them, unfortunately. Please, head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Katerina Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Today’s Assembly has initiated a very important consideration each year on the days of the government on the eve of the healing season of the organization of children’s health and recreation. In summary, appropriate decisions were taken, and Kabmin’s recommendations to local executives, local authorities, were developed. And thanks to our constant control, the State Programme for Resting and Health of Children has been approved by 2008. More than that, the truth is at the end of the call, the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been carried out and the draft Law on Child Health has been drafted, which has already been considered by the Committee. Four years later, thanks to the committee, the support of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the public, was able to raise a dead end to the question of the future child health centre “Youth Guardia”. To date, he has finally been transferred to the branch office of the Youth Ministry. At the same time, the issue of granting status to the National Children's Centre, Artek, is not being resolved. Our repeated appeals, as well as the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the government, simply ignore. This is a mess when the unique children's center “Artek” is in the knowledge of the Dusi, which compared a unique establishment in the world to a farm unit. Today, as every year, regrettably, despite the less decent averages that are not reported in the government report, we will have to find out that there are serious deficiencies, calculations in the organization of child health. Unwittingly, the question arises: Is it only because of the inability to organize such an important work for the State? At times, it seems to me that high - class workers are consciously unwilling to order the issue of recovery. Many questions are raised by the organizers of child health and rest. It's about the tender procedure because of the purchase of travel tickets. This is especially true of the terms of their conduct, including the pursuit of overspent child travel, the subjective approach of local leaders to determining the winners of the tender race. By the way, some of the children's health facilities, without any explanation, are simply not allowed by local authorities to participate in tenders. The Government and the procurator’s offices are not responding to the demands of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preservation of a network of children’s health facilities. It was in this room that Ukrainian national deputies stressed the inadmissibility of their closure or change of profile. Sadly, however, the situation has not yet been rectified. It is clear that when the results of the audit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Court of Auditors were introduced, how the budget is used for these purposes, which in practice means their distribution and use. Thus, in 2005, compared with 2004, the total number of children’s health facilities was reduced by more than a thousand during the summer. And the total number of healthy children they had decreased by 33,000. The available material base outside the city's children's health and sanatorium facilities allows only 60 percent of children between 7 and 16 years of age to be cured during the summer period, this is indeed a disaster. Because we have practice when we practically cured all children during the summer. On the other hand, it is necessary to remind the government why there is a lack of proper control of public authorities over the efficient use of the budget allocated to the recreation and rehabilitation of children? I would like to emphasize that to organize recreation and the healing of children by making direct agreements with health institutions, including on a competitive basis, giving priority to local institutions, and by giving priority to medical, environmental and health indicators to the rehabilitation and sanatorium planning of children's contingents in need of necessary health care and sanitation. This is a requirement for a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was adopted in 1997, and unfortunately is not being implemented satisfactorily. Let me just give you an example. When Minsimiyoungsport and subordinated minisvets conducted travel through intermediaries at higher prices, including to public and municipal sanitation facilities, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine itself, as shown by the findings of the Court of Auditors, did not in time approve the use of public budget funds. For Minosvita, it was only June 13th, for Minagropolitics -- only in July, when there's a health campaign in the fire. It is simply surprising that government officials have not been professional in their basic tasks as defined by the State's program of recreation and child recovery, which is also approved in the Cabinet of Ministers in 2003. So far, there are no established government standards and social standards for providing children with organized forms of rest and recovery. And we, from the day of government to the day of government, keep stressing that. That's why we have one ministry buying travel to a country health care facility for 35 bucks a day, and the state education centre of the Ministry of Education and Science got rid of 200 bracelets a day, but that's true, abroad, in Hungary. [[$40 a day for a child]] Comments here are said to be unnecessary. Involvement continues in the rehabilitation of children in private institutions who have not been licensed for out - of - school services. How can children’s lives and health be entrusted to such businesses, such as those who do not have a license? As early as 2003, a government order for the recreation and rehabilitation of children of the benefit categories of the population would have been issued. And we know how many orphans, half orphans, disabled people. On the calendar of 2006 and the visa, as it were called, is still there. This is how Parliament’s decisions are implemented. Principle: I want to do it, and I want to do it. No database on the network of children's health facilities was created. At present, the government has only built such a database on state and municipal health facilities. Still others, considering that nearly 60 percent of health - care facilities are located in private homes. Papers and reports each year show an increase in the number of children undergoing recovery. But I have a question that we're trying to mislead. After all, statistics tell us something else. In 2004-2005, nearly 700 sanatoriums were closed — more than 53,000. From this list of over 130 facilities, it's like there was a capital repair, and 330 didn't work because of the lack of operating costs. You know, these are really scary numbers and we need to fix this situation. And in the reports, the figure is good, first of all, because of the increase in day - to - day camps in schools. But where is the healing? We know that the kids came to school this morning, played some chicken games, had lunch so modestly. But what kind of healing might this be? Taking into account the bitter experience of previous years, this year they gave up the centralization of children’s finances, recreation, and recovery. We hope that their recovery to direct and direct payments to the recipient will be significantly reduced. And as for the effectiveness of controlling their use, we really have doubts. I'll just give you one example. The Kyiv Authority of Science and Education last year purchased 28 tours to the “Ramble” sanatorium, the Ternopil region, for boarding school children, for orphans, I emphasize, for orphans and children deprived of parental care, half the orphans are tubinated. At the time, the Ministry of Education and Science in Alsta's anti-tuberculosis sanatorium purchased directions for the rehabilitation of children's sports schools who did not have medical evidence for treatment in this institution. How is this to be judged? What, then, is the state’s responsibility? Where the conscience is, after all, in this respect, to the most vulnerable group of our population towards orphans. And I wish that in no way would these stories be repeated, that if we were to send money to the appropriate area, the children in the Chernobyl area would be cured in the Chernobyl area. And that could happen. The organizers of children's health and rest rely on the adoption of the relevant law, which the committee has now reviewed and submitted for consideration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, Yuri Alexiyovich, we won't be able to see it, and you know it. But life does not end, and it continues, and we need to consider it. There are a lot of questions that have arisen, including the fact that we don't speak at all about the sightings, the basis for recreation, the health care, there's no talk of round-the-clock, round-the-year, the periphery, where we can heal the children. But the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it and accept it in the first reading, and there will be serious work ahead of it to improve the bill, and its content should be in line with that concept that was discussed by Yuri Alexiyovich, who was approved at the proper time by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Unfortunately, she's not able to handle a little bit of the bill. So, I think we'll all work together. I am convinced that if the Supreme Council does not deal with this law, it will remain, indeed, vulnerable. And that's why we need all of us here, in this room, to make a decision and to adopt a basic law on the recovery of our children. It is clear that all I have been able to say, as well as what the Ukrainian national MPs will say in their speeches, is far from a complete list of the problems that need to be resolved with regard to the organization of child health. Regrettably, in connection with the election to the Supreme Council, the formation of its future structures, the introduction of some changes to the budget for this year to increase the funding and implementation of many facilities related to child health and rest. Therefore, the members of our committee are convinced that to organize this work this year and beyond at the right level, it is time to move away from campaigning for the recovery of children and to put in place a system of such work. For this reason, the next call would be to consider not only the bill on child recovery, but also to entrust the government with the development and implementation of a national programme on child health and rest, which will last for a year. It just has to be done for all of us. I also think that we should all look together at the decisions we make. Many of them are simply ignored because of the misunderstanding of a particular problem. Responsibility must first and foremost be at the highest level of government, both executive and legislative. So I propose to support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the issue that we are considering today. But of course, if there are any suggestions, we are ready to make that decision on the fourth. But what needs to be taken this week is that I think no one has doubts because life goes on and children need just attention and concrete action by both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u145	Thank you. Life goes, and children are born, and they need to be healed. That's the right thesis. There are two suggestions on how we can move forward. One is very concise and understood, to vote now on the decision to end it. But I understand you don't want to get into it. That's why I'm a friend. Let's talk for thirty minutes about this issue and end it by making a decision. No objections? Representatives from the faction, please, Nadrag, prepare for the Polit. 30 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u146	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, we are listening today to an issue that is traditional. However, it shows that, unfortunately, much more frequent summer childhood health comes as suddenly as winter in our country. Why? Because it turns out that in all the conversations and all the very important and necessary things that are being done on this subject, and what has happened today from this rostrum, only the question arises. In particular, I had a question. Why do we bring child - care only to the so - called work of children’s camps or have previously been called pioneer camps? And why are we not discussing the subject of sanatorium and torture for our children, because this is a round-the-clock theme? And I don't think it's a big secret for anyone that adolescents are one of the weakest periods of human life in our country. Weaknesses, because both the post-Montenegro consequences and the environmental and the level of consumption of our citizens do not allow them to develop and physically strengthen fully for our children. What are some questions on this subject? I can give you an example. In Ukraine, there is the only adolescent sanatorium “Taurika”, the city of Evpatoria, which specializes in the treatment of respiratory organs, the propulsion system, the problems of child gynecology and which, in all conversations, is unique, in all conversations that it is the only one, it stands on the verge of closure. Why? Because it turns out that our beloved country of Ukraine, this sanatorium for the recovery of children, is only needed in the summer. During the rest of the year, which is 9 months out of 12 months, it actually exists only through commercial sales of travel and how often so or to citizens of Kazakhstan or Russia. Why? Because it is found that the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund and the Chernobyl Foundation cannot finance the acquisition of travel for our children who need this treatment. I stress that these are children 12 to 18 years of age, these are children who have problems with their respiratory system, the propulsion system, child gynaecology and, accordingly, require special and very good treatment. Why? Because it turns out that last year, it turns out, there was no money fund, and they even canceled a lot of trips because it was said that it was urgent to close the issue of single payments for the birth of a child. I mean, we've chosen from some, we've given to others. But the question is who was chosen. I emphasize once again. We've taken it from the adolescents. Ask the military commissioners, ask the medical commissions how many perfectly healthy adolescents there are today and live in our country. And the vast majority of doctors will tell you that there are virtually no doctors. So when we talk about what we need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u147	We didn't. Andrew Polit, Communist faction. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u148	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear People's Deputies, members of the Government! Regrettably, I have to admit that the outcome of the campaign for the recovery and rest of children in the summer of 2005 leaves much to be desired. As in previous years, many health institutions have also begun to receive children. Many camps were suspended by the sanitation service, compliance with fire safety standards was unsatisfactory, children's camps were not staffed and, as a result, low-level education was provided. In many of these institutions, child nutrition standards have been severely violated. According to Kabmina, there were over 18,000 health facilities in the summer of 2005, but 87 per cent of them are school camps. Rest in such facilities is not called asphalt. We all realize that for a variety of reasons, there can be no recovery or at least no rest here. Why should we feed on such excellent statistics, shout at the increase in the number of children cured in the summer of 2005, if this does not reduce the percentage of the disease among schoolchildren? A year ago, we had raised that question, but Kabmin did not respond. I hope that this will be taken into account in the preparations for the 2006 recovery campaign. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as a rule, most children are better off in the areas where they live. Everyone knows that in many regions of Ukraine, the environmental situation is not conducive to the recovery of children. If the child lives, for example, in my hometown of Kirovograd, where is the terrible environment, what kind of healing or rest may this be? And, of course, they must go to environmentally friendly regions. The question of the organization of educational work in health institutions is equally acute. The absence of a systematic approach to this problem, along with the lack of qualified personnel, has led to a practical absence of an educational process that is the educational component of summer recovery. In many cases, such results have been the result of Kabmin's reluctance to involve public organizations in the summer recovery and rest process. To date, more than a hundred youth organizations in Ukraine could make a significant contribution to the organization of child health. They are ready and willing to work and have the necessary human resources. In addition, representatives of public organizations should be included in the commissions to inspect the work of children's health institutions. As a result, I would like to recommend to Kabina, in preparation for the 2006 summer health campaign, the following approaches: to increase the number of children affected by organized forms of rehabilitation, not through school camps, but through the introduction of health facilities that do not work for any reason. The rehabilitation of environmentally disadvantaged children should be conducted in areas with favourable environmental conditions. Cooperate with various youth organizations for the purpose of doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u149	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Prepare Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u150	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners! An hour ago, we discussed the condition of tuberculosis. The question of child recovery is a logical continuation of the previous one. Where else will the child gain strength, health? In the overcrowded classrooms? No, of course not. 15 years ago, we had a comprehensive health system that covered up to 90 percent of preschool and school - age children. Students were able to recover in camps of various types of sanatoriums, including overseas. What do we have now? The base has decreased more than three times. The network of pioneer camps, labor camps, and recreation has been reduced to zero. The city’s budgets forgot the children. And there's nothing to say about rural councils. Everyone knows that the basics of recovery are nutrition, health programs, lifestyles, air, forest, water, and unconditional mobility. But even if you look at the toilet, there's over 150 of these. The special rooms are closed to children, so let's say they need special care. You often hear a health lie, it's about school health courses where kids in May-Red don't get better, they're just under the supervision of teachers. Can you get better on the asphalt? It's just a lie to the kids, and it's just for the sake of numbers. Among other things, lying and counterfeiting have penetrated the wall of the Supreme Council, where individuals submit false letters and publish them in the press for real. In particular, such examples can be cited. In the city of Kirovograd, where there is a group in the city that has become entrenched from the past and continues to tear apart and steal everything that can and cannot be done. Here are some examples. It's a city station for young people. Young technicians, excuse me, are placed in a typical kindergarten. And there the local oligarchs wanted to take away the tech station and just throw the kids out on the street. That's it. No, they're the same. The same! The question arose about the closure of medical facilities and the reduction of medical personnel in educational institutions, and it was once again the same authority. Chigrin, Volkanov, Hilchenko, Andrew and so on. That's why it's over. The Socialist faction suggests that the health base, labor camps and recreation facilities, pioneer camps, children’s sanatoriums, and that the government turn to the State Property Fund for the purpose of returning the child’s health base. Fifteen years were taken from children, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u151	Alexander Stoyan, “Regions of Ukraine”. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u152	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2005, when the orange government came to power, the child’s recovery declined dramatically. For the first time, a large number of children did not receive New Year’s gifts, and for the first time, free travel was cancelled for those in need of rehabilitation after transfer. Ten percent of the travels for workers have been cancelled. Why did this happen? Has there been a reduction in the social security fund’s budget for the payments? On the contrary, this budget increased in 2005. This was due to the gross involvement of senior orange officials in the use of the funds of this self - control fund. In 2005, the government forced one billion, 400 million, to pay 890,000 dollars to provide one - time assistance at the birth of a child. So 32 percent of the insurance budget was spent on one-off assistance. No one denies that it is necessary to help mothers, but not just the insurance companies. And the distribution of these funds should be the management of the fund that is formed on. the outside base. So there's actually no cost of curing children, so there's no healthy children of teachers, doctors, culture workers, children from the village. It was no accident that our Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided: for its rude interference with the self-governance fund to ask the question of the discharge of Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko's executive duties. What is more, such actions need to be criminalized. But it doesn't have to be done, it's got 11 days left for this government, let it live. What are some of the suggestions we make to address the issues of child recovery? First sentence: to amend the Ukrainian Social Insurance Act by removing these funds from administration by representatives of the authorities. Secondly, during April/April, to form and approve a government order for the recovery of children from socially vulnerable categories of the population. Third: State aid for the transport of children to rest and health by rail or car. Next. The Supreme Council needs to consider urgently the draft Law on Child Health and Recreation introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The following is necessary: Article 5 of the Added Tax Act should be amended to exempt children from tax on child care supplies. Such a project for the release of these travels was introduced by our colleague, a member of the faction of the “Regions” - Vasil Harrah. In general, we believe that the issue of child recovery should be a state program and a state policy, not just that when summer begins and we begin to think about the healing of children. We consider the government's work in this direction, this year to be unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u153	Mikola Porowski, I can't see. Larissa, “Our Ukraine” faction, prepare Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u154	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenko faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished voters, children, the future of Ukraine, their further development, healthy growth, proper life depends on their level of recovery and rest. Children of socially vulnerable categories need special treatment: orphans deprived of parental care, children from many families, low-income families, children with disabilities. We all face a number of important tasks that must be accomplished by each of us. We have to eliminate cases of children's health facilities being shut down because of lack of funding. Ensure that such facilities are used only by destination. We need to put in place programs that meet European standards and aim to increase knowledge, discover and develop talents, skills, skills for each child, namely through competitions, Olympics, competitions, creative evenings, and ensure the proper physical development of children. The next step should be to provide materially and technically for children's health facilities, to create the right conditions for their children's safety and well-being. This includes fire protection, compliance with sanitary standards, health care, and high - level education. Today, the organization of proper preparation for the 2006 summer health campaign should be a joint task for all executive authorities and local self - government and should be based on a coherent relationship and cooperation. After all, the government budget for 2006 has been increased by 10 percent in the summer health campaign compared to last year. They are the basis for the success of our shared core task of raising a small Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u155	Thank you. Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u156	Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” block, Mother Vitaly. Yuri Alexiyovich, thank you for today's report. I want to say that this report has shown that the Ministry cares about children. And no matter what is done here today, and as someone does not say here for political purposes, it is so bad to rest. What I'm saying is that this year's result is the destruction of tens of years of everything that's been done for children. Today's government is looking for a way out of this. I can give you an example like this. This is where the deputies from this area sit. I happened to be in a place like Harley. It is hardly known that hundreds of thousands of children were resting there. The most favorable conditions for recreation. During those years, ten years ago, children rested for four months with families. As far as medical rest is possible, this is not the same in the entire world of the Union, perhaps only in Ukraine. Everything's been destroyed today. The pioneer camp, where 3,000 people were resting, today one sect filmed it, which is used by 10 or 15 people. And I also tried to get in there, and it's a good thing there was an MP's license, because they're not running into this territory. Only a ruler with a ruler as a pioneer wife is a mile (1 km) away. You understand. The pools, everything was destroyed. I wanted to say it myself. Now we've started fighting to get this area even if it's a gas station so people can live there, someone. It's stuck. Do you think the local authorities agree? Nobody's old and new. Why think about it? They're kids. So it seems to me that this is a very important direction for us to find, to restore what happened. I can give examples of the places near Kiev where pioneer camps can be built that can be argued with the Artek camp by capabilities, by medical means, for as long as possible. We need to look for a way out of this situation to help put everything on its feet. Here, Yuri Alexiyovich, you have many opportunities. And the last. I want to support Hennady Widow, a deputy, and I want to say that there must be an idea in the camp, there must be a kind of educational work that will raise people to be proud of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u157	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. I think you meant a pioneer camp, not a camp that might have a completely different idea. Yeah, Carmazine's gone. Anatoly's frost. Oh, no? Yes, please, Anatoly Rachansky, prepare Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u158	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Rahansky, Epateur constituency, electoral party Rebirth. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, members of the government, voters, in recent years the governments of Ukraine, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have brought to the attention of the Supreme Council the question of the organization of rest and the healing of children in some way just in the summer, not taking into account the disastrous health situation of children in Ukraine. Children with disabilities in the country are young, children under 14 years of age under the age of about 9 million. Of these, 200,000 people with disabilities, about 8 million suffer from various diseases, so they need to be treated throughout the year, not just in the summer. At the same time, the state received a large inheritance from the Soviet Union: specialized sanatoriums for the treatment of children with concomitant training. But there are forces in the state that do everything they can to make sure that these specialized child care facilities don't work in autumn and winter spring. That's the first thing. I want to pay attention to the Social Insurance Fund, and for three months in a row it's been selling travel. And there are other forces that want to sell, who want to transfer these sanatorium-specialized establishments to boarding houses, or, excuse me, to brothels. You can't wait, we can't do that! An example is the All-U.S. Children’s Hospital Eupatoria, where wonderful 65 health - care workers with modern medical facilities, experienced doctors, and teachers work to the fullest extent in the summer alone. That is, the state loses its ability to heal only about 100,000 children a year in Eupatoria. My electorate from Eupatoria asked me to hand over to you, distinguished national MPs, and to political parties who advocate for themselves, and they don't care at all why children in the state are not treated during the fall-winter period in specialized sanatoriums. We forget that healthy children are a healthy state. I also refer to the government of the ‘Urzalznica’, the political party ‘Rebirth’ has done everything to eliminate the consequences of the accident in Alcevsk. Free transportation of children from Alcevska for treatment to Crimea, in Eupatoria alone, has healed 4,000 children from Alcevska. But unfortunately, the government has so far not counted, five million dollars with 13 sanatoriums in Eupatoria for treating children from Alcevsk, and the request is to be calculated on an urgent basis. It is necessary to commit the Ministry of Protection to pay urgent attention to the existence of the only Ukrainian research institute in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u159	Oleg Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, when we have an electoral campaign, although in our small hall, it is so sweet to hear about the healing of children and we are very well, and everything will be fine, and still better. In my opinion, that's not how we're gonna be okay, that's not how it's gonna be. I want to remind you that this committee has been dealing with issues and the Young Guard for more than a year, and the glory of God has been resolved together, and the Artekom issue, which has not been resolved, I am addressing the Minister and I want him to address the President with perseverance. Where are all the agreed documents where the President's Order is promised to transfer "Arteca" to state property, to the Ministry? Because DUS is not a state administration today, it is a commercial structure, and this is another confirmation because today the Sousria public organization, which is now five years in the Vodice Desert, the Star Camp, is taking over in that power, in this power. The President has already intervened, Mr Tarasyuk wrote, "I ask you personally to look into and report on possible ways of managing the conflict." Ten days, the third of February, which is today. So I want to address our authority today, whether they have something wrong with their terms or Mr. Tarasyuk's so busy that he can't carry out the President's own task. So I'm addressing President Viktor Andryovich, if he can, let him meet directly with the MPs, with the people, with the parents of these people, and so on. Most importantly, I want to point out that we have the main orphans in the state, these are the children's centers that start before the health season, and they're taking copies of the coins to paint something, something to pull up to get the kids ready. This is the main problem that we have, and the main question is that in our schedule, honourable colleagues, there was no time to consider the Law on Child Health and Recreation, a law that is legitimate today, and then we will not regret that the tax is coming, the firemen are coming, the bags are loaded, let's see that it's all today in the children's centers. And that's why I want to emphasize and propose, Adam Ivanovich, that we have time on schedule, let's see, today there are two bills. This is what all of the leaders of the children's health centers are talking to us, and there will be no abuse on this background, and we will not then tell all the children that they are so beautiful, because today all the children of Ukraine are equal, all the children of Ukraine should be healed, because the Chernobyl syndrome does not elect any minister, or any father is the president, or the father is the paramedic in the hospital? So I want you and I, colleagues, to put a dot and adopt the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m0.u161	Thank you. The discussion was concluded by all those who wanted to speak on this occasion. I suggest we do an experiment. Let's vote in favour. I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council's Resolution on the Summaries of the Recreation and Recovery of Children in the Summer of 2005 and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the healing of children in the summer of 2006. I think all factions are in solidarity that this decision has the right to life. Let's vote. [[14:28:27]] For-173 Yes, Your Honor, the experiment didn't go through at 16 o'clock. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, the work of the evening session is closed at 4:00 p.m. Have a good one.
