ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:55]] There were 382 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! A morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is held today, in accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of February 8, 2006. You have a list of questions to consider. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, a government official, participates in our work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pleasant time. I would ask that we work together, in harmony, and in a constructive manner, taking into account what day it is. Let's show it in our work. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Katuszewa Zara and Klimpus Oresta. Let us welcome our colleagues, and we wish them good health. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, information on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary from 7 to 10 February 2006. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 64 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, 26 laws and 16 regulations were passed. 6 Bill adopted as a basis. The 1st Bill is aimed at redrafting. 12 bills and 5 draft decrees have been rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed in a new edition, and two laws have been repealed. 378 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Dear colleagues, and the birthday of the national MP, Elena Bondarenko. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us health, success. It's for me. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 4.2.2, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I declare the dissolution of the “One Ukraine” party's parliamentary faction in its membership on February 14, 2006 of 12 national deputies. Honorable National MPs. It is announced for consideration - On the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in providing for the needs of Ukraine with natural gas and energy conservation, and on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of 19 January 2006 No 3387-IV “On non-qualified actions by executive authorities from the provision of natural gas to consumers of Ukraine”. Such regulations are proposed, fellow believers. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov will speak with information for up to 15 minutes. Questions to Yuri Ivanovich, if they do, then we'll settle in within 10 minutes, right? Then five minutes to report to Arsenija Yatsenyuk, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, and Boris Tarasyuk. And then a speech from the committee. Let us continue to determine how we should proceed, what to do next. Is there no objection? Yuri Ivanovich, please. Dear colleagues, this is Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! Gas - related problems can be described as the most important problems for the economy and security of the state without exaggeration. I have to point out that the discussion of Ukraine’s security of natural gas, both in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in society as a whole, is becoming more and more political. In this context, I would like to stress that the government has resolved this problem and comes out of the need to protect the national interests under which we understand, first and foremost, the stable security of the population of Ukraine by heat and gas in heating and subsequent periods, the creation of acceptable economic conditions for the functioning of the country's national economy, the preservation of the gas transport system and gas shelters owned by the State. This priority is to ensure the continuity of domestic consumers with natural gas when they gradually move to a price level that meets modern market conditions. As is known, an agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation since 4 October 2001 on additional measures to ensure the transit of Russian natural gas in Ukraine provides for the annual signing of a protocol that harmonizes with transit volumes, the level of cash payments or the volume of gas to be paid for transit. The 2006 protocol was to be signed by July 1, 2005. However, this was not done primarily because of the unconstructive position of the Russian side. Many meetings with its representatives in 2005 did not lead to the results of Ukraine’s efforts. Moreover, the Russian side proposed much more stringent conditions for cooperation with Ukraine in the gas sector in 2006. It's an increase in the price of gas, a change in the mechanism of its supply from Russia and Turkmenistan, and a change to the monetary form of the bills for the provision of transit services. All of this was proposed without any transitional period and without signing an annual protocol. Despite the government’s hard work, by the end of 2005, it had not been possible to settle differences in the position of the parties on acceptable conditions for Ukraine. Meanwhile, the Russian side warned that in the event of a lack of agreement, it would limit the supply of gas to Ukrainian consumers. The situation was also complicated by the fact that on 29 December 2005 the President of Turkmenistan and the head of the Gazprom Association of Shareholders signed an agreement on deliveries to Russia in the sixth year of 30 billion cubic metres of Turkmen gas, including in the first quarter of 15 billion, that is, virtually the full amount of gas production in Turkmenistan during this period, which could be directed northward. On December 31st, 2005, Gazprom informed NAC Naftogaz of Ukraine that in the sixth year the sales of Russian gas would be made solely on market principles, the price of $230 per thousand cubic metres, and the cost of gas transit services in Ukraine would be cashed. Since January 1, 2006, Gazprom has been limited in the supply of natural gas to Ukraine, which has led to a decrease in the transit volume of Russian gas. I would like to point out that NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” acted in accordance with the terms of the contract made with VAT “Gazprom” on 21 June 2002. An operating headquarters has been established to prevent an energy crisis. As a result of the decisive and consistent actions of the Ukrainian side, Gazprom confirmed that starting on 4 January it would restore the volume of gas supply to Ukraine. Further confrontation in the winter could lead to unforeseen consequences and disruptions in the work of the domestic gas transport system, up to the emergence of a technologically hazardous situation. Realizing this, during the 3-4 January 2006 talks of the Minpalivoenergo Ukraine NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” and the VAT “Gazprom” reached a fundamental agreement on the further cooperation of the parties in the gas sector. The VAT “Gazprom” confirmed the volume of gas supply to Ukraine at the level of the indicators that were recorded in the last days of 2005 and met the terms of the contract of 21 June 2002. On 4 January 2006, the parties, on the basis of the compromise principles, entered into an agreement and additions to previously concluded contracts that defined the conditions for transit and supply of natural gas to Ukraine in 2006 and for ensuring a gas balance for Ukraine. Pursuant to this agreement, in February 2006, a closed stock company called UkrGazEnergo was established, which, in turn, entered into a contract with RosUkre Energo on the sale of natural gas on February 2nd. The basic positions of the documents are guaranteed to ensure a natural gas balance in Ukraine, to set a gas price of $95 per thousand cubic metres by the end of 2010. The rate of payment for gas transit services in Ukraine is $1.6 (U.S.) per 1,000 cubic metres (100 km) by the end of 2010. Mechanisms that make it impossible in a unilateral order to increase the price of gas. Saving the possibility of national regulation of natural gas prices in the internal market of Ukraine, increasing the volume of natural gas transit in Ukraine and the extent to which it is implanted in Ukraine's underground vaults. Considering that the most important observations made prior to the agreements reached are: the lack of guarantees for the availability of the necessary quantities of natural gas to Ukraine to ensure its balance and to maintain a stable price; the lack of confirmation of the presence of suppliers of the relevant gas supplies to Ukraine; the link from the Landmarks to transit with changes in gas prices. These arrangements relate to the inadequacy of previous intergovernmental agreements. I would like to point out this: these agreements do not conflict with the existing agreements between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation in the gas sector and are complemented by the previously signed contracts between the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, the Gazprom stock company and the company “Rosukrenergo”. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is aware of certain risks in relations with the Russian side and of the need to improve the existing regulatory framework for the further settlement of transit relations and the supply of natural gas to Ukraine. All issues of concern should be identified without question as to how they can be resolved. That is why, in view of the appearance on the Russian side of certain objections to its proposed mediator, Rosukrenerego, the government of Ukraine will today send a letter to the head of the government of the Russian Federation. In particular, it expresses its agreement to replace this mediator if he has ceased to hold the Russian side. I agreed to this paper in the morning, and I'll sign it later. Also among the top priorities are the acceleration of the signing of the protocol for the sixth year before the Intergovernmental Agreement of 4 October 2001, which aims to obtain State guarantees from the Russian Federation regarding the provision of gas transit volumes to Ukraine's territory, which fully secures the gas balance for Ukraine. Finally, it is necessary to obtain a guarantee from the Russian side that in the sixth year it will provide through the Gazprom stock company the transit of Central Asian natural gas intended to ensure the gas balance of Ukraine through the territory of the Russian Federation, as well as the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Republic of Kazakhstan. We expect negotiations with the Russian government next week. The warnings and constructive suggestions expressed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine will be taken into account by the government in further work. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again. Contracts and contracts provide the main – the integrity of the Ukrainian gas transport system, the gas balance for Ukrainian consumers, and transit gas supplies to European countries. In addition, the signed documents will provide Ukraine with a transitional period, a time that needs to be used as effectively as possible for the technological resupply of our enterprises and the deployment of energy-saving technologies. The transition will result in an end to the unsustainable consumption of natural gas by Ukraine. We need to make a decisive correction when our energy consumption per unit of GDP is several times higher than in Europe. The competitiveness of Ukrainian companies in world markets should be determined, not by the extent to which the state of low energy prices are subsidized, but by the level of implementation of modern technology and management standards. We have a significant supply of hydrocarbons, and we need to take measures to increase our own gas supply. The question is to create an enabling environment for investment for development and development. The government is working in this direction and we hope that we will be able to raise funds for the development and development of crops on the shelves of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. It is known that the first tender will be implemented in March months. The geopolitical location of Ukraine at the borders of the European, European economic spaces, the availability of developed infrastructure creates preconditions for the development of our gas transport system, including underground gas storage. So we're going to have to confirm in the near future, we're going to approve the expansion program at least twice the capacity of underground vaults. It is estimated that some of the funds received from the increase in the gas transit rate from $1.09 to $1.6 will be directed towards jobs related to improving the reliability of the gas transport system and, above all, to ensuring the reliability of gas transit in Ukraine’s territory to European consumers. The introduction of energy conservation measures aimed at substantially reducing the costs of the gas transport system to technological needs, which is almost 8 billion cubic meters per year, will save at least 25% of the natural gas. The government is still working on finding sources of gas diversification in Ukraine. Proposals for the development of long - term supply projects deserve special attention. With regard to the problems associated with the efficient use of energy resources, some steps have already been taken by the government. A number of government acts have been adopted that approve short-term and long-term measures aimed at reducing natural gas consumption and other energy resources. The proposals discussed for the implementation of these measures at the level of the Ministry were public hearings on this issue with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, leading scientists, representatives of production. The government's task of reducing natural gas consumption by the industrial sector of the economy in January of this year has been accomplished. Metallurgical and chemical complex companies have reduced their consumption to limit levels. Regrettably, not all companies have reduced their consumption by introducing natural gas measures. In a number of cases of natural gas consumption declines have been due to a decrease in production volume, primarily for chemical enterprises. It is worth the attention and the work carried out by Metal Steel, Curve Rig, based on the maximum use of Domain Coke gas, has been able to reduce the consumption of gas in January against December by 30 percent. For the basic sectors of the economy, the challenge remains to concentrate all available financial, material and energy-efficient technologies, to reduce the consumption of energy resources to produce one ton of production. The time reserve created by the government is sufficient for the owners of Ukrainian businesses to realize the need to live, as they say, by means, and as soon as they stop subsidizing anti-government activities and start investing in the modernization of production, they will be able to benefit more effectively from the transition period. Dear National Deputies! It is noteworthy that under extreme cold conditions, countries in Europe from Germany to Russia have taken urgent measures to save blue fuels and to use alternative fuels. At the same time, during January the consumption of gas in Ukraine was record and reached 427 million cubic metres per day. In this regard, we believe that public policy should not be limited to energy saving but should carry a set of energy efficiency tasks, since the term energy conservation is characterized by an absolute reduction in energy consumption without taking into account the efficiency of its use. To our conviction, the artificial reduction in energy consumption could be a hindrance to Ukraine's socio-economic development. These two concepts need to be shared: energy conservation and efficient use of energy resources. Recognizing the importance of these issues, the Government is implementing the President's decree to ensure the work of the National Agency of Ukraine on the efficient use of energy resources. At the current stage, this central executive body will initiate appropriate measures to reduce the energy efficiency of GDP, the only objective indicator of energy efficiency. We believe that the theme of the consolidation of all branches of power, the awareness of Ukrainian citizens of the need for energy savings, will ensure that energy conservation measures are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u3	Give me a chance, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u4	We believe that this theme must be present in school textbooks, educational programs of higher education institutions in all directions. Together with the efficient use of natural gas, the most important issue remains the full payment by consumers. A record of consumption of gas was set in Ukraine in January. During the month, $8.5 billion was spent. A cubic meter of gas, which is almost 20 percent higher than in January 2005. At the same time, only a third of the consumption of natural gas is paid. Consumer accounts for district government funds are 46 percent. In doing so, utilities were estimated at 34 percent. In January, all consumers accounted for 703 million. That's right. Using the presence of media representatives and their outstanding attention to the gas issue, I ask professional help in bringing to the public the people who are free, or cheap, natural gas, there will never be anyone who talks about anything before the elections. Therefore, each consumer should be counted for it at the proper time and in full measure. Dear colleagues, we have a large and complex job ahead of us, and we look forward to understanding and supporting the Supreme Council of Ukraine and every citizen of Ukraine. Only by working together will we be able to achieve positive developments in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the speech by Yuri Ivanovich has been completed. Is there a question? Please sign up. Is it gonna be okay in 10 minutes? It's okay. Ten minutes. Please log in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Paul Sulkovski, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u6	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, you've always spoken, I remember, and if there wasn't a crisis, not a crisis, you're saying that nothing in Ukraine is practically happening, everything's fine. Please tell me, Placzkov is coming in, we heard on TV yesterday as a member or founder you know which company under SkritoRoseEnergo. Whether Plačkov is a member of this company’s gas supply company. One. And the second. Please tell me that it is true that the government has not made a decision to prepare for the winter-summer period last year. Neither Julia Timoshenko has accepted the government and you have become Prime Minister, nor have you accepted it. And as you can see now, if there was such a determination, we need to be confirmed because we have information that the government did not take such a decision for the first time in years of independent Ukraine. And the last. That you'll tell me about a thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u7	The following are the answers. I think that consumers of Ukraine, given that we continue to use 350-330 million cubic metres of gas every day, feel no gas problems at all. And I think the topic that I highlighted about the economy is very relevant. We've done everything to make it a period of adaptation. I don't know anything about the Placzkov in “Roskreenergo”. And to me, this information, this is not information, this is just a misunderstanding of your kind. If you have sources, turn yourself in. It's about preparing for the winter. A government meeting took place, and we made the right decision. As to whether or not the past government had passed the decree. I honestly can't answer that right now. But we've been discussing this at a government meeting -- that's for sure. Sadly, I did not hear the third question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u8	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u9	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Yuri Ivanovich, it is clear that the price of energy today in the world is a matter of great policy. And it's clear that if we go to the market in the West, the price for us is going to be global, about $250 per thousand cubes, like we're not cool here. We have the only option to preserve our industry by providing it with cheap gas, this entry into the Single Economic Area. Your position on this matter. And second moment. What about the gas arrangements to date? I think what they're telling us today is a bit easier to hang. I understand that there have been no gas balance agreements since 2007. Specify the figure that has been said to be 60 billion cubic metres of gas for 4 years. Is that what 15 billion dollars says we've been guaranteed supplies since 2007? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u10	To be honest, I didn't quite understand the logic that the EP would save us both at price and at gas. You understand very well that the Russian Federation is now demonstrating a pragmatic approach, and it makes this very clear to everyone, to all consumers of gas in Ukraine. Regarding the single economic space, Ukraine is participating in the preparation of all the documents that are available, and the recent meeting that took place in Astana, Ukraine was present, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine worked there. It's about gas deals. There is no intergovernmental agreement, more loyally, an interstate agreement with Turkmenistan. And this agreement needs to be reached this year. Now the average demand for Ukraine is, this year, for example, 76.5 billion. Cubometers of gas. They're going to give us 20 to 22 billion in Ukraine, twenty to two. And all the other supplies, all the other gas under the agreements that are now signed, are to be provided by RosUkreenergo at the expense of Turkmen and other Asian gas, plus Russian gas. That's the balance. Until we can name exactly the figure for Turkmenistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u11	Sergei Truenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Please give the floor to Deputy Vadim Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u13	Vadim Gurov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u14	Dear Yuri Ivanovich! The state of the energy economy of the city of Krivogo Roga, I mean the housing fund, which is largely built before the war, is not in a better state than in Alchevsk. This is particularly true of the Socrates, which is the housing of Krivoroztali, which has been transferred to the balance of the city. Thank you for taking these objects and city councils and Mayor Lubonenko on balance. They're doing their best to make sure everything's okay. And right now, we especially need the funds that have been allocated to us under the law signed by President Victor Andreevich Yushchenko. Twenty-four billion is almost spent. But the poachers didn't get a penny. The Red Gornjak, our newspaper editor, published your interview, where you promised the citizens that the money would go soon. But Minister of Finance Pinzenyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u15	Then it's clear. Vladimir Nikolayevich, I think we will solve this issue in the coming days. I understand your concern about the funds, they didn't happen anywhere. No more had happened and the money that had been planned. I mean, the money that goes through the budget, the funds that we have received from the privatization of Krivoroztali, everything goes according to the documents adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Nikolayevich, I'll check in now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u16	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u17	Yuri Ivanovich, please tell me. Very often, such rhetoric is that Ukraine should not have signed new contracts, which in 2005 were all necessary legal grounds for gas to be made at old prices, that is, less than $50. Please tell me, first of all, does this really fit this information? It's different. How long would it take Ukraine to try to defend its national interests, including in the courts, during the settlement of disputes? And so in the course of this discussion, would you like to clarify, is it true, because there is such information that there were some telegrams from Russia in 2006, which allowed Ukraine to consume gas at old prices and to have such calculations, because they already put such charges on the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u18	Thank you. The existing gas contracts in Ukraine were not enough. There's an interstate base, there's a base of intergovernmental, intergovernmental contracts, and I've already talked about that there was no annual protocol. Without it, there is no guarantee of gas supply. Regarding the additions that were made during the signing of the new agreements. In total, there are eight appendices to the contract, and in Appendix 1, there are seventeen additional contracts. Every year we need to clarify these agreements. I'm very happy that the public is very interested in these apps and is enlightening our population about the gas industry. I think so now. Today the work in Moscow will continue and it will be signed somewhere else, from the memory of six or five supplements. If anyone's interested, please, we can show these apps when they're signed. We do. I signed directives for our delegation today. As far as the courts are concerned. Well, it would probably be alchevas as many locations as there are in Ukraine. As a rule, the trial goes from three to one. months ago, so of course it wasn't acceptable. And then, I think that relations with the Russian Federation, relationships that have been going on for many decades and, let's say, for ages, they wouldn't have added anything to anyone if we'd raised those questions hard enough and couldn't agree. We found the necessary compromise in the negotiation process with the Russian Federation. About the telegram. Honestly, I don't know what this is about. They have to say there are no telegrams. The telegrams were only 31 numbers when Mr. Miller at lunch, more faithfully after lunch, after the government's statement stated that. He sent a telegram offering 1 block on old contracts to work, and from 1 April, $230 per thousand cubic meter. We corrected our version of 1 block the old one, and starting on 1 April, the gradual transition over 5 years. Unfortunately, the Russian side disagreed with our choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u19	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. My question is that paragraph 4 of the Agreement provides for the distribution of sources of supply. And experts believe that this has signs of anti-competitive concerted action and is a direct violation of Ukrainian competition law, namely articles of Ukraine's Sixth Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, please tell us why our demands, Ukrainian legislation, have been ignored in this part. Will the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine begin its consideration of the case for signs of a breach of competition law? Because once again, in the opinion of experienced experts, it damages our state and punishes violators. Is not your new thesis today, which has spoken of the removal of the “Rosokrenergo” mediator, an attempt to eliminate these violations? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I think we have a qualified Antimonopal Committee to perform its functions. No one will suspect an antitrust committee in special love and government, or the business structures that operate in Ukraine. Therefore, each one must carry his own suitcase and answer. And I would very much like experienced experts working with you, if they were still working for the benefit and to suggest, perhaps really, taking their vast experience into account in the middle work, maybe they would help us solve Ukraine's gas problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u22	Yuri Ivanovich, thank you. Time's up. I invite you to take part in a joint presentation by the Acting Minister of Economy, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Then Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u23	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Let me comment on the issue that stands today in the order of the day, only with the competence of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. The first thing I want to stop at is the energy efficiency of the Ukrainian economy. Ukraine now ranks first among all countries of the world in terms of energy consumption per dollar of gross domestic product. And this trend is extremely disturbing for both the Ukrainian government and the economy as a whole. The second base postulate you'd like to report is for energy prices in the world as a whole. And so prices are going to go up and the trend to increase is going to have a constant place. The average growth rates for energy coal, coke, oil and oil are on average up to 50%. An example of an increase in oil prices is that export duties, for example, have increased by 200 percent in the last year in the Russian Federation. In view of this, it is clear for Ukraine that the economy will suffer from a substantial increase in prices not only for gas but also for energy in general. Thus, several basic estimates were made by the Ministry of Economics regarding the impact on sustainable economic development, changes in price patterns. The first basic calculation was made at a cost of $230 per 1,000 m of cubic gas. If you recall, that was the price of individual offers from the Russian company re. ‘Gazprom’. I have to tell you that the price of 230 on the basis of its acceptance means a complete collapse for the Ukrainian economy. This is defined in numbers as follows. The growth rate of the gross domestic product is negative and it's going to be 7-8%, minus 7-8%. The consumer price index is about 30%, the producer price index is about 25%. The negative trade balance is minus 7 billion. So you can clearly say that 230 is totally unacceptable to the Ukrainian economy. The second question about the price of 160, that price was also there, that's the same trend as 230, but with a certain decrease in the price parameters. Well, for example, what about GDP, GDP was going to be negative 3, minus 4 percent. This has an objective effect on exchange rate pressures and on the overall economic development that is approaching a crisis, with a price adoption of 230, or 160, in determining the basic price approved by the government’s decision, I would like to report the following. We've taken a few methodological approaches. The first approach is to meet and calculate in a sector-specific way across all economic activity subjects. So we've met with all the associations, I'm stressing with everyone, starting with metallurgy and ending with sugars and even those that grow one or the other in heat, and we've come to the conclusion that the maximum price for the Ukrainian economy at the current stage is not more than $110. All the other discussions about any other prices are totally unacceptable and are those that lead the economy to a crisis. In view of this, I would like to inform you about what has been done by the government and the Ministry of Economics in these matters. First and foremost, the Government of Ukraine has decided to set the limit price for natural gas at $110 for a term of five years. Let's face it, this decision has been made to limit the activity of any entity in the Ukrainian market to the implementation of natural gas and to prevent natural gas from being implemented at an unregulated rate. Thus, today the State has undertaken and committed to all other subjects that the price of natural gas for five years should not exceed $110. Second, think about what. And rumors that this decision is a recommendation. I can assure you that this decision is not a recommendational decision, but is mandatory for all authorities, both public authorities and entities, and is based on both the rules of the constitution and the laws on prices and pricing. And now NCRE is obliged to make this decision, and more specifically, sorry, categorical, sorry, price distribution, which does not exceed $110, but does not mean that it will be $110. This could be lower. Second, on Monday, the State Price Control Inspectorate was commissioned to verify all subjects that are implementing natural gas to comply with the $110 government's decision. Third, we introduce export licences, natural gas not only imported, but also Ukrainian origins to ensure a gas balance in Ukraine. Fourth, the government has decided to draft a law on the introduction of energy-efficient consumption limits. It's being applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u24	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u25	A similar scheme is applied to electricity when excess consumption is fined. Next, it's an internal tariff policy. And here we have a request to consider those proposals, and it is objectively clear that it is not clear when applying this internal tariff policy, because it will necessarily also affect the population tariffs. However, it is necessary to adjust the internal prices on an urgent basis. And at the same time, the Ukrainian population, which will theoretically pay more, should get full-scale government budget compensations in the form of energy subsidies. The next and last question is the question of an intergovernmental protocol that is mandatory. Our position is that this protocol should necessarily be signed with the Ministry of Economics’ proposals to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u26	Thank you, too. Sit down, Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we don't ask a co-conspirator. If you insist. Three minutes, for God's sake. Three minutes. Please sign up for three minutes. Sign up, three minutes. Korsakov, please “Regions of Ukraine”. To whom do you convey?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u27	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u28	Vladimir Bronnikov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u29	Arsenius Petrovich, thank you for the more courageous report than the Prime Minister for the prospects of our economy. It is recognized that by 300 per cent we eat more energy resources per unit with GDP. The Cabinet of Ministers first pledged 10 per cent per year. 30-year-old dynamics. Now, indeed, he has reduced his promises, four per cent per year has already spoken. 30-year-old dynamics. There is an energy strategy for a trillion bracelets for 25 years, prepared by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and has already been considered in the Cabinet of Ministers. I have the economic forecasts you said, I have a question. Where will we take the money for structural adjustment, and how many years will we endure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u30	Dear Mr. People's Deputy. To be honest, if I knew where to take the money for structural reconstruction, that would be at the level of some discovery, and what concerns practical steps today should be the next one, which is impossible to consider structural reconstruction of the economy without changing the external environment, without increasing profitability and without ensuring its continued development. Moreover, the main source of funding today must be the banking system of Ukraine. This is the first source. The second source is external borrowing. The third one just wasn't given. Thirdly, it might be a reinvestment, given that the profitability of the Ukrainian economy is going to increase. But the 2006 and 2007 trend in external markets suggests that the thesis on the excessive earnings of the Ukrainian economy is quite controversial. So three basic parameters. The first parameter is internal lending, the second parameter is cheap external borrowing, the good placement of sovereign in external markets, and the low rate, and the third parameter is reinvestment, which is three key parameters for obtaining the resource.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u31	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u32	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear reporter, you said in your statement that energy prices, including gas, would increase by 30-40 percent annually. And I have a question, and how do you know that prices on the world market are going to go up at this rate, and Ukraine is going to be consuming 95 dollars of gas for 5 years. On what account? Who's squeezing these things, they say, the price goes up? That's the first one. And secondly, there are plans for the Ministry of Economics to rebuild, well, our industry. Nevertheless, we do have the most structural industrial transformation. We have the most developed industry: machine-building, and that's our pride, they say. That's the quality that's already been worked out. These are two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. First. When the report spoke of growth, language, and growth rates were taken into account in the last three years. The outlook for the years to come is completely different. They reach as much as $100 per barrel of oil, so they reach $40 per barrel of oil. Thus, it is difficult to predict further growth of energy resources today, but our personal conviction that they will grow objectively. Now in terms of price 195 and why we're saying that the price of 195 should be 5 years. For that simple reason, the Russian Federation, as the main supplier of gas, and we are, frankly, not interested in whether it is Gazprom, whether it is related to it in the form of “Roskren Ergo” or other entities, received clear and clear guarantees regarding transit rates and storage rates in our gas storage sites of the respective gas. When it comes to transit and storage rates being constant, it is objective that Ukraine requires similar rules. When it comes to raising prices, raising prices theoretically for gas for Ukrainian consumption, it will definitely be about raising prices for all other services, I emphasize, all the other services provided by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u34	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich, sit down, please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Members of the Government! The Ministry of Finance, within its competence, can assess the signing of gas contracts on budgetary matters. Until the adoption of the 2006 budget, we were not aware of the gas price parameters for this year. However, some precautionary measures have been taken in developing the budget for possible increases in energy prices and tariffs. First. The planned cost of utility payments is increased by 12 percent. The total budget has been set at 4.4 billion, one and a half billion in government, 2.9 in local budgets. The other one. Local budgets provide an unallocated resource formula of 1.1 billion dollars. The Ministry of Finance has proposed to local self-government authorities when the budgets are approved to focus primarily on energy conservation and possible additional resources to pay for energy. Third. By 700 million dollars, $2.3 billion has been increased in subsidies for benefits and subsidies for residential services. Of these, 300 million Money, or 19 percent more, has been placed on rising prices. Four. Budgeted at 1 billion The money for investment projects, we recommend that the government focus primarily on energy conservation projects in the budget area. Fifth. In addition to the repayment of debt due to the construction of gas pipelines, an allowance of 450 million gas prices may be directed to this end. In addition to a special energy savings credit line of almost 400 million dollars, the money is used to cover the cost of energy savings. Currency If the price of gas is stable for the population and the cost of the economy is 110 dollars, we can talk about the possibility of keeping the budget balance in the coming months. At the same time, we want to mark the risks that arise by the end of the year, according to Minfin for the budget from the signed package. A relatively complex issue is the increase in expenditure related to the change in gas prices for the budgetary institutions and thermalcommunergo enterprises. Two hundred million. The amount of this issue can be settled within the framework of the operational management of the budget. The other one. Much more serious is the risk of covering the damage caused by the supply of heatcommunergo gas. The Ministry of Finance estimates them by 3.3 billion. In fact, it's about 660 million dollars. That's what I'm talking about. Relating them to NAK “Naftogazu”, under different conditions of activity, allows the operating expenses of NAC to be covered. In doing so, there is no possibility to service credits and make investments with Naftogaz. This has a significant impact on the budget balance. Third. It seriously complicates the situation and the fact that there is no clear guarantee that gas prices are fixed in contracts. The price of gas may change to a well-founded requirement of “Rosukreenergo” and the back number. This condition is inadequate in terms of changing transit rates through Ukraine, which can change with the consent of the parties. Moreover, for “Rosukrenerego” it cannot change for the first two years and can only change twice by 2030. There is no connection between transit rates and prices in contracts. Although the price of gas is a key component of transit costs, we spend about 7 billion on transit. This makes the country quite vulnerable to price pressure. There is no adequacy of the sides in gas-transit relations. In transit, Ukraine, this is NAC, a company operating a gas transport system. In the price of gas and gas transit for Ukraine, this is not Gazprom of the Russian Federation, but rather Rosukrenerego. Its answer is nothing because it has neither gas nor assets. Fifth. It is extremely difficult to assess the budgetary implications of the absence of mirrored gas transit conditions. Ukraine is transporting gas at a base rate of $1.6 per 100 km. After transporting gas to Ukraine from Turkmenistan, there is no wager, since calculations are made with gas or barter. For existing gas distribution ratios in Turkmenistan, 50 dollars in transit rates range from $1,18 cents to $1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u36	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u37	Up to one dollar, 61 cents depends on the transit route. At a price of $100, and this figure already sounds, the real transit rate for Ukraine is rising from $2,37 cents to $3,22. In addition, at a gas price of $230, U.S. gas transit in Ukraine is likely to become harmful. With the proper source database available, the Ministry of Finance can base and accurately calculate all budget parameters, but unfortunately, we can't think of such uncertainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u38	Thank you. You're invited to the presentation. And who from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will speak? Foreign affairs will take place. Anton Denisovich Buteyko is the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Since there has been a request from the Supreme Council that the Foreign Minister now accept the Speaker of the Parliament of Latvia, I cannot have the Minister present in this room. I would like to point out in the context of the issue under consideration by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been actively involved in the preparation and implementation of measures aimed at neutralising the negative impact of the gas dispute that Russia has seen as an element of the implementation of its policies aimed at achieving a monopoly in the gas supply of the region. Foreseeing similar measures aimed at exacerbating the situation, such as the possible cessation or sharp reduction of Ukraine’s gas supply, the Ministry used appropriate measures to obtain political support from other states. In this context, the Ministry has taken steps to inform the governments of the European countries accordingly about the situation surrounding the negotiations with Russia and both in Kiev and through Ukraine's foreign diplomatic institutions. By the end of December last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine had made a proposal to the President and Government of Ukraine for a consultation mechanism in accordance with the memorandum on security assurances in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the non-proliferation treaty of December 5, 1994, the so - called Budapest Memorandum. At the same time, the possibilities of involving the European Union in the settlement of the gas dispute were worked out, with the aim of which the representatives of the ICC were assigned to Brussels to participate in the European Union's coordination group on gas issues, which took place on 4 January 2006. On the night of January 4, 2006, a tripartite agreement was signed in Moscow between NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine, Radgoprom and Rosukrenerego on the settlement of relations in the gas sphere. This covenant has the character of a covenant between the owners of the subjects. Since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the international legal aspects of our State's relations with others, within its competence, the Ministry has analysed this agreement in order to comply with earlier inter-State agreements between Ukraine and Russia, particularly in respect of the principles of equality and mutual benefit, and has referred its conclusions to the Government for further decisions. We consider it appropriate to continue, and we are working to step up the efforts of Ukraine's ministries and departments to align with the Russian side of the 2006 Intergovernmental Protocol on Gas Cooperation and to prevent similar crises in the future. We expect that next week such documents can be considered in a bilateral context with Russia. I would also like to point out that our proposals also address the steps taken to revitalize the dialogue aimed at Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in the framework of the Energy Cooperation Memorandum signed last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u40	Anton Denisovich, thank you, too. The committee will address Klavov Andri Petrovich, head of the committee. In seven minutes, please. Just like you asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to begin by fully supporting the conclusions made in my statement by Finance Minister Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. To date, it is unlikely that any of the people's deputies have doubts that our country's natural gas system has been destroyed by the incompetent actions of the leaders of the gas industry and the unscrupulous position of the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, the interests of our State have been seriously damaged. All the agreements reached previously provided an opportunity, on a mutually beneficial basis, to cooperate in this area both with Russia and with Turkmenistan for a number of years. Changes in the conditions of import, transit, distribution of gas to Ukrainian consumers, namely, serious adjustments to the State's energy policy, were not agreed upon with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, information was provided to the people's deputies with the distortion of the true state of affairs. At the request of the Committee on the nature and extent of the possible socio-economic impact on Ukraine in the event of an increase in prices for imported gas, the economy, the Kabmin to date cannot give a clear argument and a response. Although independent experts have estimated that the country's new gas agreements may be affected by the overall economic crisis and several months after the transition to a new gas price system. Increasing gas prices is a push for inflation. It is inevitable to have a negative impact on the economy, budgets at all levels and populations. The presence in the gas relations between Ukraine and Russia of the third entity in the face of the brokering firm RossUkrenergo and the creation of the SP may have a serious impact on Ukraine's national security. It is clear to all that this will, firstly, lead to the transfer of NAC Oilgas to the joint venture of its responsibilities for the distribution and sale of gas. Second. The use of opaque pricing schemes did not preclude a large differentiation for the purpose of influencing the financial situation of Ukrainian enterprises. Third. Over-exports were made to third countries from tax evasion. Fourth. All of this will be followed by the bankruptcy and restructuring of NAC “Neftegaz Ukraine” and, as a result, by the debt withdrawal of Ukraine's GTS. Regrettably, the Cabinet of Ministers did not attempt to ensure transparent actions and decisions by Mintopenergo and NAC “Neftegaz Ukraine” to change the country's gas supply system. Those decisions could change the fate of Ukraine and the nation and, unfortunately, not the best side. Given the trends in the world economy, it has long been concluded that energy prices will increase, including for Ukraine. But only the Government depended on what choice to make in favour of the national economy. Step-by-step price hikes since 2010, or price shock since 2006. The situation in the country today cannot be described as stable. Unsustainable macroeconomic situations, inflationary expectations and rising energy prices may result in an adequate response from industry, which will automatically raise prices for domestic products. Such a situation could lead to hyperinflation, halting thousands of enterprises and mass unemployment. In order to avoid the overall crisis of the economy, a balanced policy aimed at the economic use of energy resources and improving the energy efficiency of the economy is needed. I will name just a few necessary steps in this direction. First. A number of other Ukrainian laws need to be amended by the Energy Savings Act. Use of alternative sources while tightening sanctions for the misuse of fuel, energy. Second. Adopt the energy security concept of Ukraine. Third. To identify a set of measures to prevent the development of crisis situations as a result of possible sharp fluctuations in energy prices. However, the results of the 2005 work show that, out of the uncertainty about gas supply, Ukrainian enterprises have been operating for 2 months in the current composition of the Government, it is unfortunate that no one will take on all these tasks and national interests. As head of the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee, I believe that the $110 per thousand gas price for five years is nothing but an unreasonable price and an unwarranted deadline. It is once again, unfortunately, naked populism. $110 per thousand cubes is the limit price without transportation and without VAT. In fact, our businesses are going to get $138 per thousand. Next. What are the limits? This is a corrupt scheme, setting limits on gas consumption. In fact, this will affect GDP growth. You, your respectable colleagues, your respectable representatives of the Government, go to business. And stop sending telegrams to the government, where they forbid the work of the ovens around the clock! Who knows from the metalworks knows that if we stop a domain oven once a minute, we will never be able to recover without major repairs again. If such populist, unwarranted solutions continue, the economy of our State will no longer endure such experiments. And I urge the leaders of the Government to stop misleading both the people's deputies and society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, how much time should we take to discuss this matter? Let's go through the records, fellow officers of honor. Here we have the national deputies for the performance, and we're going to follow these records. Let's, well, at least we're going to limit the minutes to 20, because we're not going to be able to look at the second question. Dear colleagues. Let us vote, perhaps, for those who speak. That's 45 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote -- people have already registered here before -- the proposal to allow three minutes from the factions, that is, from the factions that they want. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Three at a time. [[11:05:35]] For 267 We'll follow the factions. There's factions here, I'll call it. It was written down by Kluv from the faction “The Region of Ukraine”. He's transmitting. Who? You're handing over Nasalika, aren't you? There won't be a performance. So Igor Francchuk from the faction, from the Rebirth Party. Are there any Igor Francchuks? Please. Prepare Valery Assadchev of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to consider what we're looking at as a result. The outcome of this discussion is yet to be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, the subject that has become the subject of our discussion today is of concern to all of our societies today. And from the Rebirth faction, we would like to state that today we welcome the steps that the Government of Ukraine is taking to increase its own energy production. Today there is a very thorough, serious work in connection with the development of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf. Today we see that this is our only reserve, our State, to escape the problems of energy dependence. And today, we find that those bills that are being passed to the Supreme Council should still be carefully discussed and supported in order for Ukraine to truly be able to involve investors in the development of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf. We would like to resume work on the bill to amend the Law on Product Division Agreements. I would like to return to this issue at the nearest Conciliation Council to make the procedure for attracting investors more transparent to these agreements, so that no one will have the question that those contests and tenders that have been announced so far in March could be carried out in compliance with all the norms of our Ukrainian legislation. I think that today the problems that we have received from the Russian Federation monopoly on gas supply and transit can only be solved if Ukraine actually becomes more resource-intensive, it can attract large Western companies here. On the issue of gas transit, our position today is that we must leave work between Russia and Ukraine on the issue of a gas transport consortium. And we would like today to examine carefully the inclusion of gas-derived countries -- that is, Turkmenistan is transporting gas, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Russia and countries that are implementing gas in the Western market. Only such a structure could guarantee that Ukraine will always be able to fill its gas transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u44	Yes, Valery Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u45	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian The People's Block of Kostenka and Ivy. The Ukrainian National Block notes that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this very complex issue that we are considering today has taken an open anti-government, anti-Ukraine stand. The first attempt to destroy our relationship with the Supreme Council of Economic Affairs has been made by Russia. And whoever, as it were, is here to support the government here and in our first consideration of this issue is to clearly understand these positions and not only to defend the government, but also to give it some serious recommendations in this negotiation process. For example, the Supreme Council has ratified the Energy Charter in its own time, and it has been ratified by all countries in Europe. According to this Energy Charter, we should have had access to the transit Russian pipe the same way the Europeans have access to our Ukrainian pipe. We need to be able to figure out both the price issues and the additions to these agreements. The agreements have not yet been signed. After the Supreme Council resigned, negotiations were still under way. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine took an open anti - state position. First of all, I have those factions that voted in favour of resigning the government. They only helped Russia by resigning the government, by carrying out expansion and pressure on “Our Ukraine” and the Ukrainian economy. Now, in fact, it's a matter of fact. Today, there have indeed been many questions that have not yet been answered. For example, the joint venture, which is formed and will sell gas in Ukraine, will benefit from the preferences that the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” has in the budget today, i.e. zero rates for gas imports and zero sales rates. I highly doubt that. No one will give him such preferences. So the way it's going to monopolize gas in Ukraine, the question remains absolutely open. As the issue of diversification remains open, Ukraine has purchased gas. Will Ukraine now be able to buy gas in Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, after it has signed a deal with “Rosukreenergo”. There are so many outstanding questions left. Sadly, though, today we see that the Supreme Council and the Governing Body do not want to deal with this issue in an inexorable way. Three minutes to ask, two minutes to perform and so on. And finally, I want to answer some others who asked where to take the energy savings money. Of course, it takes a lot of money. But I'll give you at least one example. Today, the Kiev budget, which amounts to more than 5 billion dollars, is located in Mr. Omelchenk’s private bank. And he cuts his coupons in his pocket. Why not put it in a state bank and sign an energy conservation agreement at least in Kiev. And let's look very carefully at the other budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Basil Nadrag. To prepare Joseph for Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u47	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. The gas in Ukraine is more than fuel. Today, for the same reason, natural gas has also become a real threat to the Statehood of Ukraine. And we have no doubt at all the correctness of the Supreme Council's decision on the resignation of the Government. I would like to defend only one phrase to the previous speaker. You ask questions to the Government and you find no answers. As a summary, you speak of some responsibility of the Supreme Council. At least be consistent in logic. Every day, it comes out of the seams like new details and details of this event of the century. The industrial gas from the UkkGazEnergo SP is no longer worth $95 per thousand cubic metres, but at least 140. Last week, the Government adopted a regulation setting out the minimum price for gas for industrial enterprises at $110, excluding VAT and transport costs, and taking into account all 150. And that's not going to last, first of all, the steel industry is giving 20% of our gross national product, i.e. every fifth bracelet. The chemical industry, where gas is used as a raw material, is also not a dwelling on all life indicators. Judging from the intention of Turkmenistan to raise the price of gas from $65 to $100 per thousand cubic metres, the price of gas on the Ukrainian market will take off and then UkrGazEnergo will act as an agent for bankruptcy in the entire Ukrainian economy, the role that originally was the ideology of the project, which seems to have been developed outside Ukraine. By the way, we were assured that the natural gas produced in Ukraine would be sufficient for the needs of the population and utilities. This total requirement is 18 billion cubic metres per year. With statistics showing that we're getting 20 billion dollars on our own. Profitability minimum, transport costs too. It is asked where the legs of the ordinary myth of the total loss of public utilities and the urgent need to raise the price from 180 bracelets for a thousand cubes to 394, more than twice. Prior to the President's election, stable tariffs had been promised, but that would not be difficult to imagine. Parliament commissioned the Chamber of Auditors to check the accounts of Naftogaz Ukraine until 15 February. There, obviously, we should look for the keys to the problem. I would like to know why we are not listening today to the legal assessment of the Office of the Attorney-General on the agreement between Naftogaz and Gazprom and Rosukrenerego. In conclusion, I would like to recall that the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania initiated a moratorium on the price of utilities for the population in October and will advocate this position in principle. And we don't understand why a moratorium has been imposed, the President's veto, on a bill adopted by the Supreme Council. As a matter of fact,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u48	Joseph Wynsky, a faction of the Socialist Party, prepare Shufrich instead of Shurma from the faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u49	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Is there a gas problem in Ukraine today? Obviously there is. What is the nature of this problem? If we do not answer this key question, we will never answer this problem. I would put subjective and political factors first, and this must be recognized today. It should therefore be made clear that the solution to the gas problem in Ukraine is possible only if the subjective and political factor is removed, first and foremost. And the first criterion for a positive movement in solving gas problems is the real business political dialogue between Ukraine and Russia at all levels -- on the presidential, on the government and on the parliamentary. The second criterion is the real assessment of the professional qualities of officials working in the gas sector. It is obvious that personnel changes are needed, and these changes are to take place immediately. The third criterion and the recognition of the fact that we have not yet found a real, strategic solution to the gas problem, as evidenced by some government officials today. What factors give Ukraine a positive gas supply perspective? First of all, it's ownership of the gas transport system and gas storage. The other one. This is acceptable to key sectors of the economy and the population's price of gas, the pricing system should be in the hands of the government and have precise, adequate pricing mechanisms for certain segments of the economy. Third. This is the ability of the state, the government, first of all, to be a determining player in this direction, not intermediaries, namely NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, as a public company, and inter-State contracts should be the main tool for solving the gas problem. Third. It has to be admitted that there are no market prices in the monopoly. Therefore, all market - price discussions on gas should be rejected. Monopoly prices are political prices. Hence, it is in the political realm that gas problems must be sought first. And the last. The rise in gas prices is an objective process. So we have to make it clear that these gas costs per unit of gross domestic product that we have today, our economic system can't stand. So we need to develop technologies and industries that in the coming years will decrease at the same time, I repeat, once again, the cost of gas per unit of gross domestic product. So energy conservation and new technologies are the only strategic way out for our economy and for the state, in principle, of this problem. I would like to stress in particular that energy conservation, not limits, is the solution to the situation. Because the limits don't answer the key question: how to develop our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u50	Nestor Shufric is invited from the faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the honorable duties of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, respected fellow countrymen. Of course, we must answer first, before discussing this very painful question today, in two circumstances. First. That, after all, prompted Yushchenko and Yvchenko's initiative to travel with a Ukrainian-Russian translator to Moscow and to demand changes to the treaties that guaranteed us a stable flow of gas before 2013 at a recorded price of $50 to 2009. Of course, we need today to know the answer to the question why the Russian Federation's telegram of 31 December was ignored, where we were asked to retain the terms of the existing treaties for the first quarter of 2006, the winter quarter of 2006. And we know very well that those conditions would have remained. What do we have today? Today we have 975 dismissed specialists in the Nak oilegaz system Ukraine. Who didn't like the seniors? Today, of course, we ask, what was the need to attract one billion euros, who would pay eight percent of the annual and who would collect that money? Today I would like to address Yuri Ivanovich, unfortunately he has already come out, why Ivchenko is allowing himself to say that he will not even present any documents to the Government. This is what we have today, the princely office within Ukraine of NAK “Neftegaz Ukraine”. Today, under the pressure of the commission of inquiry, we are already committing and requesting it, and we demand that we immediately provide documents to find out who is behind the betrayal of the interests of the Ukrainian people. What are the limits that take power today? The limits are the collapse of the national economy. In doing so, it was said that the need for the so-called 95 dollar price was only attributable to the fact that gas would enter the country without restrictions. So to justify, by the way, not $95, but $110 if today's major strategic enterprises are limited in gas, which means in production. For many of them, it is a basic commodity. Who is so concerned about the development of the national economy? Today, we believe that the country has witnessed global fraud and fraud. And we demand, in the draft order under the authority of Nasalika, to include a paragraph to prohibit the issue of a licence, a so-called joint venture. It is the responsibility of the State to control and ensure the internal gas market and we do not have the right to delegate these powers to anyone. This is a shift in national interests and we need to understand, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u52	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Valentin Matthews will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u53	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I would like Mr. Yehanur's absence here to address the matter of the Supreme Council's head, the signed treaty is a fool or a betrayal? But I'd ask the question a little differently. Is it a direct corruption interest? Again the question of the missing ex-Minister. Why do you not prove the truth to the end today? Because when you say a transit agreement is made for five years, it's not. I call the document according to Supplement No. 1 of the HU-06 contract from 21 June 2002 to 2030. Dear citizens of Ukraine, and colleagues, by 2030, and not by 2011, as Mr. Yehanurov had lied to us here, she gave Russia a pipeline and sold it at a rate of 1/6, and in 10 years, that 160 cents will be converted into 16. The second half of Mr. Yehanurov's truth. You're saying that Ukraine has preserved its gas networks and gas repositories. According to the document, additional contract number 4 to contract number 14/953 again 25 years in advance, Ukraine has deposited all its gas depots at $2.25, before that was the price of $8. Now it's down to 2 and that's when, for example, Hungary itself gives its gas shelters at a price of $17 to $22. Moreover, Naftogaz is now denied the right to supply gas to Ukrainian enterprises, that is, we are giving our domestic market to Russia. That's one more time. It is no longer crucial that gas depots and gas networks are kept in state ownership or are not stored, and will their role as a basic element of the Ukrainian economy now be reduced to conditional? And we have to protect the government here? But just because we've caught the public's attention and abandoned the government, we have, at least somehow, stopped this vachanal of looting and, indeed, of betrayal, of friends. And the third. Our faction first spoke of the corruption structure “Rosukreenergo” and we called among its owners Vladimir Putin, the criminal authority of Semin Mogilevich, Dmitri Firtasch, representatives of the new Ukrainian authorities and their relatives. Now Mr. Yehanurov has agreed with this and says that he has previously disagreed, and says that “Rosukreenergo” will change. The question is, who's been sewn on? Will Firtash and Mohilevich be there again, and Putin, and Boykas, Tumans, or other dear friends. And the last. We're right to abandon the government. But I am truly sorry that the ministers who spoke openly and openly about the abyss that had been thrown into Ukraine by Yvchenko and Yehanurov became hostages of the gas deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u54	Yes, Valentine Matthews, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Bull's-eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u55	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Communists have always taken a firm stand against those acts of authority that have led to the deterioration of people’s lives. What are these steps to meet people when the price of gas rises more than twice when people are hidden from the truth, when the security of the State depends on some new joint venture with questionable founders? Is that a national approach? Who calculated what would be at the back of Ukraine’s economy? What about the budget for both Ukraine and every Ukrainian family? Taking into account such an honest and moral policy of orange power, a faction of communists is said to have been following the hot trails where on January 10th of this year the Supreme Council introduced a draft law and it was, by the way, adopted as you remember, a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity. Yesterday it became known that the President vetoed the law. And clearly, fellow citizens, this is done at the suggestion of the government, which is summed up, the esteemed radio listeners, to review citizens' electricity tariffs from thirteen and a half to twenty-five copies per kilowatt-hour and natural gas from 185 to 394 bracelets per thousand cubes. Here are your steps to meet the people. For some reason Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov did not say. And today we realize that the problem is not solved. Both Russia and Turkmenistan claim that gas prices will be reviewed. So people have to be honest: there will be no $95 gas in Ukraine. The government officials are stubbornly continuing their, I would say, dirty and dishonest play, fooling people, secreting the texts of secret agreements. We are confident that the most important political issue today is the gas problem at the level of the first persons of the nations. Is this normal when this problem is set to the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and RAO Gazprom? The President of the government needs to implement the decision of the Supreme Council that you and I made in January. We need to immediately develop an anti-crisis package to help us get out of this crisis. I think we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u56	Sergey Bichkov, “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare for the presentation of Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished Presidency, dear fellow countrymen! The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that when assessing the results of the gas crisis, it is necessary to take into account the difficult conditions in which the government formed last September began its work. The previous management of the Cabinet of Ministers not only failed to take steps to reconcile the 2006 Intergovernmental Protocol, which would guarantee the preservation of existing conditions of cooperation, but also gave rise to the revision of the long-term agreement package with the Russian Federation and the gas industry. As a result, the government of Yehanurov was forced to correct predecessors' mistakes in negotiations with the Russian side at the beginning of the heating period and in conditions of a significant increase in gas prices in European countries. At the same time, the government had to make a decision that would not put the natural gas of the population and industrial consumers at risk in this year’s extraordinary cold winter months. Not only did the Russian government continue to insist on an immediate increase of $230, but it did not conceal its intention to stop the supply of Russian gas to Ukraine since 1 January 2006, if Ukraine refused to pay the price, as we now know, the situation has become critical in view of the fact that at the end of last year, Gazprom has made every effort to limit supplies to Ukraine of Turkmenistan’s natural gas and has acquired the full amount of its gas production in the 1st quarter of the current year without having to pay a thousand cubic metres more than Naftogaz of Ukraine. To be clear, it's about $600 million a month. In connection with the activities noted, the management of Turkmenistan and Gazprom in early 2006 posed a real threat to the energy supply of Ukrainian consumers. We believe that the Cabinet of Ministers at the time was clear, timely and adequate in an extraordinary situation. The established operational headquarters, the decrees issued by the Cabinet of Ministers allowed this situation to be balanced when the ice creams in January reached below 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C], and gas was given to people and businesses immediately, not when it was needed two years or two months later. At the beginning of January, agreements were reached on the conditions for further transit of Russian gas, as well as on ensuring a balance between Ukraine’s gas. The bitter experience of the previous government shows that a careless approach to energy security ends badly. The “Our Ukraine” faction invites the members of the Supreme Council to consider a draft Decision on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of natural gas to the national economy and population during the autumn-winter period 2005-2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u58	Alexander Tkalenko, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Sergey Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u59	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today's debate in Parliament seems a little premature, because recently we have formed a temporary commission of inquiry into the financial and economic activities of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, personnel policy and security of Ukraine with gas for 2006. This commission is working, and this week the members of the commission will be familiar with the documents that are needed for further conclusions. And today's speeches by some of our colleagues today just remind me of pre-election populism. Despite some mistakes made by the previous government, the personnel errors made by Naftogaz's leadership must be acknowledged that the gas transport system, Ukraine's oil and gas complex, endured the test with these colds, endured the exam and, in relation to Russia's very serious pressure on Ukraine before New Year's. And that's true. And that's why I don't think I should forget the fact that since the mid-1990s, when companies such as "The only energy systems" as "Itera" were in the gas market in Ukraine, there was gas at 80 to 90 dollars, and no one was making it a tragedy. And it's not tragic that we've had problems constantly, for many years now, with the gas supply of utilities for both large and small cities. So this particular panic that we have in Parliament today, I repeat, is caused by purely pre-election purposes. So I would like to call everyone to their senses and express my patriotism to us as parliamentarians, including in ensuring parliamentary control over the situation of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Today, a subcommittee on the functioning of the Black Sea fleet and its presence in Ukraine and the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission "Jushchenko-Putin" began its work. I had just returned from the meeting of this commission and I had the clear impression that the Russian side would be delaying the process. So I think we really need to set up a commission of inquiry with you and take an active part in resolving the above-mentioned issue. And on the basis of that, let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u60	Sergey Sobolev, "Reforms and Orders" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the voting “PRA-PRP block” gave a sufficiently clear assessment of the gas agreements signed by the last government, which were signed by the previous governments. In my opinion, we never received an answer to the key question: Why didn’t we hear a report from the head of the antitrust committee in this regard? Who now owns all the information about the founders of Rosukrenerego, but for some reason claims that this information is commercial. That's what In fact, he did not give any permission to create an enterprise under the agreements signed on January 4, as required by the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. And everyone understands very well that these agreements could not be signed without the permission of the antimonopoly committee. And thirdly, how did you get permission to create the SP through the Antimonopoly Committee, which actually got these documents today two hours before the decision he made. So the simple question is: how did a member of the list of Yanukovics, the head of the antitrust committee of Kostuyev, clearly carrying out the orders of his patrons, actually, sell the decision through the Antimonopoly Committee and not going to report here to the Supreme Council, as an organ directly subordinated to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And by the way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on the Conciliation Council, it was agreed that the head of the Antimonopoly Committee would raise his voice to the Supreme Council on the foundation of Rosukreenergo, because there can be no confidential information in this regard. Secondly, in the view of the PRA-PRP constituency, it is now clear that those agreements that were signed in previous years regarding the transit of Central Asian gas, when binding takes place not at the cost of transit, but at the amount of gas that we pay for barter, either “Rosukre Energo”, continue to be impossible, especially in the light of the rise in prices for Central Asian gas. And so far, we need to clearly define the parameters that will give us a very clear sense of gas transport across the territory of the Russian Federation for Ukraine, not the barter that exists today. It is absolutely clear that all agreements signed in one form or another can be implemented only after the permission to create and issue licences is given directly by the Socialist Party to the relevant commission that regulates these issues. That's why until the commission works with the government, in our view, we need to make all the recommendations so that no such permission can be granted, and only after conclusions can we get a clear idea of the consequences of such an agreement. That is why the constituency of the “Citizen PRA-PRP block” insists that the agreement signed on 4 January be all contracts signed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u62	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to find out why there is no head of the Antimonopoly Committee and to provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowytenko, head of the committee, please, which has a direct bearing on the subject under discussion. We agreed that there would be a presentation from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Yuri Ivanovich. So on February 10th, we were looking into this room about a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on housing work. And this review once again showed that people's vitality is dependent on energy. And the tragedy of Alchevska, Alexandria, and other population locations is a complete loss of control over the situation in the field of energy supply. Grass and inflexible patterns of energy consumption do not contribute to their economic use and open the way for abuse and disincentives, and our citizens are primarily affected. To put an end to this shameful situation, a group of deputies in the Desert, Klav, Kuharczuk, Jeremeyev, Dsonya, Shurma and others introduced a bill on Ukraine’s energy security. The need for adoption of this law is due to the lack of approval at the level of the State institutions of the concept. And the subject of its consideration is factors that cause or cause a fuel-energy crisis. The absence of a concept does not allow society to move properly and exacerbates the negatives of that trend. The absence of clear government positions in this regard also prevents this work. The purpose of this bill is to define the basic principles and strategic direction of government institutions. A comprehensive energy security assessment is envisaged. These are based on the concept of macro-economic indicators that are geared towards a wide-ranging energy supply. And it should also be noted that in the current year, domestic prices for energy such as electricity and gas consumed, including the population, do not correspond to reality and are significantly underestimated in terms of world prices. I propose that we know about housing services, because the debt has grown from 8 billion to 9. And today, the issue of protecting the national economy and social protection of the population is not being resolved. And such an approach must be balanced and economically justified and, most importantly, planned and premeditated to address those shortcomings. The concept deals with parameters: the level of demand for electrons, the state of the main fuel and energy funds, the impact of the operation of enterprises and many other issues. And including the level of that. State administration and regulation of the activities of operators, financial sources in the fuel and energy complex. The concept of energy security is focused on 2030. Its adoption will ensure a state and balanced and consistent policy aimed at overcoming existing negative impacts on the country's energy dependency and energy security of Ukraine. And, Reverend Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u64	Okay. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, present as Acting Head of the Antimonopoly Committee Kravchenko Yuri Grigorovich. Should we listen to his information? Don't you insist? You insist. Please go to the rostrum. Please give me the information for three minutes. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Now we're going to figure out what we're going to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u65	The honourable head, the honourable people's deputies, of the questions raised in this discussion, I can make a report, and I can answer the answers that have been given in relation to the position of the Antimonopoly Committee on granting permission to create a joint venture between Rosukrenerego and NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. With regard to the questions raised regarding the granting of a permit for concerted action, in fact, article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition provides for actions that are declared anticompetitive and cannot be allowed. The Antitrust Committee, taking a decision on 31 January this year concerning the granting of a permit to create this enterprise, was guided by Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, when these actions may be permitted under certain conditions. It's these conditions that relate to the development of techno-economics, the development of investment. And all of these conditions are laid down in the decision of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. I would also like to say that the committee has studied very carefully the situation in monopolized markets. These are Naka enterprises, subsidiaries and NAKs, 9 commodity markets where NAK holds a monopoly, and more than 20 markets where Naka companies and enterprises are involved in the joint venture Rosukrenergo. There's no monopolization in these markets. Thus, after considering all the circumstances, the committee concluded that a substantial reduction in the level of competition in all commodity markets would not take place. Simply put, when we have a monopoly in the natural gas supply market for different consumer categories last year, which is NAC with a share of more than 90 percent, the situation is changing now, and we think that the monopoly market is going to change into an oligopolistic market. Moreover, for the provision of natural gas for industrial consumer categories under the documents given to the Antimonopoly Committee, both NAC and joint ventures as well as other suppliers can operate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u66	The question is, who is the founder of this business?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u67	I want to explain, to the honourable national deputies, and I said this at a meeting of the Interim Commission of Inquiry, which was set up for this issue, what is the special norm of the law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. This is article 22 with the one badge that allows us to publish information about the founders, I apologize, not just about the founders, but about the information that was marked by the applicants as confidential.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u68	Microphone!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u69	Such information, on 27 and 28 January of this year, authorized representatives, both NAQ and Roskreenergo, namely information about the founders, information about the controlling entities associated with them and information about the commercial markets in which they operate, was marked by a commercial secret with an appropriate admission regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u70	Thank you. Yuri Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear National Deputies! The discussion is over, we need to decide what to do. There are two draft regulations. 9094 are the authors of the Bulls, the Robot and other national MPs. And 9095, which is proposed by the committee. Is there a need for the authors of the draft decrees to give an argument? You don't have to? I'll be in charge of registering these documents to put them to the vote. Dear National Deputies, the first to be proposed will be a draft decree made by the People's Deputies: Bickov, Horobec, Chechel, Polyvanov, Gornik, Kelestin on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the provision of national economics and natural gas to the population in the autumn-winter period 2005-2006. I'm betting on a vote to approve the project as a ruling. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:54]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Now, if you'll have your attention. Let's go. The factions? Please. “Regions”, Communists, National Party – Zeros, “Our Ukraine” – 35, BUT, SPU, National Block, SDPU(o) – Zeros, NPP – 17, “Rebirth” – 11, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 5, National Movement of Ukraine – 10, “Reforms and Order” – 2, “Only Ukraine” – 1, “non-fractional – 3. I now put to the vote, my fellow Members and I beg your attention, the draft ruling proposed by the Committee is registration No. 9095 “On the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the provision of the needs of Ukraine with natural gas and energy conservation”, and on the status of implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 3387-4 of 19 January 2006 “On the unqualified actions of the executive authorities and the provision of natural gas to consumers of Ukraine”. I'm putting the project in order for it to be approved as a decision. Please vote. [[11:50:25]] For 251 I'll take the order. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u71	No, I was just voting on a project that was worked out and proposed by the committee. It's a document, the order's been passed. We can no longer accept the addition, dear colleagues. No, no, the ruling was passed. We can't accept the supplement. It's a project. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The factions, please. Please, by the factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 41, Communists – 52, National Party – 37, “Our Ukraine” – 1, BUT - 32, SPU - 24, National Block – 21, SDPU (o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 6, “Rebirth” – 1, industrialists and entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” – zero, “only Ukraine” – 4, non-fractional – 13. The work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation in the agro-industrial sector and on the state of preparation for spring-field work is under review. Reporters: Acting Minister of Agrarian Politics Alexander Petrovich Baranowski and Economics Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk Offered in time, dear fellows. Alexander Petrovich, how long do you need? 15 minutes for the report, and since this is the main report, and the answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we work without interruptions, finish our consideration of the matter, and move on to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On September 23, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to overcome the crisis in the agri-industrial complex. This decision was made in October to consider and adopt a number of bills that dealt with the most problematic issues of the agricultural sector in the first place. I want to thank you for the 21 laws that were passed. For this great and sincere, venerable, grateful, distinguished national MPs. In addition, rural producers sincerely thank the Supreme Council’s constituency for increasing the village’s budget support in 2006, which enables the competitiveness of domestic agricultural production to be improved. In terms of the short state of development of the APC, the following can be noted last year: According to the results of activities as a whole, it is possible to say that the preserved volumes of basic food production are at a level that guarantees the food security of the state. Gross production this year increased by 3.3 percent in January. In the new year, the tone is not bad, and he is convinced that it will be preserved. It is expected to increase the income of the agricultural sector and increase the level of profitability and, above all, it can be argued that the agricultural sector has managed to maintain the 2004 position, although it is known that it has been the most favourable climate-friendly in many recent years. Exports rose by 23 percent, the surplus was $1.8 billion. In fact, rules on agrarian market were established that year and mechanisms of government regulation were tested. The Agrarian Fund and the Agrarian Exchange have been formed as a tool for its agrarian intervention, a price balance for government price regulation objects, and an effective market mechanism for creating transparent and fair prices for production. In order to prevent the collapse of prices in the grain market, the Agrarian Fund, although only created, has already granted budget loans to producers amounting to nearly 278 million dollars under the bet of 645 thousand tons of grain, 95,000 tons of formed grains in the food reserve, and 25,000 tons of sugar totalling 129 million dollars. This led to a significant impact on price formation and did not allow them to fall sharply during the mass harvesting period. Regrettably, last year’s cost of about 1 billion dollars was only a third of the government’s food reserve. We have managed to preserve positive trends in vegetation. There were 38 million tons of grain, 18.7 tons of wheat, 7 percent more than in recent years. Today, stocks of food grain account for about 6 million tons, with a new shock of 2 million tons. If there is an increase in the area, there is an effort to raise the price for bread, only the unrhythmic work of local administrations can be done because the prices for flour of a higher species are within a thousand three hundred dollars, which is 1.5 times lower than a year ago. One and nine million tons of sugar were produced. The sunflower’s production increased by one and a half times four and seven tenths of a million tons. That's the third indicator in the world. I will note that with a view to diversifying the areas of sown under sunflower to scientifically-based limits, the structure of crops is reviewed in the direction of expansion of the areas of rape, soy and other cultures. The gross collection of rape seeds last year increased by two and a half times to three hundred thousand tons. These are only the first positive results of the 2005-2010 rape programme in Ukraine. Food production increased by 14 percent. Fertility production increased by 3.3 percent and grapes by 18 percent. Everyone is well - known for last year’s winter crop, caused by an unprecedented drought that has not been observed in the past 124 years. According to the State Department, the winter cultures are sown in an area of about 6.2 hectares, which is 98 percent to what is predicted. The east is 99% of the area. And because there was such a long fall, heat, and the beginning of winter, we entered the winter with pretty good stairs. At the same time, the unfavourable weather conditions of January 2006 made winter winter conditions much more difficult. During January 17-27, the minimum temperature of the air fell to minus 27 degrees and in some regions to minus 37. Starting on February 5, the second wave of cooling occurred, which was slightly softer in January, but in the eastern areas of the ice, it was minus 28-30 degrees. Previous data on crop harvesting shows that some crops have been severely damaged. The preservation of the viability of most plants in all regions contributed to the availability during the largest cooling period on snow cover crops of 4-20 cm high, and places in the eastern areas of 21 or more. In parts of the southern and some other areas alone, the snow cover was small or completely absent. In the fields where the snow cover was between 8 and 10 cm deep at the depth of the peer's swallowing of winter temperatures did not decrease minus 8 to 12 degrees. According to the region’s state of affairs on February 10, this year, up to 4 million hectares — 65 percent, 26 percent weak and divided — 1.6 million, and within 730,000 hectares, or 12 percent of the total winter wedge — are considered to be good and satisfactory. In this regard, the structure of bright cultures is being reviewed. A total of 20.2 million acres [20.2 million ha], 9.2 million or 18 percent [18 percent] of the seedlings of bright grains and grains, primarily by the expansion of corn into grain, barley, and bright wheat to 700 hectares [700 ha]. We will have more information about the winter course within the next 10 days of the restoration of the full vegetation of the monoliths. Preliminary findings have been made regarding damage to fruit crops and vineyards as a result of frost. In particular, all regions have significant damage to the generative organs of the bone and the areas of damage to grain crops. In the grapes, 95 percent of the central and 80 replacement dumplings were almost killed in all the vineyard areas. The damage to the root system of long - term plantations during the period of research has not yet been found to be evidence of conservation. In this regard, regional seminars are now being held in places with the aim of maximizing the conservation of crops this year. According to our estimates, more than 200 million dollars are needed for gardening and vineyards. More than 347 000 tractors, 134 thousand of them from the private sector, are planned to engage in the spring-field work complex. During a tense period of work, contractual arrangements will also involve technology from industrial enterprises and educational institutions. The technology's readiness for today is 2 percent higher than last year's, twice as much last year's mineral fertilizers. The fuel requirement is 662,000 tons of diesel and 227 gasoline. To date, we have 11 percent more fuel than we did last year, or it's 54,000 tons. As I noted, 1.9 million tons of sugar was produced last year, which is the highest rate in the last 10 years. This fully satisfies the internal needs of the State. And according to expert estimates of Mineconomy and Minegropolitics, unrealized sugar reserves in Ukraine on February 1st were over 1.7 million tons and provide the internal market at least until December 1st of the year. With the sugar of the new crop coming to the consumer in September. Nevertheless, there is an artificially high demand and price permanently generated in the sugar market. The architects of such spontaneous price explosions are related companies to major sugar market operators. The same is true in the summer of 2005, when sugar-sulphur imports from the cane had an artificial increase in sugar prices. It was only through our uncompromising position that we managed to stabilize the market. Today, there are no valid reasons for price increases in the internal market for sugar, but operators are artificially using the external conditions that have arisen in the world and in Russia. And there's a sharp rise in prices for white sugar and cane sugar due to a decrease in its production and a substantial increase in demand for fuel ethanol. First of all, it's in Brazil and Argentina. Yes, the price of cane sugar was $400 on the London Stock Exchange this February 9, New York, 454. Prices for white sugar in the Russian Federation went up to $754. In view of this situation, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economics, together with the Ministry of Economics, has set up a working group to analyse the state of affairs in the sugar market. We have come to the conclusion that in order to avoid sharp price fluctuations, it is necessary to urgently introduce both wholesale sugar and its exports. On October 14, the price situation in the sugar market generally stabilized, and there is a tendency to lower prices. Compared to February 7, it fell by 15-20 copies. At the same time, we come from the need for other executive authorities to implement a series of urgent measures to strengthen the protection against uncontrolled exports of sugar, as well as by contributing to the production of more than 600,000 tons of sugar, in its sale and purchase of fuel, mineral fertilizers. For the first time in years of independence, agricultural producers have declared a substantial expansion of the area of sugar beet crops this year. For example, the Poltava region plans to increase it by 30 percent. With regard to animal production, on January 1, 2005, cattle were made up of seven heads of pigs — six and a half million, and birds — 153. Of course, it is not possible to satisfy consumer demand with such a headhead. Therefore, specific steps have been taken to get out of this situation. Taken the course for the development of large-scale production, creating the conditions for maximum control of livestock carnage in the population. Programmes for the development of pork, poultry, dairy, and meat farming have been developed to double the production of this product by 2010. Programmes for the reconstruction and construction of animal complexes and bird factories As a result of last year’s action, there have been some positive developments in the field. Yes, according to the State Department of Agriculture, 13.8 million tons of milk and 13 billion ounces of eggs were produced last year to kill about 2.4 million tons of cattle and birds, with the exception of meat. I would like to point out that it is especially encouraging to see the increase in agricultural production, the production of meat that has increased by 82,000 tons, or 11 percent. This fact once again shows that large - scale production has an enormous prospect. During the past year, 267 were reconstructed and 20 animal complexes and farms were introduced. As a result, the rate of production for large - scale pigs and birds has increased, and growth has increased markedly. For the first time in these years, meat production has exceeded 80 thousand tons of impact, 10 percent of which is evidence of increased meat resources. I mean, it's also increased by 25 percent last year's sales to the young bird's population. A few words about grants. For the first time in the last year, we used 99.5 of all the funds that were allocated to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy when they were used between 86 and 54 percent. On the basis of subsidies, the large cattle sold for meat increased twice by 263,000 heads, and the number of pigs sold was 127 thousand. It is also positive that, according to the official figures of that year, Ukraine was imported by 100,000 tons of meat and by - products, which had a positive impact on domestic production. So in Ukraine, let's say there's a billion 400 million left that haven't been exported abroad. At the same time, in the first five years, we have now taken stock of the cattle in January and there is a five - percent error in the number of cattle slaughtered in the population, or 350 thousand heads, which says that today the livestock accounting system is imperfect and needs improvement. In January, meat production increased by 20%, milk by 4 and 21 respectively. We would very much like to encourage honourable national deputies to make a decision on minimum purchase prices for milk and dairy products, to speed up the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Meat and Meat Act, to continue paying milk and meat taxes by the end of 2010. In the first place, adopt the Act amending the State Budget Act. the year introduced by Deputy Tomić, which provides for the clarification of the name of the budget programme for financial support for the production of animal and plant production and for the non-application of the provisions of article 27, paragraph 8, of the Budget Act. It's about the amount of budget support that depends on the actual amount of income of these enterprises. Oh. The provision of a spring-field work package with the necessary financial resources has become an imperfect monthly expenditure schedule for 2006. In the first half of the year, only 17% of the annual allocations are available for the Ministry's targeted programmes at a minimum of 60%. Unfortunately, the Ministry's proposal is out of the question. So we'd like to ask for a contribution in this direction, we need to allocate 540 million dollars by 1 March.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u74	By 1 March, please allocate 540 million dollars to pay grants per hectare of crops for a corresponding reduction in the next year. The negative impact on the activities of state-owned agricultural enterprises has also led to an increase in the government budget's share of income to 50%. This leads to unequal conditions with the private sector. We'd like to cancel this rule and restore the one that worked until 2004. Questions about the situation in the dairy market with Russia. There were two conversations between Presidents Yushchenka and Putin. President Putin's data is in line with his orders. There is now active work at the level of delegations, and Wednesday-four is scheduled to meet at the level of the ministers of agriculture. And I think this week the problem will be solved. I want to express my confidence that cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council will produce new fruits. The village, first of all, is waiting for a re-enactment program with a 30 percent cost of sophisticated technology. Ukraine, the Ukrainian village will not get out of its knees until we pass a law on directing the production of Ukrainian oil to the needs of the agricultural sector, and it will not be resolved at the legislative level on the production of bioethanol using it for mixed petrol. The younger generations won't understand us if we don't legislatively anchor the programme “The Rebirth of the Village — Young People’s Affairs”. It takes only 1 billion dollars a year to make it happen, but we're going to send 10,000 young people out of colleges every year, and we're going to give them 100,000 dollars for gardening and housekeeping. And this is going to grow up in every district every year with 20 modern cottages, and children's voices are going to ring. This will have a noticeable effect on the demographic situation and the infrastructure of our villages. We ask yours to support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u75	Yeah, let's sign up for a question. Please, 10 minutes on the board. Orzhachowski, get ready for Plitinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Alexander Petrovich! Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. We all remember well in the autumn of 2005, a difficult time when we were sowing seeds. We now see difficult weather conditions and difficult weather conditions. Still, we feel that Ukraine is ahead of the grain crisis. What amount has already been allocated to producers in accordance with the 2006 budget? If not, who will hold back the agrarian funding? And the second. How do you plan to build a policy on the development of bird complexes? Today, there is only a plant sector in the village, and animals have a single area. How do you say today that you feel for sure that high-value production will develop and so forth, including the animal industry? Or it's just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. There's no such thing as populism. The thing is, the village is aging, unfortunately, dying. And every year we see it, and it's going down in production there. And we're just taking into account today's real development of large-scale manufacturing, we have the increase that's going on. 111,000 tons added to the production of bird meat. This is so true. I was referring to today’s increase in pork production. This year, 20 percent of meat production is in this sector. And that's why we need to develop it as actively as possible. And this experience is not just Ukraine, and this, we see, is also our neighbors, who also saved some time ago, what we need in small-scale manufacturing, we can achieve the right kind of success. It's about a bird farm. I mean, they're quite successful this year. We also expect more than 20 percent of the increase in meat production, they are appropriate, they need to maintain the state support that is available today until the meat needs are met. By the way, we produced 400,000 tons last year, rounding up the bird’s meat. It's about the money. I showed you on the slide as a schedule for using the funds. It's not acceptable to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, but let's say it's not acceptable for peasants. If we have 1 billion 800 for four months -- December, November, October and September -- and the cost for the village to sow is today. The information was wrong. Some MPs have announced that 300 million have been allocated to the village in 45 days, and the ministry is not spending. That's not true. 11.3 by program, and the other costs, are just protected articles: salary, scholarships, you know how they are used, so we ask the Ministry of Finance today and everyone who needs to review the funding system monthly and, first of all, that by 1 March, we give 540 million to the peasants for the sown hectare of the winter crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u78	Plutinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Alexander Petrovich, I've listened very carefully to your speech, and I've come to think that we have, as it were, and we're fine in agriculture. But I'd like to ask you two questions. First, it's relative, which, if it doesn't appear to be a secret, which amount of meat sold last year came from abroad. How much is a ton or what amount? That's one question. And secondly, I'd like to ask you this kind of financial question. Are we the funds required for agriculture that are provided for in the 2006 Supreme Council budget law, or is there a violation by the Ministry of Finance or who is involved in allocating these funds? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Antonovich. I want to say that in 2004 the official import of meat and meat products in Ukraine was 300, I round up 300,000 tons of meat and meat products. Last year, this figure is 100,000 tons less than 200,000 tons. That's what was officially imported. Some say that more imported meat came in black, or smuggling. Well, let's say our personal observations that he wasn't imported anymore, because we know how he was imported in 2004, it was pretty open. After all, there was a lot of work going on last year to fight smuggling. And so those 100,000 tons that aren't imported, we haven't experienced any deficit, it's still a billion 400 million that didn't go abroad, but we've supported our manufacturer accordingly. Now we're watching, we're seeing smuggling, and not just smuggling, it's ready-made meat from Belarus because of the appropriate schemes with Moldova. In our view, it is now necessary to take steps to eliminate this tax regime for imports of this product from these countries. Sadly, I would like to say that in the last month, two illegal ships are now standing in Odessa. 150 tons of meat was kept in cars only last week. So this is saying that it's coming, and you all know that it's not getting caught. Regarding the budget. I want to say once again that we have the funds in the budget approved by the Supreme Council, in our view, after the Supreme Council approved them, they no longer belong to the Supreme Council, nor to the government, nor to the Ministry of Finance, nor any more, to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy -- these funds belong to the peasants. And that's why they have to get a penny's worth of peasants. Last year, 99.5 percent was allocated, as it wasn't difficult. And we don't have any complaints today that there are moments when the funds are being allocated on the road. If someone has such, say, facts, please give them. In the nine areas of the summation, people simply thanked that transparency was in the sphere. With regard to this year's budget, we already have the proper arrangements prepared, they were discussed yesterday and approved by the government committee, and on Wednesday they will be approved by the government, and now we have only one question that needs to be approximated, which I already talked about, to give to the peasants now for the spring-seat campaign, not in October-December months.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u81	Please, Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u82	Please give the word to Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u83	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Alexander Petrovich! I have two questions. First. You said we had enough sugar before the new crop. But who, once again, is turning the artificial sugar crisis in Ukraine, when the price is now five or more dollars. And the second question. You have a very good account of the growth of the head, but statistics show that only the head of the pig has been kept on the level and something has grown, and the rest is minus. So explain these two questions, if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. It's about sugar. I've really given the numbers, we've made over 1 million. 900 thousand. Tones and that's the largest amount of sugar in years and that's what's been going on. I'm not saying that maybe someone didn't fix something. We have such facts, revealed, in any case. Our need for sugar is covered by our sugar production by December 1. You know well that sugar is now owned by three major companies, and there are others near them smaller and all nine. When did the cane come up, what happened? Argentina, which produces 261 million dollars. Trostins, 186 million This year, I decided to set off bioethanol for production. The same is true in Australia, Brazil, and the same is true of the U.S. buying a large quantity. And today, even if we had dismantled new factories that were built two years ago in Italy and we were offered to buy at a cheap price to replace our old ones, Italy has refused us today because they are also returning to sugar production and sugar beet. And when this whole price went down, of course, our manufacturers saw it and immediately played it. And the small amount of sugar that's in the agrarian fund today, if you throw it into the market now, it won't save the situation, because we can still expect more difficult during the cooking time. That's why I've been talking about this today, and it's very unfortunate that we had a bill last year that we didn't find support in the Supreme Council for licensing and wholesale sugar. We need to do this now, because the sugar is massively exported right now. Because the price in Russia is higher than we have and so we don't lose our own sugar. So now we have to stop this trend and then, accordingly, it's going to go down in price in our market. Now it is relative to the head. You may not have noticed when I was talking about what was also a great surprise to us: When we see the head, we see production and its proportion does not correspond to what is given in the courtyards of the population. We started in January months that let's count the cattle in December-January, what's happening in the peasant's yard, no one's counted them for five years. And when you start counting, it's a very different number than it's always reported. And let's say you could talk to CSU, they say we had a 5 percent error. Why is that? Because only 0.5 percent of the courts are taken to control them from, let's say, six million yards and so this account is unaccounted for and you just can't see it. That's the truth, and I said it. But the fact that we've grown active in large-scale manufacturing and it's growing today, I've informed you about it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u86	Yes, dear fellows, time is up. Alexander Petrovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u88	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Arseny Petrovich, how long do you need? 5, 10, how much? Let's take an average of five minutes. Thank you. There's no objection, dear colleagues, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u89	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable national deputies, may I add to what the Minister of Agrarian Policy has said to inform you about the balance of goods in the country today and about the price situation that is expected in the food markets. The first basic postulate that I wanted to prove to you that there is a demand for supply in Ukraine today. This applies to virtually the entire category of food. The second one I'd like to bring to your attention. It's at a price. We're going to talk frankly about the fact that food prices as a matter of fact, and prices as a whole in the real economy are going to have a reasonable trend towards a steady increase. However, what is most likely to grow will be at a level not higher than 2005. In some areas of food processing, this growth is going to exceed and this is going to be due to the fact that the price of gas, which was 84 dollars in transit last year, is going to increase, and so it's going to have an objective effect on the cost of production. However, I would like to point out that at the cost of production, the average price of gas does not exceed 6 percent. So the change in price parameters is not going to be more than 2 percent over the current year. The basic things that need to be addressed today are the preparations for spring-field work. Usually it's always scandalous stories with fuel-oil materials. And using this high rostrum, I'd like to address, first of all, the peasants and the processing, and everyone who's involved in the agro-industrial complex. The so - called alcohol fuel, which has been declared for quite a long time, but which no one has ever seen so much, is unlikely to do so in this year and is likely to be of no use. We have to be honest that today's price pattern is the most favourable for farmers to come out with fuel-oil materials. For the first time in the last year, export duties from the Russian Federation fell from $180 to $160 for the first time in the last year. Pay per brand fell by 9 percent. So today diesel is worth about 3,750 dollars. This price is absolutely acceptable, and the government's task is to move the budget bill to maximize the financing of the peasants and allow them to purchase the PMN at no later than 2-3 weeks, at no later than an unfathomable and incomprehensible tax price. The second question. It's a matter of mineral fertilizer. It's the same thing with minions. As long as we have old gas tariffs, there is an urgent need to absorb the relevant mineral fertilizers, take full advantage of all the financial resources, get the money to compensate the interest rate on credits for the APC, and to prepare as much as possible and buy the value of goods for crops. Question three. And here it probably refers to the importance of the APC as a whole. We predict that in the current year an agro-industrial complex will play an extremely high role in gross domestic product. The global price environment for metal and the world export environment for us today is not as favourable as it was in 2004. Thus, the village should become a priority sector in 2006 and one of the main drivers of the growth of gross domestic product. I'll let you know that the results of the first month's work in January's GDP are positive and it's 0.9 percent. At the same time, the village paid 3.3 percent, compared with 1.4 in the previous year. Two questions about prices. Usually, we have situations at the price of bread, at the price of sugar, for other animal products. Let's report that the government of Ukraine is not planning administrative price containment measures. In view of the fact that we view these measures as completely ineffective, this is the first time. Second, they create some sort of hysteria in society. And thirdly, we are pursuing today the idea of containing prices exclusively by market methods. Which is understood by market methods. I'll stop at the sugar question. In Ukraine today, there is a sugar commodity balance. It is estimated that sugar is between two and a half million. I want to assure everyone that the government won't send the Antimonopoly Committee, it won't send the Price Control to lower the price of sugar. But in that case, if the sugar owners pick up the price of sugar over three eighty, the government will immediately open bilateral agreements with Belarus, Russia and Georgia to reduce the price of sugar. This will also apply to quotas. I'm going to emphasize that there will be such measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u90	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u91	Such measures will only be taken if the price goes up. After we have held consultations with sugar associations, we can guarantee today that the price of sugar will not increase. And so the government will not open the quota, nor will Belarus, Russia and Georgia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u92	Yes. Arsenius Petrovich finished his speech. What questions do we have before? You don't? Is it? Sign up, three minutes, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Zara Katusheva, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u93	We've actually heard the tales of Shaherezada today, shown us these graphs that grow the cattle, grow the production of sugar. In life, we see that we will soon have to bring cows, pigs and birds into the Beautiful Book. I'm struck by the fact that the Minister of Economics is looking at what the consequences will be after the alleged avian flu that was in Crimea? You know, there's an eastern saying, "How many don't say 'halva' and there's no sugar in the mouth." It's growing, we have to live better, and in fact yesterday I went to the market, meat 50 greaves, sugar five. You say one thing and life shows another.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u94	Let me answer that. I'd like to repeat some aspects of my own speech. The first thing I said at prices is that prices are going to rise reasonably. The second thing I said was on the balance sheet. Today, the balance of goods is fully secured. Third. It's about the bird's group. Avian influenza was mainly related to the private sector alone. You know, in Ukraine, none of the major productions were closed. And you, as a member of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, if I'm not mistaken, know that, for example, the Simferopol bird factory is working well to this day and has normal performances. Thus, the bird population will not be affected by the decline in production, such as in the same bird industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u95	Oleg Yuhnowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u96	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnovski, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! What do you think prevents the government from promptly processing legislation to comply with existing Ukrainian laws, first of all, on State support for Ukraine's agriculture, specifically to implement the provisions of the State Budget 2006 Act, so that the funds for the peasants can reach today? First question. The other one. Your attitude towards the initiatives of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to introduce an administrative minimum price for milk without economic support for this price? And the next. Actually, I want to thank you. You're not the only minister who's actively cooperating today with the sector associations that actually work in the agricultural field. Unlike our home ministry, which now evicts basic branch associations from the Greenhouse,1 Ukrcukor, Ukriliaprom, and so on. How do you feel about this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u97	Let me ask you a first question. Yesterday, on a government committee, the Ministry of Economics, at the very least, demanded all three draft decrees on financing the village. Thus, tomorrow a package of documents will be issued to the government, which will create a legal basis for the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act in part of the financial support of the APC. The second question is the administrative impact on prices. Although we share a lot of common ground with the MinACP, what is involved in setting minimum prices for milk is not my belief that such an installation will have a real economic effect. Thus, so far, the Ministry of Economics has not made a decision, and I think we will find a common position with the Ministry of Economics in the negotiation process. Thirdly, with regard to associations, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has decided to sign a joint memorandum with all associations, and we think that within the next two weeks, such a memorandum will be signed because the draft has already been sent to the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u98	Yes, and the last question. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Vittizhna constituency of Yuri Karmazin. Dear Mr. Minister! I took it with pleasure -- that prices would grow reasonably because they don't grow reasonably, and wages don't grow reasonably with anyone. But I wanted to ask you. Please tell me that you can use as a minister before restoring what is dismantled in Hersonian more than 204 kilometers of water, 204 kilometers -- I stress -- that this is now going to make things worse for the next crop and can be used, and that there are no measures taken, or that you can see that no measures have been taken to stop the rising prices of sugar, which is absolutely not economically justified. And why didn't the Reserve work right away to stop the price at the level of four bracelets, even if it was economically justified. People today do not understand what is happening in the state and whether we have any ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u100	I'll start with the plumbers. I don't think we can address the issue of pipelines without a comprehensive analysis of the APC as a whole. If you're talking about Herson, then Herson is a risk farming area. If it's a risk farming area, you have to look at the structure of the crops in general. So let me get rid of the APC lecture functions. I'm only asking. Questions for sugar. I'm reporting. Oppa sugar grew to 3.93 last week. We met the Baranowski Association with the sugar producers and explained quite briefly and clearly: if the speculative wave is not broken, then, first, there will be an open market to import another sugar. After that, Opt fell to 3.80 today. And I can assure you here as a minister that it will not grow up above 3.80. That's what the Reserve is about. I'm reporting. The government meeting tomorrow will adopt a plan to refresh the state reserve. And the main blow to refreshments, that is to sell food products that now have a decisive impact on prices in the first and second quarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u101	Thank you. Please sit down, Arseni Petrovich. Ivan Fedorovich Tomic from the committee. Ivan Fedorovich, how long do you need? Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u102	John Tomic, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, members of the government, national deputies, respected Ukrainian farmers! During the fourth call in the Supreme Council, the issue of the Ukrainian village is discussed for the seventh time, which shows that there is no comprehensive action since the prolonged socio-economic crisis in the village, which is permanently reflected in food crises in the meat market or sugar market, bread that is being beaten, both by the national producer and by the consumer. The price of such fluctuations for a Ukrainian peasant over 15 years is estimated at 155 billion dollars. This requires an end, and in full scope, the legislative base is adopted by the Supreme Council’s fourth call, which is based on the Law on State Support for Agricultural Workers and a number of other laws. With the implementation of valid laws and regulations of the Supreme Council in the village, there will be a past practice where a Ukrainian peasant is helped to sow authorized ones, or the government acts as a sower. Our main task is to create conditions for a peasant to grow bread and bread, on this basis stability in the country. Dear voters, 40 days before the election, it is difficult to expect dramatic changes. At the same time, on March 26, the electoral marathon will be completed and the day will come for the farmer who feeds the year. Understanding this responsibility and the situation in the village today, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations proposes the following: first, to use all branches of government measures in accordance with the current legislation on stability in the preparation and conduct of spring-field work, fuel prices. Mineral fertilizers, spare parts, and other essential resources for Ukrainian peasants. Second, given the situation of the winters, the situation is not simple enough and not only the ice creams are to blame in this situation, but primarily the prices of the bread market in 2005, where the farmer was before the choice: to sow or not to sow, but the proposals of the committee under the law on State support for agriculture for the release in June of 900 million bracelets for intervention in the grain market were broken and about the misunderstanding of support for the implementation of the law. Taking into account this situation in order to prevent the import of bread in 2006, which is unacceptable for Ukraine to agrarian. The committee proposes to allocate direct support per hectare for the sowing of the winter of 540 million dollars by 1 March 2006, and to anticipate from the 2006 State Budget for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy in the first quarter 40 per cent, and in the first half 60 per cent, not as proposed by the Ministry of Finance. And direct support clearly and clearly needs to be oriented as it did in accordance with the State Support Act for the first time, and was able to be budgeted in 2006 without any bureaucratic obstacles. Third, with the aim of stabilizing the dairy market according to the milk and milk products law, to provide farmers with all forms of ownership, including nearly three million individual farmers, with a subsidy per kilogram of processed milk at a price of not less than one bracelet of 20 copies per kilogram, while ensuring that prices are monitored by reprocessing enterprises, since not all companies are export-oriented products, but the price is lower. Fourth, to make a contribution to the processing of livestock products, taking into account, of course, the problems faced by the avian influenza industry and the adoption of law number 9021. Fifth, to make changes to the 2006 budget, to anticipate an increase in spending on spring-field jobs, and a loss of credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u103	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u104	Honorable members of the government, distinguished national MPs! These and other proposals aimed at stabilizing the agro-industry complex are set out in the Supreme Council ruling of 9033-d, which the Agrarian Policy Committee, which I am asking you to support this decision, is a draft ruling as the Supreme Council's ruling. I am convinced that these actions will take a concrete step towards stability in the agri-industrial complex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Sit down, Ivan Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Let's take 15 minutes to talk. Is there no objection? Give me an hour. Come on, for God's sake. Let's do the factions now. Those who signed up. Is Ivan Rishnak there? Ivan Mikhailovich Rishnjak of the National Party. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u106	Ivan Rishnyak, 162 constituency, Sumstina, “Litvina People’s Block”. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are. To be honest, when, knowing the situation in the country, knowing the situation in the country, when the minister was going to this rostrum, I felt sorry for him in a purely human way, what could be said about the village. But after listening to him, such reliable serious information was positive, I felt sorry for the people who live in the village only after he said that, in spite of everything, the village was getting old and dying. And it really is. But on the subject. In discussing the problems of the APC and the preparation of spring-field work, the People's Block of Lithuania wants an answer from agrarianism and government to a number of questions. Why is the head of the cattle shrinking and the amount of subsidies increasing? Why have farmers not received a single copy of the State’s principal financial instrument for the addresses of the sower’s acre of grains, the government’s payments for each of the meats produced and sold, and the gallon of milk? How predictable is the fraction of oil products in the cost of plant and animal production, and how can this crisis be mitigated? Why, in gardening, grapes, and berries, the system of budgetary financing is built on the basis of the manual distribution of funds, that is, selectively. Why, in the 2006 fiscal year, when 150 million dollars were increased in compensation for the use of credit, banks stopped or nearly stopped lending to farmers even with excellent credit stories. Where a systematic analysis of the financial and economic situation, monitoring and forecasting of agricultural markets and the crises in God-given land are yet to be expected, because the talk about Europe does not yet mean that the farmer in the country knows quotas, percentages, amounts of compensation and subsidies, taking into account regional characteristics by 2013. That's where the Ukrainian village is headed. Why do we have savage prices, low prices for meat, grain, and milk? This leads the village to full surrender. But in general, what can we talk about when the government does not have a clear programme for the development of the APC today. At least the Ministry would take up the weapons program that was run by the faction of the People's Party. Finally, I would like to say that in 2006 the village will not become a full year for the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u107	Mikola Komar, “Regions of Ukraine”. Get ready for the Silencer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u108	Respectable presiding, respected colleagues, deeply respected people of Ukraine. The factions of the Party of the Regions have had to note with concern and pain the fact that our country's agriculture has been brought to a close in the past year. The search for solutions has changed semi-professionally shaky. Unless urgent measures are taken to save the situation today, it may be just too late tomorrow. What major challenges must be overcome first? Ukraine is in the present, devastating state of the trade war with Russia. This is because the status of the Russian Federation as a strategic partner of our country has not been abolished. We are not going to be lawyers of Russia, but the tension of relations has led, including not to the professional actions of the executive and its agrarian bloc. Instead of a timely response, a prompt study of the situation and action, there have been populist accusations that lie in the policy, not the economy. The unwillingness to seek compromise has led to a deepening of the already difficult state of the domestic meat sector. The ban on the importation of livestock products into the Russian Federation has a negative impact on the agricultural sector due to the reduction in the purchase of raw materials by processing enterprises. In retail trade, the price of milk and milk products has not decreased, i.e. rural populations and agriculture are mainly affected. Without expecting effective action from the current authorities, the leader of the Party of Regions, Viktor Janukovic, is taking steps to resolve the issue at the level of inter-party relations with the One Russia party. But we have the right to expect adequate action from the authorities. The next critical problem. According to the official data of the APC, 47 per cent of its own resources are available for spring work. In view of the available credit resources, the shortfall is more than 2.5 billion dollars. However, it is not yet clear how much the price of diesel and fertilizer will increase. It exacerbates the need to move large areas of the winter. The stock of seeds for this farm is insufficient, owing to the lack of budgetary funding for the State Seed Fund in 2005 the Government is unable to remedy the situation. The Academy of Agricultural Sciences estimates that the 2006 crop forecast for wheat will be no more than two or three million tons, with a minimum of six million tons. Artificially created problem requires immediate solution. The members of the Party of the Regions strongly demand that the continuing responsibility of the Government allow the village to carry out a full-fledged crop. Our second demand for power. Addressing the causes and threat of another food crisis in Ukraine, both bread and sugar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u109	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian People’s Party. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u110	Ukrainian People's Party, Kostenka and Ivy Block, Paul Mokchan. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Not likely the most significant problem for Ukraine’s future, such as the problem of Ukrainian villages and Ukrainian lands. The agricultural sphere and its development have still not been reflected in the documents that had to be developed by the government that came along with President Yushchenk. We haven't seen this document, and we are, in fact, still deprived of the possibilities that would allow us to form a vector for the development of our agricultural sector. I would like to ask you why this has happened, that for a long time we have only one statement, one assurance and one discussion every year, which John Fedorovich Tomic called a ritual. Why still Ukraine has not determined its own course of development, or one imposed today by latifundists and large enterprises, so - called investors, for 15 years. Or the natural course of farming when a Ukrainian peasant becomes the master of his land. Over the past 15 years, the authorities have done everything they can to destroy the Ukrainian farmer and the Ukrainian peasant in order to possess these lands. It is not a secret that today the acts of land ownership, the possession of our dear lands, are citizens of foreign nations. Why did we actually secure our own markets? I have a lot of questions. Why the government still has not offered a program of building or producing and producing its own tractors, its own electric motors, its own tractors, its own tractors, its own lamps, or other high - cost and necessary machinery. When it comes to sporadic crises, they are due to the fact that our meat - milk industry was privatized by Russian business. Today, they actually took this moment politically and provoked this crisis. Why our markets today are open to foreign goods, including Russian goods. Why we feed in sanatoriums and other farms and in other areas by other people’s products. Look at the yogurt coming into Ukraine. Why are these purchase prices through the middleman led to absurdity, to the lowest in the world, the lowest level. Why? It's a lot of questions about government and it's the Ukrainian People's Party that clearly tells us that we have clear programs for the outcome of this and changes in the orientations that follow today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u111	Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u112	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! How many promises have been made to peasants and almost none have been fulfilled. Instead, corruption continues in the upper echelons of power, non-professionalism of government personnel, conflict with Russia, and deepening economic and social crises. The agro-industrial complex was never supported by the state, and unfortunately, adverse natural conditions have been added, which have become harmful to the winter crops. Over the last two years, the cost of one hectare of relays in connection with the energy carrier's expansion, minblorius, spare parts, and technicians has increased by 500 to 700 dollars per hectare. Counting 15 million hectares [15 million ha] within Ukraine, it has increased by 12 billion. The budget for this year is only $1 billion. There are two fundamental questions: for what resources and at what cost the village will run the spring campaign. For a single hectare of sowers, 2,000 dollars must be spent to make a small profit. During the winter season, farmers spent 400 dollars per hectare. The government plans to compensate 500 million dollars per hectare in connection with force majeure. In other words, it's a mess, a dead park. A peasant is afraid to raise his fuel prices, his minibars, his poisons. Unfortunately, the state’s criminality waits for the taboo to be removed for sale. In view of the disastrous situation in the area of secret patience, the villagers await the decision of Kabmin when the Reserve Fund has already allocated the funds that have come from the sale, even though the “Crevices” without these incursions in the countryside will be lost as such and will not help the 450 million people budgeted for the gasification of the village, 250 for the watershed, and computerization of rural schools. All of this is necessary, of course, but without jobs, without high wages, the pipes are rusted and the schools are abandoned. 5,000 who dream of giving the graduates a government official to raise a branch is a clean water campaign, and now in the villages you can buy the whole street for that kind of money. And the last. The villagers supported the election of current President Yushchenk, with only hope that the grains they grow will have as high a price in the market as they did at his premiere. Regrettably, the village has been heavily deceived in its hopes, and for 2006, 2006 will be the year of the loss of the village, not its rebirth. Thank you. Yes. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u113	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition bloc “NO YES!” [[united]] It seems to me that what is going on in Parliament today will have little effect, because on the first question of gas supply we have not heard anything, except that energy security is committed to Rosukrbratswattbayenergo and nothing else, the responsibility of no one. Nothing like that has been heard from sowers in preparation, since the subject is completely undiscovered. Perhaps on the subject of “Copengagen and Pigs” we would have heard something bigger, but not that topic today is being heard in Parliament. The second time the sugar crisis begins, when the adventurous anti-Russian foreign policy has led the country into a major socio-economic crisis, there is no reason to believe that any of the government's representatives who perform their duties have any reason. Not only do former ministers perform their duties but, contrary to the laws and numerous promises of Victor Yushchenk, they are engaged in the campaign. And the question is, what in the government's bed today did the free Minister of Fuel and Energy of Plachkov do if the President trusts and executes the Constitution? And I'm going to remember that last year, not in the worst climate conditions in terms of agriculture, has actually stopped. There was a zero increase in agricultural production. Grain production decreased by 9 percent, resulting in both a reduction in the harvest area and a decrease of 8 percent. This is an objective assessment of the effectiveness of agrarian politics and of all the orange authorities. In 2005 she was very careless. Despite all the fuss about sending some authorized ministers, commissioners, and other foolish steps to the villages. Instead of professional work, there was a huge pianist campaign. You all know the damage the ice cream will do. At the same time, according to the Statistics Committee, the sown areas under winter and the grain for green feed are less than 18 percent of the past. Osmina is sown on grain for 19 less than last year’s. So what kind of crops can we talk about in the future? The deterioration of the soybean conditions is largely related to past price policies in the grain market. The unhelpful, unprofessional activity of the government has led to a fall in purchase prices and has actually put the villagers ahead of the choice — to sow or not to sow. The prime minister of agrarian politics said a few days ago that Ukrainian agro-enterprises were provided with spending 47 percent on autumn-field jobs. I don't mention any more about fuel oil exploration. So, in summary, one can conclude: in the agricultural sphere, in preparation for the village to be incompetent, unprofessional, opaque and unfair orange power causes chaos and disorder in all other areas — industrial, construction, transportation and external trade. We heard nothing good about the sower today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u114	Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u115	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The real state of the country’s APC and Ukrainian village does not meet the strategic objectives of the formation of Ukrainian statehood. I think that these sentences say everything. Adding to that existing system of agrarian management in this state of affairs is a futile hope. Actually, our faction, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, is concerned about the situation in the village. At some point, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become a hostage. And the question is, why? Maybe there's not enough laws? No, the Supreme Council has accepted them more than 100. So the legislative base is. So what's the reason? In our view and deep conviction, the government of Ukraine is operating in this area without system. Most of the time, it shuts down the crisis. For example, avian influenza, a gas problem, a meat-milk crisis, a grain problem in turn, and, God forbid it becomes a crisis. I'm very afraid, and we're worried about that faction. It is not enough for the Ministry and the Government to develop technical regulations and standards and harmonize them to the requirements of the European Union and the Russian Federation. Not by chance today is this meat-milk crisis. One more. Everyone remembers, in particular, that the Soviet laws voted on the principle: a step forward — two steps back. To be specific, the Ministry of Agriculture’s policy was, in fact, a barrier to their acceptance. Now, when, according to the people, the ministry’s leadership is seeking legal protection from both the WTO and the parliament. And one more thing. This is the absence of the necessary financial and economic mechanisms for the use of budgetary resources. They tend to be developed with a great deal of lateness. What is more, the government is working like a swan, cancer, and hammer, which will not give to the Minagropolitics, and Minfin is rejecting and vice versa. Now for the suggestions. We need to urgently develop and approve the financing mechanism for the agri-industrial complex, not for a month, but for a year, so that we don't get sick. The other one. We need to get close to funding from the second quarter to the first. This has already been discussed today. And the third. Of course, the funding mechanism for one hectare of sown grains will work. With regard to the Ukrainian Agricultural Strategic Development Program. We have a strategic development programme entitled "The Gift of Ukraine". She's practically been an expert at all the ministries of our Cabinet of Ministers. I think it's timely, and of course we can solve a lot of questions for the benefit of our peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u116	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Get ready, Usachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u117	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, voters! The government’s report on the problems of the APC has recently been initiated in the wake of the pressure from the MP’s corps. The reason is to ignore the executive power of the previous proposals of deputies, including the factions of communists. An orange team in village policy has shown incompetence, a lack of state resources, to make economic and social difficulties impossible. The current agricultural crisis is the result of the capitalisation of the village, the destruction of the traditional collective forms of farming for the people. The Communist faction sees similar reform as a state crime, and its initiators must be punished justly. In recent years there has been a genocide against 16.5 million rural populations. Of the 5 million former APC workers, 3 million lost their jobs and social protection. Today, some 8 million Ukrainians are wandering the world in search of a better destiny. Of the 34 million hectares of arable land, 40 percent of fertile blacks are not processed. In the fall of 2005, it further worsened the conditions of the fields, reduced the number of people who wanted to invest personal money in crops, and halted the activity of hundreds of companies. There are alarming signals from places about the government's irresponsible policy on the village to stabilize fuel oil prices, provide technology, fertilizers, provide investment funds for the gasification of villages, cause for an unjustified decrease in import duties on foreign products. The pre-election slogan of the orange team “New Power quickly stabilizes the situation in the village!” is filled with concrete meaning: quiet and stable as a cemetery. On February 8, in a radio address to the people, the President stated that 8 billion dollars had been allocated for the needs of the villages this year. Communists, on the other hand, claim that at least 10 percent of GDP should be allocated to the village’s needs. However, even the amount referred to as production needs will be directed at a better rate of one third. We think it's not a year to announce the village, but a program to support it through procurement and supply, to set up, to form a material and technical reserve, to provide affordable credit. In a situation where the head of animals and birds declines in the decision of the Supreme Council to introduce a moratorium on imports of meat, birds from abroad, the President used the veto, while worrying about the entry into the WTO, to insult Ukrainian goods and to promote the import of products from Europe and the United States. The solution today is a grant from the National Budget of National Birds Complexes. Minegropolitics are known to manage the production of pig by Danish technology, as if Ukraine does not have its own experience in animal production. The President's team should mention Kobzar's words: “Teach the stranger, and do not turn your back on your own.” No way to cooperate. What is it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is it possible?Oh, my God! I'm asking you to give me time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u118	Yuri Anatolyevich, don't interfere with your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u119	Without the possibility of cooperation, the creation of large-scale farms, the MTS village will not be reborn. That's why Communist MPs made legislative proposals about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u120	Twenty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u121	on the creation of the Ministry of Rural Engineering, initiated, and on February 15th, parliamentary hearings will be held: “Current problems of irrigation and submerging”, which are to trigger 15 million hectares of meliorrhial land. Time requires an unsatisfying assessment of the government, the Ministry of the APC. Time calls for the restoration of national authority, government, and national control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u122	Larissa Usachenko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u123	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! In the 2006 budget, there were three times the cost of spring-field work than last year. After careful analysis of the cost of resources consumed by agricultural production, it is necessary to do everything possible to provide timely material and technical supplies for spring and field work, to purchase agricultural products for mineral goods and petroleum products, the necessary technology. It is important to look for new market outlets, to regulate and ensure price stability in the market for fuel-oil materials, to increase wages for agricultural workers for further efficient work for the benefit of society and the state. State support for farmers and private farms, which solve a significant proportion of the social problems of the Ukrainian village, is essential. Taking into account the scientificly-recommended periods of crop planting and the available material and technical provisions, clear work plans should be made for the implementation of the spring and field work package in agricultural enterprises of all forms of ownership. Carry out joint exit meetings to study the state of readiness of farms for spring and field work and optimize the structure of the soybean areas with the participation of farm managers and subcontractors. It is very important to create new and support existing specialized higher education institutions, to call for the training and training of real agricultural professionals needed for the human resources of rural areas. Of course, the first countrywide comprehensive program of support and development of the Ukrainian village and its major achievements must be properly implemented by all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u124	Yes, Yuri Carmazin. We're going to have our last speech and we're going to be clear. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u125	Yury Karmazin, the only-named Yury Karmazin Block. Honorable representatives of the government. I want to ask you: how can we think that we have everything in line with the legislation and how can we think that we are satisfied and that we are satisfied if we are unable by all the government, the entire Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to stop what was happening after the destruction of the irrigation systems? I've already referred to the question that was dismantled only in the Herson area of 204 kilometers of water, derived from the irrigation of 46,000 hectares of land, to the state, caused damage to more than 100 million dollars. So what do we have to use now, so let's use it to make sure that these measures are adequate so that those people aren't cursed there? That's the first question and I'm asking the whole government and the Attorney General, because there the Attorney General of the District was also covering up all these destructions. Now tell me, please. How you can treat the government when you write and show that the technologies of the future are invented. Microwave technology that gives, uses, to increase crop yields from 5 to 33 percent, grain beans to 50%, Greeks and sunflowers to 12 to 18%, soy to 20%. up to 28%. And I can show you what people write, here's an enterprise that writes an "implementation act," and I show you that mustard is 49% growth, sunflower is 65% crop supplement, winter barley is 32% crop supplement. It doesn't have to be added, much more fuel to be spent, only the brains to be used. I wrote to President Kuchma -- zero, I write to Yushchenk -- even greater than zero, because if the head of the Administration had answered before, it is no longer known who would answer. I want to say, what, do we all have spits for science? Why aren't you using science? And how can you say that when you're interested in importing foreign pesticides and other chemicals? Why can't these technologies be applied now? I was talking to Tomic. I was talking to you. Have I brought scientists to your office? I brought it in. I asked you to help me, please put science through the ministries -- one, two, three. Guys, I'm asking you, first of all, work, of course. It's not a good job. But let's make a difference. I'm showing you how to change the situation and you don't want to hear it. So I'm calling from this rostrum, and I'm calling the President: let's not say that the village is dying, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-14-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, consider the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? in the agro-industrial sector and the state of preparation for spring-field work has been completed. There's a draft decision, there's two. I think, in this way, your honor, you might want to step forward, because we're not going to make a decision right now. Thus, the approach is to assign a committee to work with the Cabinet of Ministers on Tuesday, when we have a plenary meeting, to adopt a document. One, file one. Now, you know that. We will then vote as different grades were. If the committee doesn't support it, then we will vote on the basis that the assessments will be, that is, in order of the democratic procedure. No warning? The Ministry doesn't object to this approach? We're done. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. We'll make the decision in the next plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously we should consider another issue: the establishment of a temporary special commission for the monitoring of electoral legislation. We discussed it, we were working on a draft decision. Perhaps we will accept it. Is it now possible to assign this commission to work, and then we formalize its status by making an appropriate decision? Why don't we vote now? Let's mobilize, invite the national MPs, vote, let them work. This will benefit us in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the question of the creation of a temporary special commission for the monitoring of electoral legislation. Registration number 9097. Please vote. [[13:11:45]] For 190 Come on. Dear colleagues, I think, let's mobilize now, please, come on. I'm voting to go back to the draft Supreme Council ruling, registration number 9097. Please vote. [[13:12:23]] For the 220. Let's look at the factions. Come on. “Regions of Ukraine” – 12, Communists – 54, National Party – 26, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Block Timoshenko – 25, SPU – 17, National Block – 20, SPDU(O) – 8, Ukrainian People's Party – 10, “Rebirth” – 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 11, “Reforms and Orders” – 6, “Ukrainian” – 0, non-fractional – 7. Once again, I am voting for the return to the draft decree, registration number 9097. [[13:13:19]] For 231 Yes, we've returned to the hearing. Now, dear fellows, I put to the vote the inclusion now in the agenda and the decision-making process. [[B in m in s a l in]] Involvement and decision-making, then we will vote separately. What are you, respectable colleagues? Here comes the vote. Please vote. [[13:13:47]] For 212 [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, well, we're voting for inclusion in the agenda, please. Come on, dear fellows, let's mobilize. Please. [[13:14:16]] For 236 We want to, we can if we want. Now I'm voting on the draft order, registration number 9097. Please vote. [[13:14:41]] For 233 I'll take the order. Thank you, dear colleagues. Now for the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the National Deputies of the Republic of Hubsky Bogdan, Edina Alexander, Constantine Eugena, Kuzmenko Petra, Osika Sergya, Sigala Eugena as part of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc Timoshenko, the political parties of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Thus, honourable colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Consider yours. During the week, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. Tomorrow at 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings "Current problems of irrigation, submerging and flooding in Ukraine" will begin. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on February 21, 2006. Thank you.
