ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV sets, and radio audiences. 18 today, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is held on Wednesday. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Enable, enable the "Council" system. Four hundred and thirty-six deputies have fixed their presence in the session room. The morning session is open. Today, as you know, meetings are held up to 14 hours, and there are still deputies on committees and factions. And today there are particularly interesting, complex questions about how to fight corruption, and so forth. I would ask you very carefully to consider these issues and to adjust to constructive work. Meanwhile, today is the birthday of national deputy Korniychuk Evgen Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome him. We wish for success in all its fields of activity, including the legislative sphere. According to article 25 of the Rules, today we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, and messages to the national deputies. So I'd like to ask those who would like to sign up for this procedure. Taran, please. No, he is. Taran just walked. Please. After him, Jereshko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u2	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Today, there is a gathering of Ukrainian Writers' Associations in Ukraine, and I want to welcome Ukrainian writers from the Yulia Timoshenko faction, from the Fatherland party, and from their convention. I would also like to welcome this momentous event of everyone in Ukraine who is hurt by his native word, who still believes that Ukraine will be Ukraine, not the territory that the Ukrainians once lived in. I would also like to point out that honourable colleagues that Ukrainian writers have always been at the forefront of the liberation movement for the freedom and independence of our Ukraine, and as no one else has ever experienced all the abuse and mistrust of the Communist regime. The shot-out Ukrainian writers until the 20th year of the so-called Yellow Revolution, the Ukrainian writers sunk on a barge in the White Sea, the Ukrainian writers destroyed in Stalin's time, the Barrys, and today, and when he disbelieved in the Siberian camps of Basil Stus. But even today, Ukrainian writers have pitiful pensions, and today Ukrainian writers, like the entire Ukrainian people, are freezing in this so-called “hot season” when people are frozen in rooms today, and the government is unable to solve even such a basic issue as heating, and today we have that in Ukraine, for ten Russian books on a book network, there is only one Ukrainian book. I want to say that the government of Yulia Timoshenko has allocated for the development of the Ukrainian state language, that was the first time, 30 million dollars. Today, this figure is reduced by 10 million bracelets. And what I want to say is that in Russia, to develop a Russian language that's not at risk, you have to look at it on the Internet, you have 1 million dollars or 5 million dollars. And so in this situation, I would urge you, honourable colleagues, honourable parliamentarians, at least in the budget to support the demands of Ukrainian writers. These are requirements to help with the printing work, so as to help the English language. Because the condition in which Ukrainian writing is today is pitiful. I want to remind you of John Frank, who said that the Ukrainian people, as a paralytic, are at a crossroads between a civilized Europe and a totalitarian Russia. And we have to make sure that Ukraine is a free country, because without a free independent Ukraine, there will be no civilised Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u3	Writers get cold, so they don't write. Igor Jerezko, please. Prepare Sweden. Microphone, please, heresy. Petruk says, that's what I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u4	Mikola Petruk, Timoshenko’s Yulia Block Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to your attention the address of the participants in the rally, which is now under the walls of the Supreme Council, the military and internal affairs officials, the veterans of the forces and their families. Honourable National MPs, a major concern among active and released military personnel, have called for a draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget. Not taking into account the difficult social and moral situation of active military personnel, workers, pensioners, veterans of power and their families in preparing draft budgets and other documents that limit our rights and freedoms, leads us to believe that the authorities rely on discipline, humility, tolerance, patriotism and other qualities that characterize this type of population. Indeed, this is true, but a study of the situation in military groups, public organizations, and families who are active and released from the supply of military personnel shows that they are at the critical limit of being able to endure and to accept further the situation. We state that the substantial number of provisions of the State Budget project contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine and other valid laws of Ukraine, and we demand that you do not allow the deterioration of the level of social protection of military personnel, veterans and members of their families, for which to remove from the law, from the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007 articles 38, 40, 41, 61, 74, paragraphs 15, 16, 23, 28, 33, 37, 51, 55, 69, 70 of which reduce the size of social guarantees, such as those in contravention of the Law on Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, as well as the suspension of the transfer of pensions and medical services from the force ministries in accordance with the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Health. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has previously repeatedly recognized similar standards as unconstitutional, but they are once again proposed by the government in the above - mentioned articles. There is the practice of undoing or narrowing the benefits and guarantees to war veterans, wartime participants, eliminating the consequences of an accident on CHAES, veterans, pensioners, and active military personnel. We demand that the practice of such “experiments” be stopped, in paws, confident that with your support and assistance, honourable national MPs, we and our families will be socially protected and with confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Victor Schwetz, get ready for Kamchatny. Is there a Sweden? Please, who? Tomenka? We'll pass it on to Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention on behalf of our team to a very difficult problem, and I would like to say a critical problem in the system of local self-government. The work of our national deputies in the past week has demonstrated that today, the local councils are the hostages of absolute non-professionalism and lack of preparation for the government in general and for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy in particular, for the heating season. I didn't find a 24-year-old civil servant who would confirm that in Ukraine in Soviet times and during independence, Ukraine's gas did not prove to be a limit on the use of gas, nor did I place any official prices. For all of you to understand, today's outcome is very simple, in fact it's illegal to select gas in the cities of district subordination, because no city head and no city council knows the real price of gas. Today, no one can predict how the heating season will develop in Ukraine. Today, the Department of Fuel and Energy is holding a meeting next week for district officials and local authorities to understand what they are facing in the winter. I wanted to ask you where is the professional approach in the energy field of our government that we've heard about. We have experienced the most patriotic, “Naftogaz Ukraine”, now we are experiencing the most professional “Naftogaz” when experts are talking about the issue of lowering the price of gas transport during the negotiation process. I'd like to ask you a question here in the session room, what are the negotiations today with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy with Russia, what are the terms of the price policy and what kind of price we're going to get? We want government officials to explain to us in this session room how Ukraine will survive the winter, under what conditions and whether or not we should return fantastic loans, because today no official in Ukraine can call the real price. I'd like it not to be an overwhelming norm when we're told that you're here in Parliament to discuss your issues, and we're wise, professional people there to resolve matters. Today, there are hundreds of thousands of deputies of local councils who cannot explain anything to people. So our demand is extremely simple. This week, we have to listen to the government, from the point of view of preparation for the heating season, from the point of view of price policy, or he tells us that he's totally not ready for this, and he's going to have to make radical decisions. Or you and I will decide on absolute unpreparedness and responsibility, and the government's discontent in this direction of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u7	The stoneman gives the word to Winski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u8	Viennese. Parliamentary opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, today is minus 3 in Kiev, so I'm going to talk about a topic that needs to be addressed. One segment of this topic. I'd like to draw the anti-crisis coalition's attention to this issue, because on the budget committee, I've come across a misunderstanding. The topic of rent payments for gas and oil in Ukraine. What is happening today? Today, in the draft budget, the government is proposing a sharp increase in rent payments. What does that mean? This means that if we were to export our gas and oil, it would be clear that, for these rents, the consumer would pay outside of Ukraine. But unlike Russia, Ukraine does not export oil and gas alone. This means that by double the rent on oil and gas, we are additionally withdrawing about 5-7 billion from the population of Ukraine. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. It's a year. And so by listening here from the rostrum of Clovis, I'm surprised he's on the one hand, explaining to all of us that 339 bracelets is the optimal price and doesn't explain why 104 on the well and 339 should pay the consumer. And in parallel with that, when the government is fighting for a reduction in gas prices, there are twice as much rent payments that in the structure of this price today make up more than 30 percent of VAT. And I'm asking, what's this for? What is the purpose of the Ukrainian government and the anti-crisis coalition’s efforts to rob the Ukrainian people? Clearly, the goal is to take it away and then give it to people who seem to be on the shoulders of the bar. But there is another problem. The wells of over 5,000, we talked about it on the budget committee. In fact, the introduction of these rents blocks the development of wells in gas and oil. This means that we are being driven into an artificial scheme where Ukraine will not develop its gas system, but will buy gas in Russia and outside Ukraine, or switch to coal that the government has already declared to us. I'm asking you, what's the logic of 5 billion of carbon, and now we're taking 5 billion out of gas to extract coal? Let's brake down the cheaper sector, and we're squeezing up the more expensive sector. I'm talking to Alexander Alexandrovich, you said that you would influence the Social Party's decision on these social issues, so you're talking about 5.5 to 7 billion people being openly robbed by the coalition you're going to join. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u9	There's a word for Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u10	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to talk about the next one. On 14 October, the media reported that Victor Andreevich Yushchenko reiterated the need to rehabilitate UN-OPA, to align its members with the veterans of the Great Homeland War. In making that statement, Viktor Andreevich certainly knew that during those same hours an attempt would be made to carry out on the main street the march capital of former members of the UN-OPA. The march in Krestatika was not just because representatives of the left parties and Christian organizations took over Krestatik. Regrettably, the militia had been unevenly opposed by the use of force against anti-Fashists. In our view, this synchronism means that Victor Andreevich, in an attempt to increase his selective support in the Western regions, ignores the views of most of the country's population. In other words, by calling for the reconciliation of the nation, it is actually “jumping the boat” of public tranquillity. We are not going to discuss with the supporters of this idea whether the criminal activity of UN-OPA was the decision of the Nuremberg International Military Tribunal, which condemned the crimes of the Waffen SS, including the crimes of the 14th Grenader division of Galicina, the Nakhtigal battalions, Roland, other units recruited from the members of the UN. We wish to draw the attention of Viktor Andreević, as well as of the people's deputies of Ukraine elected on the lists of parties supporting the rehabilitation of UN-OPA, that this idea has sole support in Galicín and Volyn. It is generally supported by less than 15 per cent of the population in Ukraine. We also point out that similar attempts to rehabilitate Latvian and Estonian SS nationalists by the authorities of Latvia and Estonia have been strongly condemned in the European Union, to which we wish to bring our society with you. Such a step would essentially mean that the State of Ukraine unilaterally embarked on a review of the outcome of the Second World War. The consequences of this can be irreversiblely catastrophic for our society and even for the State. The Party of the Regions and the faction of the party believe that it is necessary to focus on the economic, material problems of the older generation, regional public administrations, district and city councils to address the problems of the elderly on the ground so that they do not have to march to Kiev. And the last. Without a doubt, if you and I had been able to realize the dream of Vejeslav Maksimović Cernopol of Ukraine's federal apparatus, the reasons for confrontation would have been much less. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u11	The word has Gnatenko, instead of Zjijenova. Will Bogchuk follow him or who? Menduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u12	National deputy of Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, “Our Ukraine”. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear representatives of the media! I once again take the lead in the commission of my military colleagues, members of the All - Ukrainian Union of Public Unions, members of the fighting, military veterans and law enforcement agencies, who are now holding their first protest rally before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some 200 delegates from all district organizations gathered to express their stand. We all understand that the economy of Ukraine is in a difficult situation, that the government is looking for ways to cut the spending portion of the state budget. But why is it done at the expense of those who have dedicated their lives to the service of the State? I'd like to ask you, on the example of my life, who has decided to put me to a standstill, a so-called, counter-revolution in Czechoslovakia? What about sharing in the war between China and Vietnam? Who sent me to do what's called an international duty in Afghanistan? I changed 16 places of service, spent 16 quarters, and moved 16 times between my family and me from the garrison to the garrison. This is the fate of many of my military colleagues. All decisions were made by the presidents. Parliaments, governments, and none of us military had the right to answer: “No! We will not implement this state decision, we have given the state all health, youth and hope that the nations will give us what is due, take care of us, and be able to provide us with a decent existence." Unfortunately, today we are forced to state that the Draft Law on the 2007 State Budget is contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine as a result of the limitations of our constitutional rights and guarantees. Dear members of the government, I address you! You're not looking for an extra budget, you're looking for them on the border, in customs, in gas and metal houses, in other subsidiaries, in the skyscrapers, in gas prices and in tariff policies. Additional costs should be sought in the system's work to get the capital out of the shadow. And this is almost Ukraine's second budget. Dear National Deputies! I refer to you once again that by eliminating guarantees and reducing the material well-being of people in pursuits, we undermine the patriotic spirit of those who serve and those who want to serve the country is weakening the international authority of our nation. I ask the Committee on Budgetary Questions to accept my statement as a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u13	Thank you. The Socialist faction has Jaroslav Mendus. There is a statement by the heads of the faction requesting the unification of his right, or Bagachuk and Kupchenka, for a performance of up to six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! On October 17, the faction of the “Our Ukraine” Block made an application for the transition to opposition. Such a step is the issue of the political power itself and its representatives in Parliament. No one can violate her right to do so. However, many questions trigger motivation for such a step, and the intent of motivation makes it possible to make completely predictable predictions. That is why the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is obliged to say the following. First. The main argument on the need to move to power by putting an end to the negotiations on the enlargement of the parliamentary coalition, the leadership of “Our Ukraine” is gaining the unwillingness of the anti-crisis coalition representatives to include in the text of the agreement on the creation of a coalition of national unity of text signed at the beginning of August of the Universal. This pretentious, speculative, and planned claim does not match the real state of things. The positions of the Universal were put forward by a working group of negotiators to consider the leaders of the four political forces. And so the leader of "Our Ukraine" received confirmation that the Party of Regions and the Socialist Party were ready to include the Universal in the coalition agreement without notice, and the Communist Party with the same warnings that accompanied the signing of the Universal. Thus, the discussion was exhausted, and it was only about the technical drafting of the agreement. Nevertheless, within half an hour, the head of “Our Ukraine” stated that the possibilities of negotiations had been exhausted and that this had signalled widespread innuendo on the inadmissibility of the anti-crisis coalition. The other one. Today it becomes even more clear that “Our Ukraine” does not want to be in coalition and reference to the Universal and other arguments just to cover up real intentions. The analysis of the situation gives us reason to say that it is our Ukraine, not the anti-crisis coalition, that is to say that it is not the anti-crisis coalition that is guarding itself to be responsible for the performance of the Universal's positions, while at the same time trying to transfer its guilt to others. The point is that the Universal paragraph foresees a continuation of the reform of the power system and its deepening, the strengthening of the role and status of local councils and their executions. This is in no way good for some of the “Our Ukraine” leaders who want to revise the polytreform, return to the authoritarian model of governance, which has been fully compromised in the years of previous rule. I mean, going back to a model that was actually made by Midan. Third. Artificially created non-profit debates on the powers of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers on the procedures for human resources appointments, the likely structure of the budget, as if delaying Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization, unappealing comments by ministers of “our countries” by prime ministers, which is unknown to world practice. It's all just the general contours of the schematics for the polytreform revision. In the same direction, options for a way out are being considered: not the exit of ministers from the government. According to information that can be trusted, the judges of the Constitutional Court have been subjected to intense pressure in recent weeks by our individual colleagues from “Our Ukraine”. There is blackmail, coaxing, and questionable offers. It all boils down to the desired goal of lifting the vote in Parliament on December 8, 2004. A test stone for this purpose is the consideration of the submission of the deputies of “our Ukrainians” on the alleged unconstitutionality of the addition to the Law on the Constitutional Court. This addition does not allow the Constitutional Court to review the changes already adopted to the Constitution, in fact the very active Constitution. Fifth. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine claims that in Ukrainian society, enough power is needed to defend democratic transformations by voting for changes in the Constitution. We strongly believe that only the deepening of polytreforms, the introduction of a European governance model, including at the local level, will pave the way for improving the lives of citizens, overcoming corruption, guaranteeing democracy, human rights and freedoms. No one's going to get involved in polytreforms, and the corresponding contraries and assessments of adventurers will be received both inside and outside Ukraine. Six. In this situation, the attempt on the part of some of our Ukrainians to essentially frame the President of Ukraine is drawing attention to. His popular position on democracy and the legal principles of the functioning of the state, his significant contribution to the stability of the political climate in Ukraine, his efforts to unite it are trying to question those who understand any change in the system of government as a change of personnel in power for their own private benefit. They are convinced that the President sees the conjunctural efforts to restore power to the hands of adventurers and responds appropriately. Seven. Once again, the expansion of the power coalition is possible and beneficial to the common cause of the Ukrainian society. Our Ukrainians need to stop unnecessary political demarches and take responsibility for the stability and development of Ukraine along with representatives of other political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sadowy Mikola. The State Budget for 2007 is now being established. This is a complex and painful process. All the people are concerned about the state of affairs in the state and are awaiting positive action from the President, from the government, from the Supreme Council. A vast army of educated people are also awaiting answers to a number of questions, particularly the most important among them, namely, the 57th article on compensation for debts that the state has in front of the teaching corps; these are benefits for teachers in rural areas, because they are driven to a dead end; this is student insurance for both scholarships and dormitory equipment, and free travel in transport at an appropriate time; this is also a problem of retirement, taking into account all earnings, including cross-section. Because if we don't, we're going to lose a lot of experienced teachers. This is also the payment of pensions and salaries for those who work today, especially professors, associate professors of higher education. If this happens in the state budget and there is a limit, we will lose an extremely large number of experienced personnel who are preparing students for a new life today. This is another problem, a problem that relates to the implementation of the Ukrainian Children of War Act, because there is, unfortunately, no clarity so far. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine makes proposals for reviewing the state budget on. A year's pay to the heads of the silages that are currently selected, because those heads of the silhouettes that are not selected, they get a salary for a period of time, and those who are currently elected have lost their wages. At the same time, the faction refers to the Pension Fund: not to create a pension gap, because it is now, unfortunately, too much. Please consider my statement as a request to the budget committee on education and children of war, as well as to the Pension Fund for the stable payment of pensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u17	Kirilenko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We're surprised to hear the mentoring tone of the seven proposals of the faction "Our Ukraine" expressed by the Socialist MP and, of course, we won't give a special answer to this, because the faction's position yesterday is spelled out in the speech of the Roman Immortal faction. However, we would like to remind you that it was the Socialist faction that came this summer treacherously, without warning, that came out of the democratic coalition and entered the so-called “anti-crisis” for which the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was appointed. We therefore believe that this faction teaches from the rostrum the faction of “Our Ukraine” and in general any electorate in Ukraine has no moral right. [[Applause]] Now what I wanted to say before that. Dear colleagues, millions of our fellow countrymen, are concerned about the government’s actions aimed at effectively eliminating the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. On May 31, 2006, the government of Yehanurov established the institution as the central authority of the executive branch with special status. Its main tasks are to define how to increase society's attention to its own history, how to disseminate objective information about it in Ukraine and the world, and how to implement a set of measures to perpetuate the memory of victims of famine and political repression. However, judging from the 2077 budget project, these tasks are not part of today’s government’s plans. The National Remembrance Institute is deprived of the status of the principal of the funds, and it is not clear on what basis it is proposed to finance through the Derjkomarchs. In addition, in lieu of nearly six million dollars agreed with Minfin, it is proposed that a little less than four million dollars be allocated for its funding. We demand that the government ensure that the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory is functioning as the central authority of the State, with adequate facilities, funding, and full support from the State. In addition, we note that President Yushchenko of Ukraine has issued three decrees over the past five and a half years to perpetuate the memory of the victims of hunger, which call on the Supreme Council to give a political and legal assessment of the famine and genocide of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, we are convinced that this tragic subject can unite all the Ukrainian political forces represented here in the Hall. All except one marginal political entity in which the political descendants of the organizers of the famine are united. The geography of the famine touched Donbas, Dniproperty, Zaporozhye, the whole of Ukraine. We propose by November 25, a day of memory of the victims of hunger, a bill of presidential urgency and consensus to vote in favour of the genocide of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we've used up time for applications and proposals. There were questions and appeals to me, I'll give you a quick answer. Joseph of Vienna raised an interesting topic regarding rent payments for the production of Ukrainian gas. And indeed, you can analyze the subject more deeply because it is sharp today. All we need to bear in mind is that to this day this gas, which has been mined in Ukraine, has not all been used for utilities but has also been used for export purposes. And so the increase in rent in that sense was absolutely justified. On the other hand, if we were to compare the congregations from the rent payments, let's say, with the subsidies, then the comparison would be correct. If we're talking about carbon support costs, we still have to make these payments, and we have to make them in the budget somewhere, in the income section, including. Nevertheless, we need to assume that coal will have to be used for many years. We've got a stash. 400 years. Then, when the gas reserves in both Ukraine and in the countries where we take it, I mean first in Russia, limited for several decades. And one way or another, our energy complex needs to be transferred to other sources of energy. Let's move on. Regarding observations about the immoral rights of socialists there and mine, among other things. Whose fidelity was it, and where there was fidelity, I think people have already come to their senses. I regret that earlier, the farce that had stretched for several months did not stop with the possible coalition partners. I think everyone understands this very well, including the confirmation that there is and that the circumstances that have taken place today, the political forces that created one coalition yesterday, cannot agree on unity of action today. Agree and do not, from your head to someone else’s head do not translate your guilt. There is a question of information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the fourth part of the 2006 session. Reports the head of the Permanent Delegation, Šibko Vitali Jakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u20	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, October 2-6, 2006 was the fourth session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the following composition: Šibko, Golovatij, Nemira, Bilozur, Bondarenko, Pisarenko, Feldman, Yanukovic, Popescu, Yankovsky. The agenda of the European Court of Human Rights was to consider such issues as the report on the activities of the Assembly Bureau, the institutional balance in the Council of Europe, the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the general policy on the situation in the Balkans, the 2007 budget of the Council of Europe, the alarming delay, the ratification of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minor Member States of the Council of Europe, the OECD and the World Economy, the cultural situation with the Kurds, the creation of a European Centre for the Memory of Victims of Violence and Ethnic Cleans, the image of refugees and asylum seekers in the media, the need for reconciliation of labour and family life, the interest of Europe in the long-term economic development of Russia, the promotion of local self-government along the borders of the Council of Europe. In addition, the “Last Events in Lebanon” issue was discussed in the context of the situation in the Middle East and the mass arrival of immigrants on the southern coast of Europe. From the Ukrainian delegation during the debates in the Assembly, Glavatius, Popescu, Šibko spoke. The Assembly elected its Vice-President, the Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of Parliament, and the monitoring committee of the PARIS, at its meeting, appointed its rapporteurs to the Committee on the Introduction of Montenegro to the Council of Europe. In his address to the Parliamentary Forum, Vander Linden welcomed Romania and Bulgaria with a future introduction to the EU, but expressed regret that the Assembly was not sufficiently strict with regard to these countries during the monitoring procedure. In his view, this would help them solve the problems of reforming the legal system and fighting corruption, and the EU would not, in turn, impose conditions on their membership. After all, the progress made by Turkey in recent years and the fact that the EU has finally started negotiations with the accession was largely due to Turkey's partnership with the Council of Europe and its constructive attitude towards the monitoring activities of Africa. Members of the Parliamentary Assembly listened to the report by Schider of Austria on the institutional balance in the Council of Europe. The report highlighted the need to reform the institutional structure of the Council of Europe with a view to strengthening the role of the Assembly, including with regard to budgeting for the organization, the impact on and enforcement of the European Court of Human Rights, the deepening of the dialogue between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Assembly, and the revitalization of the role of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe. The members of PARJE heard a report by Jürgens of the Netherlands on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights rulings. In this regard, the reporter noted that the priority was to address structural problems in national legislation, such as in Italy, the Russian Federation, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. At the same time, the draft report notes, among other things, that numerous and systematic problems exist in Ukraine, which are burdened by serious violations of the independence of judges. The Assembly also considered the report, the situation in the Balkans, which was presented by a member of the Committee on Political Affairs of Ersz of Hungary. Describing Albania's relations with the Balkan region, Albanian Prime Minister Berisha noted, among other things, that Albania, along with Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, supports the granting of Kosovo the status of an independent state. This statement later sparked a written protest by the delegation of Serbia, which states that the representative of the Albanian State is not allowed to speak about the position of other states, especially since these states officially support a mutually acceptable solution to the problem. Will from Belgium, in his 2007 report on the Council of Europe budget, drew attention to a significant reduction in Member States' contributions to the Council of Europe budget that threatens the existence of an organization. On October 4, at the Assembly’s morning meeting, the chairman of the Council of Europe’s Council of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation of Lavrov, spoke. The minister noted five priorities of the Russian presidency of the Council of Europe, which fully correspond to the status and tasks of the Council of Europe. Responding to Michaelson’s questions from Estonia about Russia’s hostility toward Georgia, Lavrov noted that the Georgian authorities had conducted anti - Russian politics in recent years. He stressed that the policy of that State was not in harmony with the will of the Georgian people. Representatives of Romania Predo. asked Lavrov to comment on Russia’s position on the referendum in Transnistria. The minister noted that the last referendum in Transnistria was due to the fact that the conflict in the region remained unresolved for 16 years. When faced with political uncertainty and economic pressure, he said, they used a tool of direct democracy to express their view of the most acceptable form of stability in the region. He stated that the results of the Transnistrian population were rather political, rather than legal, and should not be disregarded. Linbel of Sweden in his report “Last Events in Lebanon” in the context of the situation in the Middle East welcomed the cessation of hostilities in Lebanon and positively noted the contribution of the UN, the EU and other international organizations to achieving this outcome. The reporter stressed that events in Lebanon should be considered exclusively in the context of the overall settlement of the conflict in the Middle East. The Swedish Parliamentarian condemned Hasballa’s policy of violence, which led to a new outbreak of conflict, expressed concern over the destabilizing role of Iran and Syria, clearly condemning the unwarranted use of force on the part of Israel and the unwarranted attacks on civilian objects. [[United Kingdom]] reported on the question of the mass arrival of illegal migrants in South Europe, expressing concern about the numerous violations of human rights of migrants, the humiliation of their dignity. Reporter of interest in Europe in Russia’s early economic development Noted Russia's great economic potential and the recent achievements of the Russian economy. [[Finland]] At the same time, the rapporteur stressed the need for structural reforms in Russia, which would guarantee a stable and sustained economic development and warned against a disproportionate focus on the development of the oil and gas sector, which could cause significant imbalances in the economy and widen the gap between rich and poor. Representatives of other countries expressed support for the positions presented in the report and made a number of comments. Especially. [[Switzerland]] drew attention to the need for a just redistribution of national wealth in Russia, the MP noted that the population should feel that the natural resources of the States serve the people, as he thought in Russia at the time, all resources concentrated in the hands of the narrow circle of persons, and the standard of living of the major part of the population remained strikingly low. The Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Paris met with President Vander Linden of the Assembly, as well as with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Teri Davis, with the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Hamem Berg, and Deputy Head of the Secretariat of the European Commission for the Prevention of Torture, Mayer, who was in the process of discussing the issue of election. A representative of Ukraine, a member of the commission. During the discussion with the head of the political committee, Parje Atasham was informed of an agreement between the President of the Supreme Council of the United States of America and the President of the Republic of Africa to hold one of the outgoing meetings of the PARIS Political Committee in Ukraine next year. Other issues were also addressed during the meetings and the conduct of the PARJE itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u21	Thank you for the information. The information is not provided in the Rules, I say again: it is not in the Rules. You want out of the procedure? Please give Matthew a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u22	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Vitaly Yakovich and Alexander Alexandrovich, I address you. I truly respect Vitali Jakovitch, but I cannot say these words about the information he gave us from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. In Ukraine, he spent one and a half minutes talking only about formal things. I think it's very interesting what's going on in Albania, what's going on in Syria, what's going on in Russia. But I am interested in how national interests are being protected and what policy in the protection of national interests is being pursued by our delegation. Not a word of this is said. Alexander Alexandrovich, I ask you to respond adequately as Head of the Supreme Council that the content of our delegation's work should be first Ukraine, not a demonstration of the order of the day and the loss of ten minutes' distance today, which is not obvious to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u23	Thank you, we'll take your suggestions into account, but one thing is that the Ukrainian parliamentary delegation does not form an order of the day session. I was curious to hear what Vitali Yakovic said, and you're not interested, obviously you have enough other information. Nevertheless, Vitali Jakovic, the question came with an answer from the place. Please give Shikku your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u24	Thank you. I thank Anatoly Sergeiovich for his wishes. Indeed, this session was more devoted than to Ukraine as we used to, but more to other issues. But what I want to say is that Ukrainians have taken a very active part in discussing these issues, and that's why they have claimed not only by defending their interests, but something else is being proposed to develop situations when discussing a particular issue. And that's exactly what full membership is, and full participation in the session, when we take care not only of our questions at the session, but also of our concern for the general European issues, because when you start talking about Ukraine there, they ask you all the time, and what your contribution to other events, including Kosovo, including Lebanon and so on. And that's what's interesting about Europeans. That's what we did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u25	Okay. Next time, Anatoly Sergiyovich, recommend in the delegation that he will adjust the work of the entire Parliamentary Assembly in the context he has just expressed. In the meantime, we are considering a block of issues related to the fight against corruption. We have several draft laws from the President, which will be reported by Roman Zvaric, Minister of Justice. Before that, he's asking to generalize the approach, the President's proposals, and then essentially look at these issues. He gets that right. Please go to the rostrum. The first of these documents is the draft law, but I'm going to say this after that opening statement that he asked for time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I want to make one general trailer right away that I'd like everyone to listen to. Today, this room will solve the very simple question of whether this corps is really ready to demonstrate its readiness, its determination to overcome this disgraceful phenomenon, which is called corruption, whether this room will continue to play all political games and will not go in this course that is in line with international standards and standards. That is exactly what I am asking because I do not understand some of the things that arise from the consideration of these bills by the President of Ukraine. Three laws have been introduced: the ratification of major anti-corruption conventions, the UN anti-corruption convention, the criminal convention against corruption of the Council of Europe, and an additional protocol to this convention. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, it is known that in the case of ratification of conventions requiring changes to national legislation, the subject of the legislative initiative is accompanied by relevant bills, which are being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the consideration of instruments of ratification. In view of this situation, the President of Ukraine also passed three laws proposing to harmonize the principles of domestic anti-corruption legislation with the marked international conventions. This is the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts on Liability and Corruption, and on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to make a few general statements about this package of laws. Because I'm stressing that this is one whole package of laws. And not adopting one of these six laws, it's clear that all six fail. These initiatives by the Head of State, along with his concept of overcoming corruption in Ukraine, entitled “On the path to integrity”, are vital to our state in a situation where corruption has, unfortunately, become the way it exists. Please also note that according to the various ratings of the international organizations, Ukraine remains one of the most corrupt states in the world. Of course, MPs can find some kind of comfort in that we've risen in these anti-corruption ratings up to 6 positions in the last year, from 125 positions to 119. I don't think there's any reason to enjoy it. According to studies organized by the Ministry of Justice, corruption for our citizens is second among their problems, after low wages. Similarly, corruption is the biggest problem for entrepreneurs after high taxes. On the other hand, more than half the population agrees to bribe and more are willing to pay for corruption. At the same time, in a situation where this disgrace has become a common phenomenon and almost a rule in the last more than 10 years since the adoption of the current Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, none of the subjects of the legislative initiative have ever proposed such projects to our nation. So I think I should thank the President of Ukraine for this wonderful legislative initiative. Let me take a few more briefs on the decision of the profile committee based on the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to apologize now, because I'm going to say something in sharp terms, because I can't help but comment on the things I've read in these conclusions. And they're kind of surprised by some of the positions in these conclusions. First. Amount of conclusions. In the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there have not yet been such broad conclusions on draft laws, up to three anticorruption bills of 127. Even when draft codes were submitted for Parliament’s consideration, the conclusions were far less extensive. It's about quantity. Now for form, that is, form. Now for the content. Similarly, in Parliament’s history, there have probably never been a case where the findings of the first - reading project contained purely editorial proposals. For example. It's about replacing words or changing the order of those words, or just texting things that aren't legal. What is more, the scope of these so - called literary amendments is astounded. For example. Only a little more than 10 of the proposals for the Ukrainian Bill on Principles, Prevention and Anti-Corruption are not editorial in nature but relate to the legal content of the project itself. I mean, just 10 out of 127. There are questions to colleagues and the content of the conclusion itself. While there is no doubt about the professionalism of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to draw attention to some of the inadmissible, we think, mistakes that are quite eloquent. In general, it seems that the authors of the conclusions do not understand the bill’s modern anticorruption ideology and do not want to move away from an outdated repressive approach to the ways of overcoming corruption. Moreover, it is not clear that a code of conduct does not exist. That's the observation of science and science. You could agree with him, but please consider the country’s distinguished national deputies that the Ukrainian judges’ assembly approved such a document in 2002. Moreover, such codes exist in all nations that claim to be civilized. The relevant standards are fixed in a wide range of documents, both by the Council of Europe and by influential international organizations, such as the Consultative Council of European Judges. It also seems unclear that the UN Convention against Corruption and the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption of the Council of Europe define the subject of corruption only as a material asset. The Explanatory Note to the European Council Criminal Convention against Corruption and the Legislative Recommendation for the Implementation of the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which we have already ratified as early as February 4, 2004, directly and unequivocally refutes these positions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Corruption can also be the object of the benefits of a non-patial character. Here are examples of promotions in the field of science, promotion, and so forth. In view of the above, it is thought that the imperfections of anticorruption laws introduced by the President of Ukraine are artificially created. In summary, I would like to point out a few things. Firstly, the submission of the bill -- I repeat -- is the only comprehensive anti-corruption legislative initiative that needs to be considered in a package. These initiatives are extremely important in view of the above and the fact that since 1 January this year the country has become a member of the Group of States of the Council of Europe against Greek Corruption, and the first round of Ukraine's assessment of the state of compliance with European anti-corruption standards is scheduled for November. Procrastination with the implementation of these standards can lead to monitoring and appropriate sanctions until Ukraine’s membership in the Council of Europe is suspended. In addition, negative assessments by economic cooperation and development organizations can have a corresponding impact on Ukraine’s investment attractiveness. Therefore, it is very important that these draft laws do not become hostages to the political situation and result in consequences such as that of several years ago in relation to FAT when financial sanctions were applied to Ukraine. Now, Alexandre Alexandrovich, if you don't mind, I'm ready to present my first bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u27	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, you will now do so, I am only generally obliged to give an answer because they are addressed to the Supreme Council, and I am responsible. I want to say that, indeed, an extremely important cluster of issues we're considering and MPs, including, I'm genuinely interested in having these clearly balanced, well-thought-out bills that will put up a block of corruption. And, of course, the President himself doesn't write these bills, and perhaps. From his point of view, their consistency with existing legislation, or the need to strengthen legislation, is not everything there, as it should be. And that's why obviously the scientific expertise was looking so closely at the President's proposals. I can assure you that no one has given instructions to the expert management in any way prejudiced to approach this matter. So if there are detailed comments, all the way to editorial rights, let's say thank the management for not missing these moments, because they still need to be corrected. And finally, yesterday, I spoke to the President about this bill block. I said that there were proposals for developers, more loyally, a professional committee and other legislators about the drafting of the document, and that this would not be seen as some kind of reproach or drag. I'm convinced that now you as a minister can join this case and explain in more detail what you're talking about now, because I've agreed on such a scheme, I'm looking at that it's not entirely foreseen here when we're considering tariff issues, that we're ratifying convention documents, that we're making commitments to ourselves, but we're going to put them into action when we're working on laws that match both concepts, and the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code, and other of our legislative acts. So let's do this, we're going to go very seriously on every project without reproaching each other or whatever. I think we're going to find common approaches here, because that's really the subject that's very concerned about our society. And so we are now considering a draft law amending some of the legislation on liability for corruption offences that the President of Ukraine has also introduced. And Roman Mikolaiovich Zvaric will report on this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Honourable People's Deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for corruption offences, have been developed to implement the paragraph. Measures to eliminate the causes and conditions that contribute to criminal acts and corruption approved by the President’s decree of February 2, 2004, in connection with Ukraine’s signing of the United Nations Convention against Corruption on December 12, 2003. [[I emphasize, 2003]] The bill has been drafted to take account of the state of affairs in the area of combating organized crime and corruption and to provide more effective protection for citizens against criminal corruption, to prevent the loss of the state and to prevent society from the actions of offenders, to decisively eliminate the shameful phenomena that hinder the development of the economy, to create market relations. The amendments proposed by the draft law are based on the need to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 September this year. By identifying specific stocks, primarily corruption, as well as other corruption and corruption related offences, and by regulating the order of criminal and administrative responsibility. The main tasks of the selected project are the following. Bringing criminal legislation to the UN Convention against Corruption, the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption, and the draft Ukrainian law that I spoke of earlier. In particular, the establishment of criminal responsibility for trade in influence, as required by article 7 of the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. Expansion of the subjective structure by establishing the responsibility of persons who do not have the status of civil servant but perform the public functions of the State. For example: a private auditor, a private notary, an expert in court, an arbitrator, and so on. Establishing the possibility of attracting criminal responsibility to persons who perform duties of an official in any other State or international organization. Differentiating the criminal responsibility of officials by assigning them to a separate category of crime in the field of service. A person who carries out an organizational or administrative obligation in a legal person of private law does not depend on an organizational or legal form of ownership. In particular, the bill’s novelty is to establish responsibility for making a commercial bribe. Determining the series of corruption crimes and other corruption offences, taking into account the signs identified in the draft Law on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption.” I wanted to emphasize that. This bill requires these additional changes. And so again, I'm putting a particular emphasis on thinking of these laws as one packet. Establishing administrative responsibility for a wide range of corruption and corruption-related offences The definition in the Criminal Code of a criminal offence in cases of corruption affecting the interests of a legal person. The adoption of the proposed bill will create an adequate legal guarantee to prevent and combat corruption in our country in accordance with international law, UN requirements, the Council of Europe and other international organizations. Let me also say, honourable national deputies, that the textual literary amendments proposed should be further elaborated on the drafting of the bill for the second reading. That is, when it comes to the drafting of this bill and others in order to prepare it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in second reading, the President of Ukraine does not deny it. Instead, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the courage to invite the President of Ukraine to finalize these bills, I am authorized to state that the President of Ukraine will refuse your proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u29	Well, let's think about it essentially. Question, if there is. We understand very well that it is not the President who is writing the law, Roman Mikhailovich, and no one blames him. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u30	Alexander Alexanderovich, I said I was authorized to make such an application.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u31	Thank you. The entry goes on to ask questions. Wait a minute. Let us ask the question, depending on who will sign up. Give me 10 minutes. Knazevitch, please. Then Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u32	Roman Mikhailovich, you said quite correctly that the law that you have just reported is actually coming out of the implementation of the UN Convention on the Fight against Corruption. Along with how you feel about the fact that the convention itself is far away in order of day, and the laws that are coming out of it are far ahead of it? Is there absolutely no alogical step in this, as you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u33	In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, ratified international instruments, conventions, legal instruments, become part of Ukraine’s national legislation. Instead, according to, if I am not mistaken, part 7 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts in the event that ratification of such international instruments will require changes to national legislation, the relevant legislative act shall be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the relevant convention is being considered and the final decision is being taken. So it was perfectly normal to suggest to me, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that by ratifying the relevant international instruments we can determine whether they are effective and to link this date to the date on which the laws that accompany the relevant convention take effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u34	The question is, Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u35	Mr. Secretary! We're surprised to hear your brief statements on behalf of the President. We're not guilty here in the Parliamentary Hall that the President doesn't have enough literate lawyers to send us literate bills. And what does the word "no" mean? The President will refuse to correct any mistakes, or will he refuse to pass appropriate laws aimed at combating corruption? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u36	First of all, it applies essentially. I'd like to ask you one more time to just think about the number that I'm going to mention. Of the comments that were made on these three bills. I'm not talking about the convention yet. There were as many as 127. I've been a national deputy of Ukraine for a long time, I emphasize, I was a national deputy of Ukraine, I've read all the findings of the Science and Experimental Authority, because that was my job in the faction. I don’t remember such an amount of conclusions about such bills. This is the first time. Secondly, as regards the very contents of these proposals or the comments to the bills themselves. With our analysis, only ten of those 127 are of a meaningful nature, one that can be considered a normo-project character. I'm not saying it's small or large, I'm just saying, compare, please, ten out of 127. If you think about it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u37	Please, Roman Mikhailovich is not aware of what the minutes are for a question. Therefore, it is automatically excluded whether you want to continue the answer, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u38	I'm very short. Then there is no reason to redraft these bills in the process of preparing them for the second reading. Instead, a recommendation was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the President to work on it. As for the professional level of the President's lawyers, you will be faced with that lawyer and you will have the full right under 85 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine to give a proper assessment to this lawyer by resigning him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u39	Thank you. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u40	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Alexander Aleksandrovich, please give my word to my colleague Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Minister! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. We ask you not to worry, the Socialist faction will support the President's efforts to bring this serious issue in order to combat corruption. But we're concerned about another question. According to your information, according to analysis today in the ten most corrupt organs of Ukraine, these are the very bodies that we have been tasked with fighting corruption. So we have doubts as to whether they will deal with the additional powers given to them by the new legislation? Perhaps we need to think today by adopting new legislation that we should have a new specialized, professional unit that would take this problem seriously and deal with it daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u43	First of all, a general trailer. Dear colleagues, if you have read these bills, and especially if you are familiar with modern approaches that are successfully and effectively applied in Europe and the world, it is there that anti-corruption programmes have been successfully implemented, where the state has not fought the phenomenon, and where it has tried to eradicate the very phenomenon, that is, to overcome the very sources of its existence. We've been fighting the phenomenon for 15 years now, and it's like we're just multiplying it year after year, and you're absolutely right when you think about it. As for the general offer, I will now express my personal position. I'm convinced that a separate government body should be created to be transferred, in particular, to the functions of a prior investigation of serious and medium-sized crimes, and perhaps some categories of minor crimes, provided that this can be called the National Bureau of Investigation. So we're going to be able to: (a) Reform the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u44	Please give him another word for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u45	Having taken from them the functions of the previous investigation, which is completely not included in any logical framework. And secondly, to reform the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is still a punishment, not a civilian department, as is the case in all countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u46	Thank you, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u47	Thank you. The Communist faction. Zybenko. Dear Mr. Minister! I understand that you consider this document to be quite perfect, unlike the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. I want you to comment on one rule of this law, namely: Article 368 with the title 1 of the illegal enrichment project will be considered a crime if a person illegally acquires at least 100,000 dollars. It turns out if it's 50,000 dollars, or 99 dollars, it's no longer legal. You think that's the norm that you can fight against corruption, so I want us to still, I want to hear your answer on this point? And the second question. Please tell me, on the basis of the law, how large a number of officials can be called to account because there are certain coalitions in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u48	As for the second question, and I cannot answer it because it does not fall within the realm of my knowledge. And as for the first question, I would ask you to understand, Mr. Peter, that bills have been prepared for two years in Minius. They agreed with all of them, I emphasize, with all the relevant authorities, that this process has been going on for a very long time, including the Supreme Court, the Hen Prosecutor's Office and all the departments that were interested in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As far as this article is concerned, I would ask that I do not remember what article this article is, in the context of the general principle laid down in this bill that all civil servants be obliged to declare their incomes and that incomes are in line with expenses. This is a general practice now applied throughout Europe. That is, that the state should be able to establish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u49	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u50	Roman Mikhailovich, I have one conceptual and two little practical questions. First. In fact, the ideology of the law provides for the expansion of the subjects of responsibility under the so - called private law. This means, in fact, that we are more concerned now than about the abuse of the public service system and local self-government, in the big business, but we are concerned about fantastic corruption among the common people, among small businesses and so on. Don't you think it's not for our country yet. And two specific questions. First question. I looked at the standard of liability for benefits and preferences, and I was intrigued. Do you not think that the authors of the Cabinet of Ministers bill, which establishes preferences for government members, can be held accountable for up to two years in prison, as it says? And the last brief question. The common interest is that you continue as the minister of justice to report these laws, have you decided to leave the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u51	As for the last question, since it does not apply to the subject of this bill, I will not answer it yet. I think sooner or later you can make the right decisions for yourself. By the way, whether there's a statement or not, because there's already been a question here about the professional level of authority that I'm leading. Now essentially. With regard to criminal liability for legal persons. I would ask you to just mention a few years ago an incident that took place in America that still has a very resonant impact on the company, with Enron. In America, it would be possible to bring the company's leadership to criminal responsibility, and the company itself had to pay fairly serious administrative fines for offences that were criminal in nature, and no one doubted that. It's a general trend now that's applied not only in the United States, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u52	I beg of you, Roman Mikhailovich, you will excuse me for automatically shutting down the microphone. But you'd better tell us about Ukraine, our examples, but you've had enough experience in this regard. He'll finish his thought. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u53	Experience is lacking, Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u54	I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u55	Because I've never run a law firm.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u56	No, no. I mean, as a minister, as a minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u57	This is a practice that is now being applied all over Europe, and this is at the disposal of the UN Convention and the Council of Europe Convention, which is already ratified by 37 countries of the Council of Europe, and it is being applied there. As far as Ukraine is concerned. I am convinced that instead of punishing drivers, secretaries, or accountants, it is still necessary to punish those who are responsible for criminal acts that lead the relevant legal persons. These changes will give us the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u58	Uncle. Oh, I'm sorry, it's been a while. Please sit down for a while. My word from the committee, Mikola Vasilovich Giga, please. By the time he gets here, I'd like to speak to all of you again. Until the reporter gets to the rostrum. The thing is, we're gonna have to figure it out here. With such observations by both the expert board and the profile committee, we usually send a project to work on it, otherwise it means that it still needs to be improved. But in this case, it's about sending him to the President. So we can either take it to the first reading and then work on these projects ourselves, or we can make a decision on commissioning the committee in the first reading to re-preparate this document without returning it to the President, and we can ratify it, perhaps in the first reading of the convention. And to predict that we will put them into effect only if we prepare these laws. That's it. Probably so that it doesn't arise here, let's say, discussions or coalitions about the relationship with the President so that no one suspects Parliament in some political game. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, the committee at its meeting on October 4, this year considered six bills introduced by the President of Ukraine in an anti-corruption package, registration numbers: 0039, 0040, 0041, 2112, 2113 and 2114. At the same time, members of the committee noted that corruption in Ukraine was one of the problems that needed immediate solutions. It poses a significant threat to democracy, to the rule of law, to social progress, to national security, to civil society. Without further detailing the problem, I will only point out that Ukraine is now 113th among the world’s countries at the level of corruption, which is higher against previous years, but still one of the lowest places among the 46 member states of the Council of Europe. In the latest “International Transparency” index, Ukraine received 2.6 tenths in the range of 1 to 10. 10 are countries with a minimum level of corruption, 1 is the worst. Some progress is just that this indicator has improved from two and two, which was before two and six. Therefore, without decisive steps in the fight against corruption, Ukraine has no chance of integrating itself into European structures. The leadership of our nation is well aware of this and recognizes that corruption is a priority problem that requires complex and serious countermeasures. One of them is to improve legislation in the field of prevention and anti-corruption. I remind you that on November 18, 2005, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the first-line measures for the deterrence of the economy and the fight against corruption. On January 20, this year, the Head of State, by decree, approved a plan of action for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising out of its membership in the Council of Europe. By this decree, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should ensure coordination of the implementation by the central executive authorities of the measures envisaged by the approved plan, as well as the monitoring of compliance with established deadlines. Subparagraph 9 of the plan provides for measures aimed at overcoming corruption and legalizing the proceeds of crime. For this purpose, it is necessary to prepare for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine bills on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption concerning the imposition of criminal liability on legal persons of the new edition of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, etc. It should be noted that all the deadlines set for this part have long passed: February 20, March 1, and April 1, this year. Thus, with the aim of improving the legal and organizational principles for preventing and combating corruption and implementing the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the President of Ukraine, by his decree of September 11, this year, endorsed the concept of overcoming corruption in Ukraine on the path to integrity and introduced a package of projects aimed at implementing Ukraine’s international obligations in the area of anticorruption. In particular, the head of state brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: first, on the ratification of the United Nations convention against corruption. Second, on the ratification of the criminal convention on the fight against corruption. Third, on the ratification of an additional protocol to the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. Fourth, to amend some of the legislation on liability for corruption. Fifth, on the principles of prevention of corruption. And the sixth, on the responsibility of legal persons for committing corruption. The explanatory notes to all these bills state that their adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not require additional spending from the State Budget. While welcoming the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of the committee at the time of the consideration of the bill were also noting that the large number of proposals put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine had significant substantive shortcomings and caused serious objections. The adoption of these provisions can pose a threat to justice and the rule of law, violate the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of individual individuals and legal entities. Thus, according to the Ukrainian National Deputies of Committee Members, a bill amending some of the legislative acts on liability for corruption offences, number 2112, needs to be seriously revised to complement the criminal code with a new chapter 7a. Taking into account the degree of danger in determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u60	How long do you need to finish thinking? Well, turn on the microphone, let him finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u61	The relevant changes in criminal sanctions for committing crimes are necessary to amend a number of articles of the Criminal Procedure Code. With regard to the bill on the principles of prevention and anti-corruption. The committee, members of the committee noted that it needed serious elaboration in part of the definitions of “corruption”, “neighbourly relatives”, “conflict of interest”, terms that define the subject of corruption offences, clarifying the number of subjects taking steps to prevent and combat corruption, establishing codes of conduct for general requirements and conduct for persons listed in the relevant articles of the bill. In considering the bill on the liability of legal persons for acts of corruption committed by national deputies, members of the committee stressed that the introduction of the institution of liability of legal persons for corruption offences should be based on a comprehensive analysis of a comprehensive and consistent approach and should include, and should include, the emergence of conflicts between various legislative acts and the complexity of the application by law enforcement authorities of the relevant sanctions of ordinary legal persons. The committee thinks it's a bill. In view of the above, the bills are to be returned to work. But I believe and support the opinion of the head of the Supreme Council that today it would be possible for the members of the Supreme Council to agree to ratify conventions on anti-corruption issues and to send bills for work on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u62	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, five minutes, please, Borschewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u63	Please tell me, here's every international document, it's got to take into account the national system that's already in place. The Convention also provided for warnings on behalf of our State that would facilitate the adaptation of this convention to Ukraine. Please ask the question: Is there any warning on our part that was made when these conventions were signed?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I want to say that we have not yet ratified the conventions, so no one has signed them yet. But the fact is that prior to adapting to national legislation, conventions are quite fair because many issues are not in line with national legislation. Well, let's say article 3 of the Constitution defines honor, freedom, dignity, rights and freedoms of citizens as a top priority of the state. Today, if corruption is a subject of corruption by entrepreneurs, laws, their rights and freedoms will be violated, and laws that regulate entrepreneurial activity, namely, there is no agreement between conventions and national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u65	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u66	I'd like to give the floor to the deputy socialist Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u67	Deputy Socialist Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell us that we support today's need to adapt our legislation to international legislation in the fight against corruption. Today, as we see, the international legislation that we want to ratify today, and those laws that the President recommends, are just a little bit and a little bit that reflects what's in European legislation. I think we need to get a little bit tougher here and get sanctions and fines with confiscation and so on. That's one question. And the second question is, how do you feel about creating a specialized professional body to deal with the issue of combating corruption?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u69	Thank you. From the last. My personal opinion about creating a special unit to fight corruption is negative. My opinion is negative. There is no problem in creating additional bodies to fight corruption today. The law enforcement agencies present in the state have sufficient rights and authority to fight crime and corruption objectively. But of all the laws that are passed today in the state, only 20% work. Other laws are dead, they don't work, they don't work. Well, let's say today, the chapter on combating corruption, on bribery in the Criminal Code, it envisions many of the points that are being proposed today for adoption in this law. But it's just a state, law enforcement doesn't work. When we force law enforcement agencies to work today, i.e. M.I.S., B.S.A., the Attorney General's Office. And there will be an effective judicial system, then you can talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u70	Please, Valery Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u71	Please give the word to a colleague of the BUT faction Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u72	Please, Sergio Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich is known to provide financial assistance to Ukraine in the fight against corruption by a number of international donor organizations of individual nations. Are you aware of the fact that money was also used in developing this anticorruption package? If so, from which State? What's the amount? What kind of public or professional organization used them? And can you say that when an anti-corruption package was developed under the authority of the President of Ukraine, there was no indication of corruption? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u74	Thank you. The committee members are aware that $2 million has been allocated to the drafting of this bill. The bill was developed by a private educational institution, and I was tipped off by national deputies. And I think that today there are several basic legal institutions in the country, such as the Ukrainian Law Academy of the Name Jaroslav Wise, the Faculty of Law of the National University, the Institute of State and the Law of the Academy of Sciences, that these bills would have to be tested there and studied so that we can have the conclusions of these scientific institutions. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. So I think it's going to have to be worked out, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let us consult. In fact, the head of the profiling committee reported to us on all three bills. If we do so, we will ask Roman Mikhailovich to report on two more bills. No, no, he reported on the first bill, according to the first bill, he said he would report on two more bills, and then we'll discuss all three of them in general, maybe we'll spend more time on that. No objections? Thank you. Please, Roman Mikhailovich, two more bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u76	Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u77	Please, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u78	Yeah, well, first of all, I had some news that someone gave two million dollars to draft these bills. I'd like to ask the head of the profile committee to name who gave him $2 million. Because I am absolutely responsible for this bill being drafted in the Department of Justice of Ukraine and only in the Department of Justice of Ukraine. It's absolutely authoritative and I'm responsible for that. Yes, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. Again, the bill was introduced in connection with the signing of the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption on behalf of Ukraine and the relevant international conventions of the Council of Europe. In accordance with the law “On International Contracts”, the Ministry has drafted this draft law. This project is, in principle, a new draft law. It's a framework, I emphasize. It will require further changes to national legislation. But it is based on basic requirements for the development of a state-wide system of fighting corruption that is primarily enshrined in the UN convention against corruption. The bill is a basic document, but the novelty of the project is the following items. First of all, the terminology of the project, particularly in the definition of corruption, corruption, the main institutions of the anti-corruption mechanism, I stress the opposition, not the fight against corruption. All of this is in line with the requirements of the UN convention. The other one. For the first time, anti-corruption requirements are set out not only in the sphere of government, i.e. the public sphere, but also in the sphere of private relations, I've already talked about this, this is a general trend now in the world, particularly in European countries. Third. The project introduces a number of new institutions, which are important components of the anti-corruption system, including the identification and resolution of conflicts, interests, the introduction of codes of conduct for certain categories of persons, including government officials. In addition, in the private sphere, public participation in combating corruption, anti-corruption expertise in draft legislation, reporting to the public, these are the requirements of this law. The adoption of this project will help to improve the protection of citizens from crime and to increase resistance to organized crime, etc. Allow me, Your Honor, also a few pens, once again, for the attention of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. I won't talk for long, because there are so many, there are 65, but there are some pearls. It is suggested, for example, to replace the words of the project, “persons who are drawn to responsibility”, with the following words, “subjects of responsibility”. I think you'll all agree that this is an extremely principled observation. It is also proposed to add the word “acquisition” to the third article after the word “requirement”. I think the Ministry of Justice and the President of Ukraine can easily agree with this proposal. Or for example, what do you say to this proposal from the Science and Technology Administration. The following wording is proposed: “illegal legal acts of decision”, followed by the sentence, “be declared illegal”. I mean, illegal acts are illegal. I'm not going to continue this, and again, I'm going to repeat the President's position. We can agree that this bill is, of course, not exactly as perfect as it can be. But for that, there is actually a procedure for preparing the relevant bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Second Reading. Therefore, it is suggested that this bill be approved in the first reading and processed in the process of preparing it for Second Reading. Now with regard to the bill on the liability of legal persons for acts of corruption. The changes proposed by the project are based on the need to ensure the implementation of the draft law on principles, prevention and anti-corruption, as well as the relevant International Conventions to be considered by the Supreme Council today. The main tasks of the project are to bring criminal legislation and legislation on administrative responsibility in accordance with, inter alia, the UN Convention against Corruption. Establishing the responsibility of legal persons for committing corruption and determining how to bring them to justice. I'd like to put a particular emphasis on this, because it seems to me that the members of the committee didn't get away with this position. How is he drawn to responsibility? By identifying a series of corruptions for which a legal person may be called to account and determining the basis for this responsibility and order of implementation in cases of corruption of legal persons. Article 2 provides the basis for the liability of legal persons for corruption. Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the bill provide for offences involving legal persons. That is, offering bribes to an official official of a public authority or local government. Bribery of a person who is not a ministerial servant. A commercial bribe. The offences provided for in this bill are linked with the corresponding crimes that are proposed to be supplemented by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As a gain for committing corruption, it is proposed that a fine be applied in the size, multiple to the size of the offence, a restriction on a certain type of business, or the elimination of a legal person. In addition, the predestination envisaged is the prohibition of a legal person from engaging in a certain type of activity. It is important to note that it is planned to bring a legal person to justice for the existence of an indictment in a criminal case. Again, I would like to point out that, in the case of an accused court, a person who is found guilty of a corrupt crime committed in favour or on behalf of a legal person. As a result of such a decision, the material of the case will be referred to the prosecutor who took part in the relevant criminal case for filing a report and referring it to the court. The project foresees that cases of corruption of legal persons will be dealt with by local general courts. Article 13 of the draft itself defines the type and content of the procurator’s own decision. The adoption of the bill will help bring our legislation closer to international standards, and again, I don't want to talk about the findings of the Science and Technology Administration. It's all about the trailer. In most cases they are technical or literary or editorial in nature, that is, they are one that does not give rise to any denial by the Ministry of Justice. That is, those that can be taken into account if the Supreme Council of Ukraine insists on this in the process of drafting the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading mode. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Yes, ten minutes, please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u80	Thank you, Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. So we're saying that these bills have to be considered in the population, and that's obviously the right thing to do. We're talking about the fact that they're not in line with the current legislation, and that's understandable. But it is not clear why they disagree with each other. For example, the system of sanctions for legal persons under this project is defined in three elements. At the same time, Bill 2113 mentions such, I think very important sanctions, such as banning legal persons who are held accountable for committing corruption of funds and property. It is forbidden for legal persons to carry out activities on behalf of the State. And finally, the publication of information on these corruptions. I think it's very important, and it could be implemented. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u81	First. As far as your trailer is concerned about the non-conformity of these bills with the existing national legislative base, I didn't say that. All I was saying was that ratification of the relevant conventions would require the completion and refinement of our national legislative base and there was no explanation. It's more likely that we're expanding the base itself. By the way, by adopting the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act, which is considered to be a framework document, and again to the UN Convention on Combating Corruption, we will still have to develop other regulatory instruments to bring them into line with this Act. And as for what you said about sanctions, you were just reading from a scientific and experimental conclusion that I understood from your words. When we raised that question at a European Integration Committee meeting, it turned out that it was there that the Scientific and Experimental Authority made a mistake that could testify to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u82	Ribakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u83	I give the word to Oliynik Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u84	Stephen Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u85	Revoslav Olijnik, Committee of Law Enforcement. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, as a law enforcement officer, yes, I know what this is about when it comes to fighting corruption. So what I want to remind you is that the problem that today is in the department of fighting is their focus on quantity, not quality. And because of that, I don't think you'll be able to tell us the facts of this year or last year, the pull for the corrupt actions of some, well, at the level, at least by the government. So please tell the drafters, this respected department, when they were developing, if they were based on an analysis of the real painting, the real, today's fight against corruption, they were using analytical data at all? And in your opinion, will it not lead to the adoption of these laws to the proliferation of quantity, to the increase in the number of anti-corruption rates at the expense of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u86	I understood the questions. But frankly, what you're talking about is the least of my worries. It's not because I don't care about this disgraceful phenomenon. And you're absolutely right about the fact that so far, the appropriate authorities that were created to determine whether they were authorized to fight that phenomenon, they made the appearance that they were fighting in many cases. And in fact, this disgraceful phenomenon was only spreading. So it's clear that something is wrong with this system when all international experts are saying that Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. And of course, if we realize this fact, we need to change the system. These bills propose to do so. And that's why you can either go the normal way, go on living in the, well, mud where we're with you, or take a decisive step and understand what there are international approaches and time for Ukraine to finally apply them in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u87	Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u88	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u89	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u90	Dear Minister for Ratification, our faction certainly supports the decision to ratify the laws that linked Ukrainian and European legislation to the fight against corruption. But I don't understand about the three laws that you're reporting now, why does the proposal to reduce the responsibility of officials for bribes and increase the responsibility of the same representatives in commercial structures? Do officials in Ukraine take less bribes? And has the official ceased to be the principal subject of corruption? Because without an official, the very fact of corruption cannot happen. And we don't really understand the weakening, our block, the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, doesn't understand why there's a proposal to lower responsibility for the corruption of officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u91	Of course, when you look at one or the other of these laws and talk about how one or the other lines is softened, you might reach such a conclusion. I would ask you to still look at these bills and relevant conventions as an integral whole. Now in our legislation, especially in the Criminal Code, there is a rule that a briber and a briber are punished in the same way. Of course, it creates such a situation that neither side nor side is interested in talking about what either bribed or bribed. And we, in a word, were talking about, by the way, I know the numbers, because here I had a question, less than 3,000 cases in the last three years of corruption. Clearly, there is something that needs to be changed at the very disposal. How we approach this problem. Thus, by reducing the penalties on one type of criminal activity, we have created other conditions that can still be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u92	Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u93	Basil Volga, secretary of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption Roman Mikhailovich, you're doing the President's bear service on a regular basis. Well, I don't think there's anyone here who doubts your competence. We know that, we've seen it over and over again. But still, please tell me the concept of diplomacy when these bills are presented and just correct expressions, not such a belligerent setup. All for fighting corruption. But I would like to point out one thing that was the meeting of our committee with the representatives of PARJE about these bills. And what's interesting is that Switzerland's representatives were most surprised to learn that they've had democracy for 300 years, and they've been doing it quite recently. And now we want to give our strong structures virtually unlimited rights. Even the seed - selling grandmother will become the subject of corruption, the subject of corruption. And, really, you know, I'm asking you to do a little bit more right in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u94	Of course, as a member of the government responsible to Parliament, I accept your remark. Although then, Mr. Volga, allow me to answer and then announce in this session room the fact that it actually caused such a reaction not only to my own but also to the President's. Was it not so that at a meeting of a committee of profile attended by the minister himself, a decision was taken by a vote of 12 to 5 to approve these bills in the first reading? Was that so or not? And then the next day, the decision was overturned and another decision was made. Surprisingly, the same number of votes is only 12 against, and 5 against, without a minister, and the Ministry of Justice has not even been informed that these bills will be considered. We happened to find out. It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the conventions, and later, after considering these bills, this decision is overturned and another decision is taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u95	Okay. Have a seat, please. And one more question. Chevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u96	Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. You've obviously pointed out that both the Chief of the Supreme Council and the representative of the BUTT faction have said that the ratification issues of the Convention should not be complicated. Yet, from your mouth there was a kind of ultimatum that, if Parliament sends the author of the legislative initiative to the President, and that's absolutely correct, the drafts for the work, because you yourself agreed that if at least 10 observations of the scientific and expert administration are correct, it would trigger a kind of reaction -- the President would take this issue out of consideration at all. That's my question. Why is there a session here, a session session, where we can put these ultimatums, because we all understand that in Ukraine we have to do everything we can to overcome corruption? Please agree that your comments are not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u97	Mr. Sergei, I thank you for your observation, but I would like to point out one more time that in this case I am not acting as the minister of justice, but I am speaking as the representative of the President, as the one who was authorized by the President to present this bill. And then, when I make the appropriate statements, believe me, I do them by agreeing with the subject of the legislative initiative. As far as the essence of yours is concerned. Your lockers. Of course, it would be possible to finalize this bill, but then please tell me how best to do it -- by sending the President for work and thus we'll be very long and boring to deal with this question, or to approve, as it happens in a dozen, maybe even hundreds of other cases. To approve as a basis, i.e. to approve the ideology itself, which is set out in the bills themselves, and there is no reason not to do so, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ready, I understand, to take decisions on ratification and to finalize the bills where they are to be worked out – at the level of the Professional Committee, with the participation of the legislator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I have a 15-minute extension of my right, but I think. That we're going to use a shorter period of time, because there's a need for two factions to make brief statements for three minutes, and I want to offer you, let's say, an algorithm to work on these documents. After the break, we'll discuss them, but I would like you to take into account my proposal of this content: I have the impression that the conflict between the President and the Parliament is happening artificially right now. And there is no cause for conflict. We are “for” the adoption of this law, but we want this law to be perfect so that it does not destroy the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes and other documents. So my proposal is this: these are the three laws that need to be worked out, which are in good conscience to prepare for the expert management's first reading, but not for the President, but for the committee that is a profile. We have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u99	I'll repeat: there is such a right. Anatoly Sergiyovich, read the Rules. And give the commission: to prepare it, taking into account the expert's comments, the discussion that will take place here. And put on the first reading, and the convention to ratify with a reference to what we're putting into effect these conventions after the laws are passed. Why do I say that? Because if we go back now, it's essentially going to be the subject of a legislative initiative, it's just going to be a constant discussion on this issue in a society that nobody needs. It's an unnecessary problem, and no one seems to care. I would like us to speed up the consideration of this issue in substance and to discuss this proposal during the discussion after lunch, after lunch. And now the word is given to Mikola Onichuku, please. To whom? Ah, Hennaday the Widow. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, honourable colleagues, I have been instructed to announce a statement by the faction “Our Ukraine” on the need to speed up Ukraine's entry into SOTA. The “Our Ukraine” faction claims that it is necessary as soon as possible for the Supreme Council to adopt the bills necessary to complete Ukraine's acquisition of membership in the world trade organisation before the end of 2006. The introduction to the WTO not only paves the way for the State to create a free trade zone with the European Union, but also gives the Ukrainian economy additional competitive advantages in international markets. Today, more than 90% of world trade in goods and services is being carried out among 148 WTO member countries. The estimated increase in foreign investment in the economy of Ukraine at the time of entry into WTO will be more than 1.2% of GDP, and Ukrainian producers will be able to defend their interests in trade disputes on an equal footing. Not only do Ukrainian producers win from the entrance to the U.S.A. but Ukrainian consumers also win. We state that the efforts of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring about the review and adoption of the necessary laws and to lift Ukraine's entry into the WTO are not, in fact, in the interests of Ukraine or the interests of the Ukrainian people. Obviously, the antichrist coalition and its officials ignore the interests of their own people, defending the interests of another state. The faction "Our Ukraine" demands that the members of the faction of the anti-crisis coalition carry out the 21st paragraph of the Universal National Unity, and in accordance with the initiatives of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine by 27 October this year, consider and approve all the bills necessary to join the WTO, taking into account the national interests of Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is on the final road of becoming a member of the World Trade Organization. Procrastination is unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u101	We take this statement into account, because the claims to parliament are absolutely groundless. If you want to speed up this work, prepare the bills, we'll take them right away. I'll say it again. During the following month of November until December 1st, as scheduled, we will adopt laws that will be prepared qualitatively and I am convinced that all will be prepared. And to do it by October 26, when I realize it's fantastic, I can't do it, I think it's incorrect and on the part of the authors, too. We should still be pragmatic and not use the complexity of drafting a bill as a reason for conflict and other things. I'm not going to talk in more detail. Break to 12.35 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u102	We're continuing the morning session. Who wants to make a statement on these faction bills? Sign up. They've been recorded by factions. Now from the deputies, please, who wants to? We take 30 minutes to get those who sign up. Borschewski from the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u103	National MP Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable colleagues, respected voters, today the most painful problem in our society is the problem of corruption. And I, in principle, welcome the opinion of the distinguished minister that corruption is a systemic disease. And I believe that, in principle, why do we have, in addition to the declaration against corruption, no longer go, because the roots of corruption lie, not in the legal sphere, but in the socio-economic sphere. And if we don't remove the root of this ambrosia, and only the leaves are broken, we will never win corruption. But if we move on to a specific convention, to a bill, I have great concern, however paradoxically, that if we adopt it in this way, we will not have corruption reduced and vice versa increased. Because one of the soils on which corruption is growing is the uncertainty of legislation, the contradiction of the laws on which officials today, judicial officials, are engaged in making corrupt decisions. There are many such contradictions in these laws. This is also the non-compliance of laws relating to persons with other laws, and there is even a conflict with the Constitution. The powers of officials, their sphere of influence, their sphere of responsibility, which is already a constitutional rule, are distributed. Second moment. I am very concerned that this convention has been signed, that today we are only ratifying, and that it has already been signed, without reservation, because we have our own system. And we can ratify today, but then there are guarantees that we can implement and that we can ratify just to prevent ratification. And most of all. Dear colleagues! Let us, however, take more seriously the fight against corruption and start not to declare and try any laws, but to take root in the system that produces this corruption. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u105	I propose not to bring this convention into force before the adoption of laws, but that laws be systematically recast, based on all our legislation, and then only to introduce them into the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots. The importance of these bills, which have been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of the State, is beyond question. Projects in connection with Ukraine’s signing on December 12, 2003, in Merida, Mexico, of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In particular, Act No. 2113 expands the list of subjects of corruption. Draft Law No. 2114 brings Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of the UN conventions on combating transnational organized crime, the UN convention on combating corruption. Council of Europe conventions on combating corruption in the context of criminal law. Without doubt, the need to intensify the fight against corruption, along with this, is seen as the need to note the following. On January 23, 2005, the newly elected president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, spoke on the Maidan of Independence, said: “We will create a system of authority that will be honest with people. No one will give or take bribes, against.” It's been over a year and a half. Moreover, the situation during the presidency of Viktor Yushchenko has developed in corruption new personality names: “Dear friends! Godfathers!” and “Vehicle of Reforms” and now there. So today, the central and local authorities need to roll up their sleeves and work to improve the investment image of our nation. And a determined fight against corruption is one of the most important stages of this path. However, part of the provisions that have been tabled for Parliament’s consideration of the bills raises concerns about experts. Despite the great social significance introduced by the President in the bill package, the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Committee on Organised Crime and Corruption made a number of significant remarks about the bill's drafts. Thus, according to members of the Committee, the adoption by the Supreme Council of Bill 2113 on the Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption would pose a threat to the rule of law. It will violate the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of individual individuals and legal persons. According to members of the committee, the bill requires serious elaboration of the definition of “corruption”, “neighbourly relatives”, “conflict of interest”, terms defining the subject of corruption offences, clarifying the list of subjects. The faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions supports the need to increase the fight against corruption in our country and to harmonize domestic legislation in this area with international criteria. But the legislation that regulates these matters should be very precise and not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u108	Thank you. I just want to clarify one thing. Now is the time that we should, if we make a complaint about the content of the reform or something, refer it to our own address. Economic reforms are primarily the responsibility of government and parliament. The President has other functions now. I'd like us to keep that in mind. Come on, Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u109	Alexander Turchinov. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Dear colleagues! I don't think any of the deputies here are going to deny, in any case, in their public speeches that corruption must be combated. That's what everyone talks about, and during election campaigns, and that's what everyone says during their performances. Another problem. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, in recent times we have seen that the real fight against corruption is being replaced, sorry, it is simply a banal “bolt.” And the real fight against corruption is in real, open criminal cases. And here, unfortunately, we don't have any promotions in the country. There are briefings, there are speeches, there are interesting press conferences for journalists, but no serious criminal case in the last year against corruption in Ukraine is open. And this is a covert fact, dear colleagues. We have again “shooters” and, unfortunately, in the proposed laws, we see again that instead of a rigid, consistent fight against officials, first of all, who are the main subject of corruption, it is proposed to find new “shooters” such as notaries, small private entrepreneurs, etc. And in this we will see that again in the new wave of our so-called fight against corruption, instead of the high officials who sign criminal agreements with the same Rosukrenerego who accept billions of bribes, we will again see small entrepreneurs who have broken something or not heard anything. Unfortunately, this is becoming a sad tradition. So, my dear colleagues, I think we should certainly adopt, first of all, legislation that deals with the ratification of our relations with Europe in the fight against corruption. We want to have civilised legislation on this issue. But with regard to the three laws reported by the Honourable Minister of Justice. Regrettably, these laws do not meet the declared positions or the urgent needs of Ukrainian intelligence to combat this presumptuous evil. That's why we need to decide with you whether a capable committee, one, or whether we have a number of professional committees that can do this, to work on these bills. I can honestly tell you, I would still advise against rejecting them back to the President, because the experts who worked today have unfortunately shown that they lacked the quality of their work. And really take them to the committees and make them good laws to make this fight work. And the effectiveness, I emphasize, will be when we see open criminal cases against specific high-ranking people, not those gunmen who are once again offering to accuse us of some mythical corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you for the constructive offer. The word has Bogchuk from the faction of socialists. He will be followed by Oneichtuk of “Our Ukraine. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u111	Dear Head! Deputies! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Yesterday, on television channels, we saw news that the President stressed the need for the adoption of six anti-corruption laws, as well as the following line, that the President had entrusted the Ukrainian Security Service with monthly information on the offence, the corruption of officials. It turns out that Ukraine’s Security Service of the month should not engage in the fight against corruption, not attracting the guilty to criminal, administrative responsibility, but simply gathering information. Today, the minister, bringing statistics, told us that Ukraine is one of the most corrupt states. We also have an analysis of the fact that among the 10 most corrupt bodies in Ukraine, there are those that are called upon by the Anti-Corruption Act. And there's no doubt about it. And that is why there is a dangerous symbiosis in Ukraine today. That is, the bodies in which corruption and corruption - related wrongdoing are involved are called upon to fight corruption, and the same is true. They all work under the same roof. And today they do both violations, and the performers are, and the controllers, and so on. That is why, I believe that since the law has placed on us the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exercise direct control over the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Act, we must take this issue more seriously today. If we want the laws that we are going to adopt today to be more effective, we need to adopt a law alongside the adoption of these laws on the creation of a new, independent special unit that would eradicate this common phenomenon in our society daily and professionally. The experience of the highly developed countries, as well as the countries of the new democracy, shows that there is a result of the fight against corruption, which involves special departments entrusted with these powers of government. To give today’s new laws before, to give new laws additional powers to those organs that are most corrupt today, is tens of times dangerous. And today we want, we must not let that happen. As far as today is concerned, this law must be adopted with certainty. But it is also necessary to correct those mistakes that are of a technical nature that need to be changed and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u112	Thank you. That's it. Faction leecher, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u113	Levchenko Catherine Borissovna, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished deputies, distinguished radio listeners. I want to say that today in this room we have a so-called moment of truth. Because a lot of pre-election programs all parties claimed that we would actively fight corruption. And today is exactly the moment when we can demonstrate the only front that all the statements that were made in the electoral promises are not a statement, but a real practice and our work. And I want to remind you that the fight against corruption was the slogan of the President of Ukraine, who fulfilled his promises that the fight against corruption is the motto of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who said that he would be active in fighting it. And I want all the factions present in this room to support these bills that will help both the government and the President fight corruption. As far as the comments are concerned. Many times it was mentioned that 127 comments were sent, but not more than 10 of them applied to the legal content of these documents. Others, as already shown by the minister of justice, were of a purely technical nature. But some of them are thought to be controversial and wrong. Let's say that the definition of corruption that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is offering us is surprising, because corruption suggests that we understand the provision of benefits to the right person in order to induce them to misuse their powers and related capabilities. What, though, about the situation where an official insinuates that he wishes or does not deny that he will illegally receive benefits for the execution or failure to do something about the exercise of authority and the related possibilities? Another example. Many papers conclude that the cost of the authors ’ efforts to refer to international documents prove that corruption cannot be materially beneficial. But the explanatory note to the European Council’s criminal convention against corruption points out that even intangible benefits are subject to corruption. That's why I think that these bills should be together and the laws on ratification of international conventions, and the laws that have been developed to implement these conventions of national legislation to be supported in the first reading and then already worked on the committees to prepare for the second reading. I would not like to see the conclusion on the Supreme Council Committee's website that these laws violate the interests of individual individuals and legal persons refer to MPs who vote against the adoption of anti-corruption legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u114	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I particularly want to address my colleagues from the faction of “Regions” today, because the faction position has already spoken here, my position will be somewhat different. There are priorities both for the President and for the Prime Minister and for the Head of Parliament and for the entire Parliament, this is the priority of fighting corruption. But our highest priority is to prioritise the agreement between the three branches of government. And I think that today we should listen to the wise proposal of the Head of Parliament and do as Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich suggests, work out these bills in, here, in parliament with a view not to making problems in the relationship between Parliament and the President. We have to hide our ambitions today, because we can win ambitions today, but losing the cause is a priority for us to work together and work together for all branches of government. And once again, here's Alexander Alexander Frost's proposal that I think is right, and I'm asking you to listen to it. I also ask you, Your Honor, to forgive the Minister of Justice for the peremptory tone he has spoken to us today. We think the minister won't let himself talk to the MPs like that anymore. But besides that, I would like us to have the answer to the questions where the $2 million that Minus Canada has allocated to the Ukraine to fight corruption. Where did that money go? Were they really selected by the Kharkiv Institute of Humanitarian Research to develop these bills? If so, was there a tender? Why was the money given to this institution? We should have the answers to these questions, and I ask you once again to support that initiative, that proposal that the Head of the Supreme Council has made to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u116	Thank you. It's coming up fast. Behind him, Mischenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u117	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Quickly, a faction of socialists. I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues to the discussion that took place today in the hall. That's right, part of the discussion. It was about, in the discussion, who should we go to -- whether we should adapt to international treaties or international communities in the drafting of these treaties, projects should be adapted to Ukraine. I mean, there was always a goat going to the car, not a car going to the goat. Therefore, when drawing conclusions on how we should work with international conventions, we should always take into account that the international conventions that are offered to us are more perfect. And I want to look at it, and I want to demonstrate it right now because we have two conventions on the fight against corruption: one convention applies, it was the Council of Europe, once proposed as a resolution, and another convention in 2003 that we will discuss later is the Oonova convention. Notice, then, that there is a much broader circle of corruption in the Ooniah convention. Furthermore, the convention contains a separate chapter on anti-corruption measures that regulate these issues by establishing the obligations of participating States to pursue coordinated policies and practices to prevent and combat corruption and to create bodies that fight and fight corruption. Basic principles for combating corruption in the private and public sectors have been identified. In particular, aspects such as Public Officials Codes of Conduct, State Procurement, Public Finance Management, Public Reporting, Judicial Procedures, and Prosecutor’s Offices, etc. I think as we speak of these conventions, the Minister of Justice will tell us more about what we are talking about. But the second question I wanted to point out was that the fight against corruption should not be about whether someone was arrested or not. And were there any objections to the court after that arrest? That's what I think this is about. Sadly, social stereotypes of tolerance in relation to corruption and organized crime have strengthened. In the mass consciousness of the major social groups, it is thought that corruption does not harm or harm society. Hence, certain segments of the population choose corruption to solve certain or other everyday problems. Let's remember that an honest clerk often doesn't have the population as a whole, or entrepreneurs as the most active part of it. Therefore, when we accept these laws, we should also consider the public work that we should do through laws with our population in the fight against corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u118	Thank you. The word Mishchenko has, he combines his performance with the performance of Lašchenka and performs for six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u119	Sergey Mishchenko, faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm asking you to accept my statement that this is not against the initiator of the bill, it's only a desire to make these laws so that people will live behind them for centuries. Therefore, we need to approach this issue from a governmental point of view. With this, I think the President of Ukraine will also agree that the time has come to work together, to involve all the relevant institutions of the state, and I must, I must stress, with the involvement of the public to develop an anti-corruption strategy of our country, which we do not have, and this is one of the comments of the Council of Europe. What do we have today? And we have statistics show that 63% of our citizens are willing to bribe for solving their legitimate issues. The people say you give bribes, and everything goes according to the law. Will the adoption of these bills in this regard solve the problem of bribes by our people? I am sure that this bill will not improve the situation of Ukraine in the fight against corruption, but will make it worse because it is prepared at a low professional level. I just think the president's been set up. We will need not only to adapt the conventions to our legislation but also to adapt these three laws to our own legislation. You think this bill increases the responsibility of government officials, officials, kicks the ground out of those officers' feet? It's nothing like that. What the minister said first of all is that you won't find any reference to the law in these bills that fight this negative phenomenon. These bills aim at the entire Ukrainian law enforcement system to seek corruption in the private sector, because some bills extend to corruption, from political parties and public organisations to lawyers and private businesses and legal persons. From these new corruptionists, he creates articles of the Criminal Code to put them in place. We have just before this list of corrupts to add a housewife, a doorman, and a mailman to report that the fight against corruption in Ukraine is over. We are confident that this approach is not needed by society. This approach, not to intensify the fight against civil war, is like years of total repression against ordinary citizens. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that countries with many years of democracy in their majority have only adopted changes in their legislation regarding the expansion of the circle of persons involved in corruption. And the conventions themselves urge us to adhere to the principles of our national law. Moreover, the Council of Europe Criminal Convention itself offers the opportunity to apply for a long period of three or more years the gradual expansion of the scope of the use of corruption, the so-called warnings that my colleagues have been saying. Therefore, with our democracy, and as the people say, gangocracy, we have not overcome corruption in state institutions of all levels, but have begun to open up military action against those who are not protected by law or by law - ordinary Ukrainians. The adoption of the law can cause considerable damage to the legitimate interests of legal persons, which in turn does not lead to an increase in the fight against corruption, but leads to the survival of our entrepreneurs in our country. Because both citizens and private entrepreneurs are constantly feeling the pressure of a government car. Because there are no fair tenders, no fair taxation, no transparent participation in the privatization of state and municipal property in the distribution of land. First of all, we need to take out the potential abuse of our position in the hands of state-level corruption officials, put them in conditions where the employer can make the only right decision on a legal person, not wait for bribes. As ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle put it, the most important thing in the state system is to make sure that government officials are not able to profit from it. And who's to protect our businesses from the thrills of what's called a raider? I believe and stress that it is better to make a few declarative laws that change the strategic direction of our legislation. So I'm sure that we, we need to create conditions for these bills to be drafted so that we can take a completely different view of the fight against corruption and conceptually, otherwise solve these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u120	Thank you for the constructive offer. Widow Hennady Josephovich, please. Naughty, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u121	The honourable presiding, honourable national deputies, despite a sufficiently sharp tone of discussion about a topic that is really painful for Ukrainian society, it is worth noting that many MPs, national deputies, have expressed quite constructive thoughts that should bring us closer to making the only right decision. And I'd like to support Mrs. Anna Herman, who said that we have to think in these matters national rather than corporate political interests, even though they do exist. Dear colleagues, there was also an MP, a national MP, who said that only by legal means can the problem of combating corruption be solved. But at the same time, we can't minimize the importance of the tools that we are discussing today, especially when it comes to amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code on the establishment of the responsibility of those persons who are given public authority, or whether they are part of a private enterprise, I mean the director, the appointment of a director or other executive director, or even more so when it comes to heads of state institutions, organizations, businesses or community institutions and organizations. I don't think we have to criticize science and expertise today. Despite the fact that some of the comments they have made are of a controversial nature, but there are also scientists working there and they have a right to some subjective point of view. And it seems to me that the committee, the committee of profile, should just consider all the circumstances, both social and professional, and political, and offer us another point of view and another proposal. The point is that if we decide today to send a bill for rereading first, it does not change anything, fellow citizens, because the committee does not have the right to interfere with the body proposed by the author, the subject of the legislative initiative, the bill. He can only change his own perspective. Is the committee ready for this? Perhaps he is ready to invite more experts, experts, and thus review the decision he has made. But you have to think about the limit of possible when you talk about it. Dear colleagues! And it's wrong to suggest that we just ratify the bill without first reading, because the ratification itself is ideologically, I mean, in terms of the content of the convention, it's already directed by Ukrainian legislation, in particular to act and change in some way. Therefore, the only right decision today would be to ratify conventions with warnings that before the expiration date. And the bills are to be adopted in the first reading, so that scientists and experts and the committee, right here, will make an effort to improve these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u122	Thank you. These three bills were discussed. I will sum up our discussion, and there are actually two approaches. One relates to what Mikola Vasilovich has just proposed, to accept in the first reading and to assign the profile committee to prepare for the second reading of this project, taking into account all the comments, suggestions, and so forth. There was another suggestion, which was also made here, including me, that this committee should professionally elaborate this bill and re-read it, taking into account, firstly, the requirements of the convention. It's different. Note by the expert board. Third, taking into account the proposals made during the discussion or that will be made by other entities of the legislative initiative, by deputies or government representatives, by the Ministry of Justice, and so forth. Which will then be formed, as the subject-matter of the legislative initiative, in any case, all agree that these laws, the direction defined, should be strengthened and, in a direct respect, provided properly. I would like it not to be about dragging a rope, who's more important here, who's more literate or something, because in itself the phenomenon that has become a sign of our society today, social relations, needs to be intervened by Parliament in the form of appropriate legislation. Including the adoption of a convention that has already been tested in other countries and, in fact, we only join in such methods of combating this evil. I'd like to hear what I'm saying, because I'm already what you're yelling at, I've just said about it. So I would like to send you back to 109 articles of the Rules of Procedure. The third paragraph says this, this is the result of the first reading of the bill. The paragraph states: “The Supreme Council may decide to return the bill to the subject’s right of legislative initiative to redraft or refer it to the Main Committee for re-reading, setting out the basic positions, principles, criteria to be reported by the amended bill or its structural parts. This is what we're going to do, we're going to vote separately on three bills, or in this option, or that we're going to propose colleagues, and then we're going to look at the conventions separately, and we're going to adopt them, and we're going to vote in favour of them, and we're going to say that we're going to introduce them after the adoption of the relevant laws. Because we cannot create a conflict in the law when the rule of international law that becomes the norm of our legislation conflicts with the Code of Procedure or the Criminal Code of Ukraine. If you do not object to such an offer, I would like to ask a question in such a sequence. But first of all, let me put out a proposal for a rating vote: are we going to re-read the committee, or are we going to send it on, or are we going to vote in the first reading? It's gone now. Come on, then, let's propose what the committee defines. But the committee is putting a return on the subject of the legislative initiative. I don't think we should do that. Therefore, the profile committee made an offer to redesign the subject of the legislative initiative. During the discussion, we found that it was not appropriate to do so, but by procedure I am obliged to make it as a proposal, so please let me put it. This is Bill No. 2112 on amending certain legislation on liability for corruption. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. For – 6 Now I'm putting forward a proposal that, by the way, I've been talking about sending this project to the Main Committee to prepare for the re-first reading, taking into account the proposals that I've already mentioned here, please vote. For -334. A Decision Is Made Now, in the same sequence, I'm putting in a draft of the Anti-Corruption Act. We discussed it, there was a report. And the proposal was for the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative, but it was not supported in the session room. Anyway, I'm making a proposal to the committee, please identify yourself. For - 12 This proposal is not supported. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the Main Committee for re-reading. Please identify yourself. For -401. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences is now being voted on. Project No. 2114, in the same sequence. First, the committee's proposals. And I answer those who doubt: The Rules provide for the subject of the legislative initiative to be introduced, and the Procedural Committee proposes and provides a draft decision on this matter. Please make your first offer. For – 2 That is not the decision to make. Now, the proposal to send this document back to the Main Committee for Re-reading. Please. To 411. The decision is made. Now the issue of ratification. A draft law on the ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption is under consideration. Registration No. 0039. Roman Mikhailovich, please to the rostrum. I ask you not to violate the Rules, individually every bill. It's about what laws we can give in. But there are various international documents that cannot be combined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act “On Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption”, registration number 0039. The convention was signed on behalf of Ukraine on December 11, 2003. It's open for signature by all States. The objectives of the convention are: to promote the use and strengthening of measures aimed at more effective and effective prevention of corruption; I stress, again, the prevention of corruption; the encouragement and support of international cooperation and technical assistance in preventing corruption; the promotion of honesty and integrity; and the proper management of public affairs and public property. These goals are achieved, particularly through the application of anti-corruption convention provisions. Under this Act, each participating State shall develop and implement or pursue an effective and coordinated anti-corruption policy in accordance with the basic principles of its legal system. The draft law provides for a declaration in accordance with the provisions of the convention itself. I'd like to put a particular emphasis on that. In accordance with article 44, part 6 of article 44, subparagraph (a), of the Ukrainian Convention, I declare that it will consider the Convention to be a legal basis for cooperation on the issue of the extradition of offenders in relation to States parties to this Convention for the absence of an agreement between them on the issue of the right of gunmen. According to part 13 of article 46 of the Convention, the central authorities on which the Convention is based are the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for Requests and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for Requests for Judicial Investigations. Furthermore, according to article 46, part 14, of the Ukrainian Convention, I declare that requests for legal aid and documents to be added to them should be sent to Ukraine along with certified translations into Ukrainian, Russian, English, or French if they are not made up of one of these languages. Ratification by Ukraine will help produce a positive image of the State. In this regard, I propose to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Roman Mikhailovich, I have a proposal to make to her. To discuss two conventions immediately, since they are thematically linked, please report immediately to the second convention. And then the committee head will make a report, again, at two conventions. We'll talk about them and we'll figure out how to ratify them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u125	The will of the meeting room for the minister, of course, is the law. Your attention, Your Honor, is being proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. This act was signed on behalf of Ukraine on January 27, 99, in Strasbourg. The convention took effect on July 1, 2002. As of September 19, the convention was signed by 48 member states of the Council of Europe. Of these, 34 have already given their consent to be bound by this convention. The aim of the convention is to strengthen state cooperation in the fight against corruption, to produce international criminal law standards in this area, and to implement a common policy aimed at protecting society from this negative phenomenon. In short, by ratifying this act, this convention, we agree that European standards will become our normative standards within our nation. Experience in recent years has shown that the problem of fighting corruption, which is increasingly having an international dimension, is largely two of the problems that arise in investigating transnational corruption. First of all, these are differences in the qualification of such actions in the national legislation of the State. And secondly, this is the imperfection of the mechanisms of international cooperation. In fact, this convention provides for such cooperation so that we can, all the states of the Council of Europe, work on the same standards, but also on the same mechanisms that will enable us to work more effectively in this area. The Convention stipulates that the so-called group of States against corruption is monitoring the implementation of the requirements of this Act. It's short-circuited. Since January 1, 2006, after the ratification of the relevant international instrument, Ukraine has been a member of the group. The Convention provides for the possibility of making statements and warnings to a series of statements. In particular, the draft law provides for a declaration to article 29 of the convention according to which the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine are appointed by the central authorities responsible for requesting, providing answers to requests and so on. I mean, it's similar to the Oonov convention. In this regard, it is suggested that we approve. And your thoughts are also proposed by the draft Law on Ratification of an Additional Protocol to this Convention, which I have just introduced. This protocol was signed on behalf of Ukraine on May 15, 2003, in Strasbourg. The protocol came into force on February 1, last year. On September 19, the Protocol was signed by 30 States, 17 of which have already expressed their consent to be bound by the Protocol. The purpose of the protocol is to supplement the criminal convention on the fight against corruption, such as the provisions of the protocol, which must be taken at national level to establish criminal responsibility in its legislation for a number of criminal acts involving the professional activities of arbitrators and jurors. Again, in view of the importance of these three international acts, international conventions, which, in the event of the taking of effect, will strengthen the international image of our nation and, of course, will also enable us to overcome this shameful phenomenon in part. All three international instruments are proposed to ratify. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u126	Is there a question before. Any questions? Please sign in. Please, Voropeyev. Five minutes to ask. But I said, "Voropeev."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u127	I asked you to pass the word to Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u128	Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u129	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I have a question. Indeed, the conventions are serious, the issue should be ratified and there are no problems. But I'm interested in how you answer that question. Today, 50 dollars, 30 - dollar TVs, and so on, will be shipped to Ukraine. Corruption is clean, it's on the face. In Russia, the average output is about 250 dollars. So if we ratify this convention, it's going to be some help to our nation to keep the budget going.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u130	Of course, this convention does not specifically refer to these problems that you have mentioned. For this there are other legislative acts that can be fought against these also phenomena that you've talked about. But in any case, these three international conventions will create at least a legal basis for us to be able to make a substantial change in the situation today in Ukraine. That is why I keep stressing that new approaches are being taken. I would very much ask you, honourable national deputies, to read these conventions carefully, because then you will understand in the very sense what methods, successful programs, anti-corruption programs have been carried out in those countries that maybe 10-15 years ago were in the same conditions as we did, and today can be proud of what really is in the way of overcoming this phenomenon, including in the dimensions that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u131	Thank you for your answer. Roman Mikhailovich, do not doubt that our deputies read perfectly, read deeply all the documents discussed in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u132	I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u133	Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u134	Dear Minister, Basil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. When I get to know the ratification bills, I think they're better European patterns and standards. And we need to bring our legislation to Europe and to the world today. And they need to be accepted, clearly, but I have a question, there, in one of the conventions, is the declaration of all state officials of a number of kinds and volumes, that is, the provision of information. Will we enter into conflict? And who will be entrusted with these responsibilities — the gathering of this information and so on? Because there's a very interesting information here that's going to be interesting not only within Ukraine, but also outside, and about species, investment volumes, and the volume of assets, and what's behind the service activity, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u135	I see. Ladies and gentlemen, not only is the language used here, but it does require government officials and officials to declare their incomes. Then it is also an obligation for public authorities and local authorities to report to the public and for the State to ensure public control, particularly in this part. This will require further, rather serious changes to current legislation, which was proposed in the three bills that we have successfully considered in paws just recently. Instead, these acts also require that the State monitor not only for income but for expenses incurred by government officials, for there is no way to understand the situation when government officials or officials, knowing their wages, drive expensive cars or live in very luxurious chambers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u136	That's an interesting subject. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u137	I'm done, actually. The question is, For what income? We've been dealing with this problem for 15 years. It is time for us to finally look into the truth and say that we must overcome this shameful phenomenon. And this part actually offers a completely transparent mechanism that duplicates public control -- monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u138	Slippery, please. Since he has not been able to say and the time has run out, Roman Mikhailovich, please sit down. Jiga Mikola Vasilovich, head of the committee of profile, has the floor. He will also report from two documents. Determination of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u139	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The United Nations Convention against Corruption was signed on behalf of Ukraine on December 11, 2003, and according to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The convention proposes measures that need to be taken at national level to prevent corruption more effectively and effectively and to promote and support international cooperation in this area and beyond. The convention is used to prevent the prosecution and prosecution of corruption and to halt arrest operations, confiscation of proceeds of crimes recognized as such in accordance with the convention. It has been reported that, according to the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office and the decision of the committee under the bill under the convention, it has been decided to send it back for further work. But given the opinion of the National Deputies today, I propose that we address the issue of ratification positively, that is, ratifying this convention. That's the first question, after the first convention. Next. Bill No. 0041. The Additional Protocol to the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption was signed on behalf of Ukraine on 15 May 2003 in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts is subject to ratification. The current legislation deals mainly with the liability of arbitrators and jurors for crimes related to their professional activity and the liability of those persons, by some exception in general, being in line with the provisions of the Additional Protocol. This bill is also in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration recommended for deviation and direction of processing. The same position as the committee. But I also propose to ratify this protocol of the Criminal Convention. And Bill 0040. As has already been pointed out, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that Ukraine is bound by the provisions of the convention on strengthening State cooperation in the fight against corruption, the development of international criminal law standards in this area, and a common policy aimed at protecting society from this negative phenomenon. And also after this bill, there are recommendations from the Scientific and Expert Office to send him out for work, and the committee's decision is the same. But I'm offering to ratify. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u140	Is there a question for the reporter? There's one in Zybenko. One question, please. That's why two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u141	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Your Honor, I still want you to clarify the position of the committee. This is about ratification without question whether it is about ratifying the document on condition that the laws are put into effect after its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u142	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u143	That's what this is about, because you didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Thank you for asking. The point is that ratification of the convention takes effect only after the adoption of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u145	Mikola Vasilovich, then I have one more question. These conventions are accompanied by ratification laws. These laws have little warning, which obliges Ukraine to do one or the other. That's why I've come to realize that we're adopting these laws with content that is defined in the proposals, but in the end, we're writing, "they go into action after the adoption of laws like that." Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u146	That's right. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u147	Okay. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Are they now willing to discuss matters? I can't see. They're desirable, aren't they? Please, Shibko, two, and Mishchenko, three. No objections? Weak, Mishchenko, Knyazevich. Please, 10 minutes. Well, three to nine. Nine minutes. Vitalia Yakovich is speaking. He's asking for a place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u148	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Vitaly Yakovich, a socialist faction. I want to remind my colleagues once again that discussing these problems is very important for those who are thinking today and those who are going to Europe because these conventions are the ones that are still making a positive image of Ukraine, which is really set up to fight organized corruption. This is one of the things that is happening today, I've already said, all over the world, but every country has to figure out how it's ready to deal with these things today. I'll give you an example, for example, that today, among the top priorities of the state are the detection of organized criminal groups and the cessation of their activities, the improvement of the effectiveness of fighting against law-abiding criminal societies, which use international conflicts related to the shadow economy, as well as criminal groups from abroad. I testify once again that if Ukraine has just ratified this convention, it will once again testify that it is set up to fight corruption not only by its own actions, but by its willingness to engage an international society. So today we have the task of proving the existence of organized crime, not proving individual types of crime or crime. That's one of the main questions. And another thing that I wanted to point out in my statement is that every country that ratifies a convention makes its own observations, warnings and so forth. And I would like us to go forward when we work on such documents as these countries do. For example, I have a list of countries that have expressed their comments to both conventions and there, almost every country has expressed its warnings according to the situation in its country and in accordance with the current legislation of that country. So we have to use it actively, and then we don't have that argument, that discussion that was at the beginning of these questions, who's going to do it. So I think that we have to do this, and for the future we have to consider that the warning is appropriate to do what these countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u150	Sergey Mishchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We need to discuss the need to ratify our conventions. It's really been done for decades by the international community in the area of anti-corruption, but I have questions. Why, one convention is signed three and a half years ago, and the other seven and a half years ago, and now we're just coming to ratify them. So I have the right question, what was done over the seven and a half years after signing our country? Our legislation thus far has not been brought into line with international standards. In addition to the three bills that have just been considered, which do not withstand any criticism, little has been done. Where our legislation improves the effective fight against high-level corruption. Where is the transparency of public procurement, where judicial and prosecutorial reform, how can public organizations and citizens participate in anti-corruption proceedings? Why are the results of the fight against corruption still unacceptable to society? Because the authorities do not want people to see their inactivity. To illustrate: In 2005, more than 6,000 were brought to court. reports of acts of corruption. As a result of their review, 102 people have been released from office, and this year there are 2.5 thousand. These protocols were sent to the court, and four persons were removed from duty. According to me, among the statistics of penalized corruption last year, there were five people of the ministerial level and a deputy minister, namely the civil servants of the first and second categories. Did these cases have a public resonance in Ukraine? Imagine, even the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not know their names. Instead of actually taking advantage of the international experience of fighting corruption as a priority in raising the responsibility of government officials, removing the immunity of the Supreme Council deputies, which is offered by our political power, narrowing the circle of untouchable persons, making real state protection for those who help to break up corrupt people, we are ready to fight and punish individuals in the private sector. The legislation in force until now has not created the only specialized body to fight corruption. And those bodies that work today will not be able to withstand their work of any kind of criticism. So I'm confident that we need to urgently develop an anti-corruption strategy, along with the President and these state institutions, public organizations, that we really, together, have overcome this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u151	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, just as the reporter has quite faithfully pointed out on the date of the signing of one convention and another, it's very good that we're now looking at them in a package. Because if you look at the UN convention, in the preamble, you will read that one of the reasons for its acceptance and foundation was the kind of convention that we're talking about right now. It's very interesting that we were among the first in 1999 to sign a criminal European convention. But in all these years, no finger has been struck in any way, at least in some way, by the basic methods, the mechanisms of legal implementation and its internal life. Moreover, we waited for it to become the basis for another convention in 2003, including the first to sign the second convention, the United Nations convention in Mexico. Because the convention itself allowed it to do so until 2005 and to do so in the central organs of the United Nations. But no, we had to show what, in the eyes of the world society, we were the right enforcers of all international law. But even during this time, no one has done anything. And the fact that the President and the government have made a number of legislative initiatives to follow his instructions. This should be a great gratitude from Parliament now, not to reproach him for proclaiming all these things on Independence Day. But they turned out to be completely unprepared. I believe that, you know, dear friends! You can talk a lot about what was to be warned, because this is a convention, ratified. But we should at least look at the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties, which says that we can ratify only those conventions that directly allow the convention itself. This convention does not allow for such a legal mechanism. It speaks of the possibility of the so - called declaration of those countries joining in. And those statements with which the country has joined are very important. I think it's too bad the minister didn't say that today. But one of these statements concerning the convention says that Ukraine is using this convention as a legal basis for co-operation in the issue of criminals, where national legislation on corruption is extended. Thus, with those nations with which we do not yet have extradition treaties, this convention will allow these criminals to be extradited. And a great many, perhaps our fellow citizens will thus return to their Fatherland and will be punished for their crimes here. Finally, indeed, the convention itself says that very many things will have to be implemented in domestic law. And the things that were offered today were offered to carry out this convention. That's just the beginning, because we're going to have to make a whole range of proposals. And also the Law on State Service, and other laws. But the fact that these conventions must be ratified is that not only do you know the words, but, in fact, do the international legal obligations. And to show that we are truly effective subjects of this. Because the right minister, when he says that those nations that did so have extremely effective results not only those who were fifteen years in a single state but, for example, Georgia, which the authorities are critical of, but now in connection with the ratification and implementation of these documents, 90 percent of the Georgians in their sociological surveys have given.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u153	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. I think you said the right thing and all of that should be meant when you're taking the document. We've considered these bills, these two conventions, I'm stressing again. They are both accompanied by draft ratification laws that we must adopt. I propose that in the final positions of both laws we write down a paragraph that stipulates that the introduction of this law comes after the introduction of legislation in accordance with the conventions and the adoption of laws that we have just considered: No. 2114, No. 2113, No. 2112, registration numbers. Do you understand the offer? The Legal Service will formulate this in a manner that is consistent with the Rules and Rules of Procedure. Is there no objection? May I vote? So I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which I have just been caught up in. Please, in general. For – 408. Decision taken. With the same amendment, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Criminal Convention on the Fight against Corruption is ultimately put to the vote. Here comes the vote, please. For -417, against -0. I would like to highlight this for someone who doubts that Parliament is set up to fight corruption. We have yet to consider the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court. Oh, I'm sorry. So we voted 0041.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u154	Oh, I'm sorry, I missed 0041 on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. There was a report about this. With the same conditions, I ask you to put it to the vote. Please. 0041. For – 407. We're on our way. Draft Act “On Ukraine’s Accession to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court”. Roman Zvaric will report. In view of the fact that the deputies have become familiar with the document, please simplify your report if you feel that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u155	I'll do my best, Alexander Alexandrovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm just going to talk about the basic positions of this document. First. It should be borne in mind that this treaty has already been signed and has become effective for 68 nations. The accession to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court is, in our view, to become one of the successive steps of our State on the way to a membership in the Rome Statute. I mean, it's the International Criminal Court. Without reading the text, I'll explain to you what the problem is now, because once again it's the negative conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration. The Science-Expert Authority believes that we can join this agreement on privileges and immunity just after Ukraine becomes a member of the International Criminal Court. Ukraine signed a statute, the Rome Statute, concerning the International Criminal Court. But in order for us to ratify it, we need to make changes to the Constitution, according to which the jurisdiction of this court can be extended to our territory, to the territory of our state. On the other hand, the International Criminal Court is dealing with four types of crime. This is true of such things as military aggression, genocide, and so forth. But in order to be able to move in this direction, the President of Ukraine has brought to your attention this international instrument, a legal instrument to allow us to grant immunity and privileges to employees, investigators working in the context of this International Criminal Court and who need to carry out their activities in our territory. This is not the same as being a member of the International Criminal Court by ratifying the Rome Statute. There are cases in international practice, and particularly with regard to this convention on immunities and privileges, where States have joined this convention without being members of the International Criminal Court, that is, without ratifying the Rome Statute. Science-expert management somehow doesn't take that into account. What's more, I'd like to draw your attention to this situation, Your Honor. It is this convention that Ukraine has already made this commitment. And not once, but twice. For the first time, we made this commitment when the UN General Assembly adopted resolution 58/79 on 11 December 2003, which called on all Member States to join this International Criminal Court Agreement. That is, this is our commitment to the UN. In addition, when Ukraine-EU action plan was approved, Ukraine just assumed the exact same obligation, irrespective of when the Rome Statute was ratified, to accede to this agreement. Of course, if Ukraine does not ratify how parliament does not ratify this agreement, you can conclude for yourself what might be the result of our international authority. It is your will. The President's proposal is to take the first step towards membership in the International Criminal Court, namely to ratify this agreement, and then, after appropriate changes to the Constitution have been made, to which we can extend the jurisdiction of this court to our territory to ratify the Rome Statute already signed on behalf of Ukraine on the International Criminal Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u156	Please, do you need to ask the author? No one wants to. Please, Mikola Vasilovich, this is also his, Sergey Vasilovich, I apologize. Kiwalov will report on this. He will also briefly report, and it would be desirable to base the conclusions of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u157	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, present! The Committee on Justice is recognized by the Main Committee on the Drafting of a Bill on the International Criminal Court’s Agreement on Privileges and Immunities. Having fully studied the basis of the bill, having considered one negative conclusion from the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which recommended rejecting the bill and the six positive conclusions of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, on Foreign Affairs, and on matters of European integration, the General Legal Office of the Supreme Council, which recommended approval of the bill, taking into account the reference of international NGOs and the most international criminal court, based on the prescriptions of the Constitution and the current legislation, and based on the national interests of Ukraine, requesting support for the proposed bill for the following reasons. First. Ukraine’s accession to the International Criminal Court’s Agreement on Privileges and Immunities remained the only form Ukraine could, at the level of international law, express its support to the International Criminal Court and provide it with minimal support. By rejecting the bill, Ukraine will automatically move to the International Criminal Court for an indefinite term. The other one. The Constitution of Ukraine in article 18 foresees that the foreign policy of our country, aimed at peaceful cooperation, must be in line with the principles of international law. These principles call for the inability to punish those guilty of serious war crimes during armed conflict. This is what the International Criminal Court is designed and designed to do. The Ukrainian Constitution then explicitly requires Ukraine to support and promote the International Criminal Court, not to assume that Ukraine is in opposition to the International Criminal Court. Third. The draft does not conflict in any way with the 2001 Constitutional Court’s conclusion on the Rome Statute, since it does not extend to Ukraine the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, which was the sole reason for the Constitutional Court’s conclusion. And the fourth. Ukraine's accession to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court is required by a court whose judges in Ukraine are given guarantees of security from the principles of decision-making and are in line with Ukraine's national interests. The International Criminal Court is also the moral and legal successor of the Nuremberg Tribunal and is exercising justice to prevent war crimes worldwide, similar to those committed by the Nazis in Ukraine in 41-44, that took the lives of millions of Ukrainians. Therefore, I would like to support the conclusion of the committee, the initiative of the President of Ukraine and the bill adopted as a basis and as a whole, as the Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u158	We continue the session for 15 minutes. The question is to Sergey Vasilovich? No questions asked. Any questions? Excuse me. Easy to ask for a word. Of course, you have to give. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u159	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Alexander Alexanderovich, thank you for giving the floor. I hope you'll give the same to everyone else. Sergey Vasilovich, of course, we are the faction of the "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko" will support the bill that you have just reported, but this is the question: in your statement you have repeated three times "Ukraine, in the event of non-support of this Act, will be in opposition to an international criminal court". Why is this opposition to an international criminal court, when we are not, even, members of this court, and it is only about ratifying the Act of Accession to the Agreement on Privileges for the Servants of the Court? So we put the wagon in front of the mare. In order to join the court, we need to make changes to the Constitution, and now we're just granting privileges. Perhaps we should prepare and amend the Constitution, join this court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u160	Thank you. I want to say that almost all European countries have joined the privileges, the immunities of an international criminal court today. I emphasize everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u161	Agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u162	Agreements. We are not considering accession to the Rome Statute today because, under current legislation, we do not have the right under the Constitution to introduce the International Criminal Court into the system of courts in Ukraine. Therefore, in order for us not to look like some countries that have not acceded to this bill, I would like to support, well, what our committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u163	Sergey Vasilovich, so they don't look like they've looked before. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u165	I ask you, since we are being listened to by radio audiences, sometimes television viewers watch who are not tired, I would like to say that the "privileged" word does not mean any advantage. This is the creation of normal conditions for court representatives who can function in Ukraine, even if they are not joined, is not a member of this court. Please, no more questions? Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. A project proposed by the Profile Committee on the ratification of this document as a whole is being voted on, the adoption of this law. Please. For 383. Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is under consideration. The question is fundamental. Please refer to Svetoslav Sergiyovich Kurulenka, deputy minister for the protection of the environment. And also ask him, because the question is important, and the MPs who are deeply familiar with this document, to brief him on his point.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The purpose of the adoption of the law is to ratify the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Montreal and Beijing Amendments to the Montreal Protocol. Today, Ukraine has ratified the London and Copenhagen Amendments to the Montreal Protocol. The ratification by Ukraine of the Montreal Amendment provides for the fulfilment of three basic requirements: the introduction of export licences and the import of all substances regulated by the Montreal Protocol. This commitment by Ukraine has already been fulfilled. The ban on imports and exports of methyl bromide from or to a country that has not ratified the Copenhagen Amendment also does not affect Ukraine’s interests. And the ban on the supply of restored refrigerated agents from countries that do not meet the requirements of the Montreal Protocol on the production of ozone-depleting substances, this requirement applies to the regulation of trade in retreaded refrigeration agents that Ukraine executes. And because the main suppliers of restored refrigerated agents are developed countries that fully comply with the Montreal Protocol. In addition, Ukraine has its own equipment for the restoration of these substances. The Beijing Amendment also provides for Ukraine to meet three basic requirements. This is a complete cessation of production and consumption of bromochloromethane. The requirement applies to the control of a rather liquid chemical that is not used in Ukraine. Introduction to Ukraine’s annual report to the Ozone Secretariat on the use of methyl bromide for quarantine and pre-shipment handling. This requirement requires only a correction of reporting forms. And the introduction of control over the production, export and import of hydrochlorofluorocarbons, this is a type of refrigeration agent, this requires monitoring the production of hydrochlorofluorocarbons that are not available in Ukraine. Ukraine's accession to the Montreal and Beijing amendments is essential because, firstly, Ukraine successfully implements its main international obligations under the Montreal Protocol, secondly, it harmonises national legislation in the area of protection of the ozone layer to the European Union's legislation, which has ratified all four amendments, thirdly, to prevent the introduction of possible economic sanctions in part of the ban on imports necessary for Ukraine's economy of refrigerated agents. The law does not provide for additional financial security from the State Budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u167	Questions to the Reporter? Easy to ask, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u168	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Svetoslav Sergiyovich, the draft law that is proposed to be adopted, provides for the introduction of export licences and import of appropriate substances, as well as the cessation of the release of chemicals, a complex name, I will not call it. Simply put, the adoption of this law will affect production in Ukraine. I mean, aren't our manufacturers going to suffer as a result of the adoption of this law? Of course, we support the normal ozone layer above us, and the sunless rays are burning our skin, but we also need to take care of the producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u169	In short, they're not going to get hurt because the license is already in place in Ukraine and our producers are not going to get hurt because the requirements of the Montreal Protocol, they don't apply to the production that they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u170	Okay. No further questions. Have a seat, please. What does the committee think about this? Valerius Mikhailovich Calchenko also gives a brief account of the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of Amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. I'm just going to add that this protocol has been signed by 188 countries and today we're only signing amendments: the Montreal Amendment and the Beijing Amendment. I want to tell my colleague Oleg Lazko not to ask me that the restrictions imposed by the Montreal and Beijing Amendment will not create any problems for Ukraine at all. Some of them are already reflected in our legislation because of proper licensing, some of them are not affected by Ukraine's interests, imports and exports, and some are related to substances that are not used in us at all in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill on the ratification of amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also made such a positive decision, and on the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at its October 4th meeting unanimously supported the draft law. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-18-m0.u172	I see no questions, please sit down. The law is short, and I'm more likely to read for radio listeners about ratifying the amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees amendments to the Montreal Protocol, which destroy the ozone layer adopted on September 17, 1997 in Montreal and December 3, 1999 in Beijing to ratify. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. For 403. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed. But let him apologize beyond, let's say, a meeting, but nevertheless, let's assume it's at the time of the meeting. There is information about the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Yegorenko Tamara Vasilovna and Petrik Petr Pantelmonović as part of the Party of the Regions' MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
