ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:02:14]] There are 438 national deputies registered in the session and hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Today, in the head of the Committee on Education and Science, Catherine Semenovna Samuelk has a good birthday. Let us sincerely welcome her with this celebration. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! On Wednesday, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to make proposals, announcements, statements, messages. Please sign up for those who intend to speak. Please, 30 minutes. He's stoned. Anatoly Seminoga, please. Tissue is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! In my presentation, I would like to draw attention to the problems and events that take place in the capital city of Kiev. Everyone knows that the city of Kiev had developed corruption schemes that allowed officials to dispose of Kiev’s land and Kiev’s property. The new government, a new mayor who promised to make the elections transparent, promised to overcome these corrupt schemes, unfortunately not only did it not overcome these schemes but it strengthened them. Today, the city of Kiev is home to a cynical, violent waste of land and property of the Kyiv community. The majority formed on the basis of the wishes of the land’s dereban today does not stop at any action, nor did any session of the Kyivrada take place without violating the rules of Kievrad and the laws of Ukraine. In the session hall, members of parliament were beaten and physically executed. During the session that took place yesterday, 19 numbers received special means that not only silenced the mobile phones of the national MPs but also affected the self - feeling of the deputies in the hall. And thanks only to the vigorous and persistent actions of the deputies of the ‘Julia Tymoshenko’ bloc, we were able to achieve some results in Kiev. First of all, this is the approval of the Shevchenkov Court of Justice to suspend the order of the measure to raise tariffs 3.5 times. Once again, the Attorney General's Office, under the insistence of members from our faction, has ordered the Kyivrada session to reverse the order of the Montenegrin mayor to raise tariffs several times. Two sessions in a row, again thanks to the hard work of our deputies, we did not allow more than 350 lands to be torn apart in Kiev at a total cost of more than three billion dollars. The “Julia Timoshenko Block” asks the members of the Supreme Council: first, to support the bill introduced by our faction 2520 on the introduction of transparent mechanisms for land rental and land purchase. And the second. Since the first days of the new year, we have been declaring the gathering of signatures for the new election of the Kyiv Council and the city’s head in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u3	Yes, Tkachenko gives the word to Eugene Marmazov, a faction of Communists. To prepare, the coat of arms is passed on to Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I am once again forced to raise the problem of the Aleksanderiaugal Storm Coal Complex. I recall that this complex was leased in April 2004 to the commercial structures of the Energy Coal and the PSB. During the period of operation of these forms, Aleksandriaugol has been brought to complete destruction, coal and briquette production is 3 per cent of 95 years, and workers have been reduced from 5,000 to 3,000, virtually withdrawn. the operation of all thermal power plants. A total of 26 million bracelets is owed for 12 months. People are in extreme need. Yesterday, I received a letter from a participant in the Great Homeland War, disabled by 2 groups of 87-year-old Kugidko Ivan Stepanović, whose son, who worked in Alexandria, died 10 months ago, was left with a disabled daughter-in-law, a school granddaughter. They have nothing to live for, as the debt of the deceased is not even repaid by decision of the court. And the house is all sold. These are separate strokes of a whole horrible painting. Amazingly, no one has paid attention to this problem until recently. It was only at the initiative of the people's deputies that they became less involved, but, frankly, it was not work, but business imitation. You see, Deputy Prime Minister Kluev's orders are being sabotaged. The household fund, Minogleprom, is playing this problem against each other. No one responds to the statements of the People's Deputies. Shavers don't know where to find the truth. We went to the governor of the Kirovograd district of Chernyshova, but he did not even meet them. The situation in Alexandria has deteriorated sharply, wages have increased, careers have been debilitated and flooded. The objects for which leases have been legally terminated, Minugleprom does not take on balance, are non-cashable and the masses are being disrupted. One tenant just ran away, and the other one, Energoul, the owner, the national deputy from BUT Zivago, is practically blackmailing the Cabinet of Ministers, demanding to sell him the entire complex. The principal salary debt is owed to Zhivago. Here is Julia Vladimirovna, who has consistently claimed that BUTE is the primary provider of simple labourers. So prove it, not in words, but in fact: make sure that your member of the Zivago faction at least the day before New Year's is paid back to the people. Adam Ivanovich, Committee on TEC prepared a draft letter signed by Moroz to the Prime Minister proposing that a joint retreat be held by the Committee of the State Foundation in Alexandria on the issue of the Buro-Coal Complex. Please support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u5	Eugene Kushnarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's being followed by Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u6	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions warmly welcomes the professional celebration of all internal affairs officials. At the same time, on this holiday for the police, the day is forced to draw the attention of society to a situation that has arisen around the staffing assignments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The normal working procedure for appointing deputies to the new Head of the Ministry caused an absurd war reaction by the President of Ukraine. The conflict will be triggered by the specific position of the President's Secretariat, which replaces the norms of the Constitution and domestic legislation. The faction of the Party of Regions claims that such actions pose a threat to national security, democracy, and undermine the foundations of Ukraine’s legal system. It's an attempt at a legal and an extracurricular way of controlling the activities of the power forces. On December 13, Zushko, the minister of the interior, presented the special composition of his deputies. The appointment took place according to the Constitutional Powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. I remind you: Article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine and in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers. On December 15, the President of Ukraine suspended the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, referring to his own decree. The Constitution of the President of Ukraine itself requires the reconciliation of the candidates of the leaders of the key departments of a number of ministries: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, defence, the Border Guards, the Intelligence Service, etc. The unconstitutionality of this act is evident because, in accordance with article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is the Cabinet of Ministers who appoints and relieves central executives who are not part of the government. There are no provisions in the Constitution relating to the powers of the President, the agreement of candidates for appointment as First Deputys, Deputy Ministers and Head of the Structural Units of the Central Executive Authority of Ukraine. The president would do well to rescind his decree as quickly as possible, admitting, by the way, not his first mistake. But it seems that the President doesn't even know what questionable quality of documents he's signing, as reflected in the state of governance in the country, in the international reputation of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions does not aim to understand the subconscious motivations of the activities of the President of Ukraine and his secretariat. We state our position: the highest national interest and priority of government action in Ukraine is the clear compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislative and regulatory framework. Arbitrary treatment of the right, subjective interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u7	Yes, Taran gives the word to the Turk, please. Get ready for Baldarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u8	The Honourable People's Deputies, yesterday by the Supreme Council, and more faithfully, in fact, three factions: “Regions”, Communists and much of “Our Ukraine” have been ruined by the Opposition Act. This was evidence of the fact that the current power, the anti-crisis coalition of the faction of the Party of Regions, is on the part of the interested parties to have a civilized relationship between power and opposition. The opposition is deprived of any legal right to control power. And instead of the anti-crisis law, the coalition dreams of a reservation law. I have to tell you, fellow honourable colleagues, that we're used to in the times of Kuchma, and now we're working not only in the parliamentary way, but also in the extra-parliamentary way. We are able to force you to abide by the Constitution, to abide by existing legislation and without it. You know, the only thing that makes us sad is that, in fact, you've been for 3.5 months making us waste our time talking to you. Three and a half months ago, a working group composed of virtually all factions worked. We went to compromises, we listened to you, we wasted time on resultsless discussions. And even after they found the compromise, they found the understanding and signed all the factions that were in the working group of this bill, it was cynical, and it was demolished by you. You know, we were not surprised by the blasphemy of the factions of the regions that made themselves pyars in this law. But we were really surprised by the betrayal of most of the deputies from "Our Ukraine," who demonstrated their position by voting in favour of this law. You know, this law doesn't need a faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, this law is needed by our country, which is tired of civil conflicts. And I want to tell you, my distinguished colleagues in the faction of the Regions, in half a year, when you're in opposition, you're going to pray for this bill, and I promise you, while we're in power, we're going to vote for you 100% for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u9	Mr. Bordierev gives the word "Olena Bondarenko", please, the faction of the Party of Regions. Please. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u10	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. The members of the Party of the Regions had to draw the attention of the public and the relevant authorities for a second time to the extraordinary fact that they had shot at the House of the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On December 14, at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the faction issued an official statement about the shelling of the working cabinet of a member of the Party of the Kovalova Region. And we have no right to ignore the attempt on our colleagues. Last Thursday, December 14, a faction of the Party of the Regions approached the BSS, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the Prosecutor's Office, requiring that the attempt to attack the Ukrainian National Deputy should be launched as soon as possible. After the announcement of the statement by the Head of the Supreme Council, he commissioned the preparation of a protocol address to Minister Tsushka, who was to provide the deputies with information about an extraordinary event. At present, however, such information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about who was behind the shootings from the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not leak. We still do not know the official answers to many questions on this subject, and we are forced to read about the progress of the media investigation. Such a situation is not normal. Honourable deputies, to seek immediate and objective investigation into the shootings of Julia Kovalova’s office, should be a matter of honor for all the political forces represented in this Parliament. This is not only necessary for us with you, your fellow believers, your security, your determination to put an end to such actions, but it means putting a reliable screen on the road that leads to the destabilization of society as a whole. And we're convinced that we don't need any responsible politicians here to rock our common Ukrainian ship. In particular, the faction of the Party of the Regions points out that the opposition has been hindering the normal work of Kyivrada for a long time. Covering up with the high rank of Ukrainian national deputies, these people break into the operating system, pull out the equipment, turn off the lights to paralyze the work of power. Therefore, we ask law enforcement authorities to give a legal assessment of the destructive actions of representatives of the political opposition. All of us need to bear in mind that impunity provokes new wrongs. We ask the IMF to officially inform Parliament about the conduct of investigations into these incidents and to report on measures taken to prevent the recurrence of such situations in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u11	Thank you. Matthew passes the word to Kravchenk, please. Zabzluk gives the word to Tomenku. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u12	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, esteemed voters, 30.11 this year, at number 2640, I have submitted a draft decision by the Supreme Council to amend and supplement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas for Ukrainian consumers, violations of existing legislation in the energy market of Ukraine. The point is that some political forces are doing everything they can to ensure that the Supreme Council's earlier decision does not work. You know that Derkach, the head of this commission, has left Rudkowski, so I'm trying my draft decree to do everything I can to expose the work of this commission. Today, the political power in the face of the BIT is doing everything to bring down to the present Government all the troubles and disadvantages of increasing the price of gas. We have something to show this commission. We have the minutes of the negotiations between Gazprom and NAK Naftogaza Ukraine at a time when Julia Vladimirovna was Prime Minister, and we have shown how these negotiations were disrupted, as Ukraine has done, and why today the price of gas has risen and therefore tariffs have risen. You can beat yourself in the chest, you can block Kievrada, the Supreme Council and so on, but you have to look at the problem, and the problem is that the Government of Yulia Timoshenko has disrupted negotiations with Russia. To date, we have serious claims against the prosecutor's office, which closed the criminal case for serious violations in the write-off of 7.5 billion grivens that Julia Vladimirovna wrote down immediately in the first months of her Prime Minister. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, without waiting for the agenda item today, I raise the question of including my draft regulation on the agenda and considering it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u13	Please, Mikola Tomenko. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw you to the very important problem that we discussed yesterday in the session hall, because as long as we have the President's team and the Prime Minister's team fighting for the budget, we will soon have the profitability of the shadow land market to go beyond the drug market. We already have land cattle gathering training for drug - addicts to find out how to make money on earth because they are already making less money on drugs in the world. Yesterday, when we debated the amendments to the Earth Code, it became quite clear that our Committee on Agro-Industry Policy had completely separated itself from this problem, when in the MP's buffet of 3 or 4 lands, we were discussing how to once again secure the shadow market, and the committee was not able to assemble and not just to meet the committee, but at public hearings, where to gather representatives of agriculture, where to gather representatives of the expert environment, politicians, and say, “How do we make the shadow market of the earth”, and today, you know how it is being implemented, not just to stop it, but to translate it into a fully civilized democratic market. I want to contact the village workers today, the older people who work in the village: “Do not believe the brigades who are driving today and telling you that you need your $300 - to - $400 rations and a bottle to give to the smart people who will give you the opportunity to make money on them. I think that the historic mission of the Supreme Council is to adopt every legislative act in a year so that those older people who have only received land from this state, if necessary, can sell it at the proper price to keep themselves and their children and their grandchildren. What is being done in Ukraine today is the ground mess that we have here in the Supreme Council to stop. I am glad that yesterday we were able to vote in favour of banning the purpose of the land of agriculture. I'm glad that in a difficult discussion we're closing the gap of the possibility of actually taking away the land rations for free. But this does not mean that we have settled the land issue. This means that what we voted yesterday should be adopted as a minimum of five legislative acts, starting with the Earth cadastre, ending with the entire sale of land procedure so that the following year, when the year passes, we have these experts selling land, many of whom are present in the session hall, again find no way to rob these common people. I would like to point out once again that yesterday the Supreme Council took the right step. I hope that, as always, we do not have the wrong standards before we read the law, and in a year we settled the land issue in the interests of the peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u15	Eugene Gorenik gives Viacheslav Kirilenko the word, please. Prepare Bokoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. In Ukraine, there is a systemic political crisis, triggered by so - called political reform. The mutually exclusive decisions of the various authorities, the misunderstanding of the people who are now responsible in the country, the legitimate result of this experiment on the Ukrainian nard. Democratic forces have always warned that polytreform will bring no advantage to society, because the only goal of this is to limit the ability of future President Yushchenk to exercise the power given by the people and to implement the electoral program. The statements of reform initiators, who now form the ruling coalition in parliament, that reform aimed at overcoming authoritarianism, do not match reality. For example, last year, when the old Constitution was in force, there were no warnings about respect for human rights and democracy in Ukraine by the Council of Europe and other international organizations. Instead, today’s government and the obedient majority in Parliament are a real threat to the restoration of authoritarianism. In five minutes now, the Parliament now appoints and releases ministers, takes decisions that have just been made, makes strong external political statements, and all of this is often without discussion, without justification, without consideration for the opinion of society. The growing political and legal chaos is beginning to dominate the budgetary process, the relationship between the central local authorities and human resources. This is all because the Constitutional Court, on 9 June 1998, decided that if a bill amending the Constitution between the first and the second readings had been amended, which had not been concluded by the Constitutional Court, such a draft could not be voted on without being referred again to the Constitutional Court. On December 8, 2004, this requirement was ignored. The draft amendments to the Constitution, adopted in the first reading and considered by the Constitutional Court, were arbitrarily removed about two dozen provisions and more than ten new provisions of different meaning and content were added. Therefore, statements by the governing coalition and the government that the changes to the Constitution seem to have become part of the Constitution, rather than reality. This case has to be examined only by the Constitutional Court, which will determine whether these changes were ever part of the Constitution, whether they were from the very beginning and are unconstitutional. In my opinion, the answer to this question in the Constitutional Court is clear in the light of a calm and impartial consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u17	John Boki gives the word to Jaroslav Mendoza, please. Follow him, Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Respectable citizens! The 2007 budget raised questions in society about corruption in the higher echelons of power. Regrettably, high - ranking civil servants and national deputies often give grounds for suspicion of illegal lobbying of their own private interests at the expense of the state. Corruption and bribery are increasing in all structures, including the law enforcement system and the courts. If this process is not stopped, if we talk about effective government work, it will simply not be possible. As early as 2004, Victor Yushchenko promised to sign a decree on the fight against corruption and compulsory declaration by all government officials of his income and income for their families. Such information should have become public. Sadly, this promise, like most other promises of overcoming corruption by today’s President, has remained empty. The practice of publishing declarations on the income of civil servants and their families has not been widely distributed. The closure of power is justified in society's mood that any action of the state is aimed exclusively at enriching a bunch of authorities. I am sure that no reform in the state is possible if those who are authorized to implement it themselves, first of all, do not constantly demonstrate openness and openness. The Socialist Party faction proposes to unite the efforts of deputies to develop and adopt comprehensive anticorruption legislation. It should be based on the immediate adoption of the law on compulsory public declaration of the income of government officials, deputies of all levels, and the mandatory declaration of the income of their families. I believe that the information bank on this subject, open to all citizens, will allow society to get a more complete picture and a sense of the sincerity of many politicians, who, with beautiful words about the fight against corruption and their own infallibility, are quietly pursuing a luxurious way of life that is not in line with their tax declarations. I recall that it is estimated by many foreign and national experts that most Ukrainian citizens believe that it is the corporation that has turned into a number one national security issue. Only such decisive measures to increase transparency for all those entrusted with authority can in fact confirm the pre-election slogans for combating corruption, which many parties have recorded in their pre-election programs but do not wish to implement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Yes, Falco's passing on acid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u20	The distinguished national MPs, respected fellow countrymen, encouraged me to come to this rostrum by speaking out to one of our colleagues about the opposition, who was very sorry that they had not passed the opposition law yesterday. They would like to have a law of opposition that would allow them to rule the state in opposition. I want to remind our colleagues that in due course the opposition was in power, and today's opposition was in power. And what she did in eight months of work, we remember very well, and most of all, the Ukrainian people remember the five crises. Because of the main crisis, the gas that Kravchenko spoke about, the President of Ukraine Yushchenko was forced to resign the government of Timoshenko, and you know it. When a five - year gas deal was broken from 2004 to 2009, Ukraine began to receive three times the cost of gas. There was nothing left for the president to do to put Timoshenko away. And I think that the Kravchenko project that we have to consider will provide an answer, and the people of Ukraine will know who is to blame for the increase in tariffs that will not be financed by the program, that the people of Ukraine are now driven into this pit. I would like to talk about the budget in this regard. The main law of the financial state is the budget, which we sent to the President again yesterday, and once again the President's Secretariat decides on his fate, Yatsenuk claims yesterday that the President will promise him. Excuse me, what right does Yatsenuk have to speak from the President until this law has even arrived at the President's Secretariat. That is the role of the President’s Secretariat. Do you understand what's happening in the state? So I want to say that if the people of Ukraine haven't been able to finance their programs since January 1 they won't be able to receive tariff subsidies from utilities, you should know that those who have blocked the budget. Because they've agreed that this is the best budget in 14 years in Ukraine, it's socially oriented. It was the President of Ukraine who confirmed on Friday that 87 -- I'm paying attention, 87 percent of the President's remarks are taken into account by the Supreme Council, and they warn us that he will block, And for the rest. I cannot help but say that the Supreme Council has absolutely legally decided to release the Foreign Minister of Tarasuk. Then, excuse me, I'd like to ask if we can ask the President of Ukraine today. In what quality does Tarasyuk drive around the world today, and in what quality does he try to break into the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He's completely legally freed. And as long as the court, the Constitutional Court, has no right or right, he has no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches of the national MPs have ended. A few words about the suggestions you made. In terms of the situation in Kiev, I think the only thing we can do is ask the temporary special commission we created to start a job. And when we created it, we gave it a pretty wide range of rights, and absolutely all of the problems that the representatives of the Timoshenko Block talked about here are in the ruling on the Temporary Investigation Commission. Let her get to work and tell us the results. Is the meeting over? He says. The head, on the other hand, even informs us that a meeting has already taken place. Thank you, I mean, the commission started work. "Alexandriawogil" I think is the right offer. We need to have a consultation with the Cabinet of Ministers on how to make it real. Well, not the entire Cabinet of Ministers, perhaps the committee headed by Vice-Prime Minister Klyev, and the Committee on Fuel and Energy, which is the government committee headed by Vice-Prime Minister Klyev, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of the Fuel and Energy Complex can hold a joint meeting there. I think that would be good. A lot of talk here has been made about footage in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You know, not to be very political, I'm bringing you back to recent history: look who appointed deputy interior ministers in today's ministry six months ago. This was appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers without asking, not agreeing with anyone, because it was his constitutional right. And today's Kabin works the same way. The Opposition Act is also different. Some said they blamed, others, as it were, said their views on it. We agreed with you yesterday that the most realistic, the most promising, and in my opinion, the most just is actually to write a special chapter in our Rules of Opposition, its rights and responsibilities. And that would be, as it were, in the context of the general legislation on the activities of the Supreme Council. In fact, let's, I think we're going to need, let's give a chance, the more that today's 15th anniversary of the Ukrainian militia, let's give them a chance to celebrate, and then let's look at what colleague Olena Bondarenko said here, in fact, to let them know about these shots in the Supreme Council house, and that's where the Budget Committee is, because the hearings, the ideas are very much in the media, and we have to get official information from the Ministry. And I hope the Ministry will give us this information in writing. Let us find out and then find out if we need to expand and listen to some oral information. With regard to the fight against corruption, I fully support my colleague Mendus, but let's talk more broadly. Not only the President, but also the Supreme Council. And we are also obliged to make an effort to fight corruption, that is, to adopt the necessary legislative acts. And you know that part of the acts that have been introduced and co-operated with the Supreme Council have not yet met those requirements, as we are told by the profile committee that are being presented for such acts. So let's work together and, in fact, the three legislative acts that have been introduced, plus the ratification of the relevant international agreements. I think it's going to be a solid contribution by the Supreme Council to this problem. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sokola Andrija Alexiyyovich, as part of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions, and on the basis of his personal statement, I report his membership in the anti-crisis coalition of the MPs of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A preliminary report from the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances and causes of the death of journalist Gongadze and the reasons for the delay in the investigation of a criminal case is under consideration. According to Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. He suggests that we give him 15 minutes and 5 minutes to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected journalists, first of all, invite us all to return to the year 2000. During the course of six years, many of us were struck by the tragedy that occurred on the night of September 17 with the head of the Internet publication “Ukrainian Truth” by George Gongadze, who boldly gave in his sharp publications????????? critics of the then authorities have proven to have exposed the illegal actions of the then president of Ukraine and his immediate surroundings. The tragic event was preceded by certain events that, although warning of a possible disaster, could not be adequately reacted by law enforcement agencies, beyond being provoked and carried out on account of their involvement. As early as mid - July 2000, George Gongadze addressed the Attorney General of Ukraine with an open letter informing him that the police had been gathering information about his personal life and professional activities for two months. In this letter, George also reported on his surveillance and asked to stop the militia’s conscription. As the Commission is now aware, the U.S. Attorney General ignored the journalist’s concern, left his well - founded request aside, although events in September showed that the journalist’s fears had real reasons. 16 numbers were already in September of the month immediately after 10 a.m., when George left the building on the street of the Forest of Ukraine, a cab was taken to him by a car in which police officers, who had been abducted, were transported outside Kiev and killed. The next day, George Miroslav Gongadze’s wife, not waiting for him to return home, knowing about the pressure he was under, applied to the Moscow Police Department, and work colleagues, concerned about the journalist’s disappearance, posted an article entitled “Georgia Gongadeze’s ‘ Ukrainian Truth ’ on September 17th. We hope for the better." On November 2, that same year, a decapitated body was found in the woodsmuse near the district center of Tarasti Kyiv district, which was rumored to belong to George Gongadze. Police and prosecutors in general's pursuits denied these rumors, claiming that the body had been in the ground for 2-3 years, that it was not the body of Georgia Gongadze, but a completely different person. In fact, this was also stated in this parliamentary rostrum. Journalists searched for George by their own means. With the expectation of establishing the body’s belongings, they came to Tarishi at the morgue of the district hospital, and in their words it was not possible to visually establish the body’s beheading, but that it was processed with chemical substances. Journalists were also described as having been found near the body of a murdered journalist. Their belongings to Georgia were undeniably confirmed. The forensics expert agreed to give the body to visiting journalists to deliver it to the city morgue in Kiev. As long as journalists were looking for a car to remove the body, the body disappeared from the morgue of the Tarostian district hospital. In time, a body that seems to belong to Georgia Gongadze appeared in the Kyiv Sea, but to this day no 100 - percent expertise has confirmed that the body found in Tarsus belongs to a missing journalist. Further developments, respected colleagues, are well - known. On September 9, 2000, a criminal case was filed in the prosecutor’s office today. From a criminal case to a separate conduct part of the case of individuals who physically destroyed Georgia Gongadze. I will say immediately that since 28 November 2005, Georgia Gongadze has been on the subject of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. The members of the commission expressed concern about the fact that, in addition to the trial of the Gongadze destruction case, there was also a judicial investigation into the case, which is inadmissible under Ukrainian criminal law. According to the commission of representatives of Miroslava Gongadze in court, the case of those who destroyed Gongadze may not be completed until December of the following year. Think of it, Your Honor, when we're investigating a murder charge. You may have pointed out that I have never used the word “the murder of Georgia Gongadze by persons on the bench of defendants”. The murderers, under criminal law, are not only those who physically destroyed Georgia Gongadze but also organizers, instigators, and assassins. Clearly, murder is a broader concept than just physical destruction. On the basis of the above, I will note that Ukrainian society and the world society want to establish the entire circle of perpetrators of the murder, but unfortunately, the members of the commission have come to believe that the judicial investigation into the questions of the organizers and gunners of Gongadze's murder is at zero levels and has not yet moved. Whom they don't call an accomplice to a journalist's murder. And the former President of Ukraine, and the Minister of Interior, and the heads of police, and others. It was thought that the so - called films of Mikli Melnicka would help to establish the truth. I'm not going to minimize it, but I'm not going to exaggerate the meaning of these films. Think about it. Your Honor, there are 680 hours of footage. Among them, those who talk about Gongadze are made up in two or three minutes. There's no word on the instructions to kill Gongadze. But when there's a final report, I'll tell you that if these videos were just about Georgia Gongadze, they would probably have been legitimate for a long time and would have been given a proper procedural evaluation of the investigation, but there, I repeat, 680 conversations between the different people of our country. Now, actually, we're talking about the work of the commission. During three months, nine sessions were held of the commission, at which persons who own information from the commission’s activities were heard, namely, the cause of death and the reason for delay in the investigation of a criminal case. Today, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the two investigators of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine from the number of those who were previously on the case, has been heard, the Deputy Attorney General, who was overseeing the investigation of the case. Valentina Teleniko, representing the interests of Miroslava Gongadze in court and other Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, gave his testimony to the commission. Andrew Fedur, who represented the interests of the dead journalist Alexander Gongadze. Two of them were heard by Michael Melnick. I will note that in addition to his testimonies, he gave the commission copies of film recordings that had not yet been published. Igor Philipczyk, who was a colleague of ours and personally knew Georgia Gongadze, was twice heard and maintained a friendly relationship with him. In view of the transparency of information on possible involvement in the killing of the head of the Office of the Interior Minister of Ukraine, Edward Ferre, who has been in a coma in the Ministry of Internal Affairs since July 2003, the members of the commission visited him there and concluded that communication with him is impossible neither now nor in the future, since the condition of the patient is extremely difficult. Fere’s medical diagnosis was confirmed by the official guidance provided by the commission, the head of the well - known hospital and the head of the hospital’s emergency ward were invited to board meetings and reported that there was no productive contact with the patient. Edward Ferre could have replaced Pukac, who is now in the search. To Edward Ferre, I will note that by July 2003, when he was able to show, he had never been invited or questioned by the investigating authorities. This is also a reason for delay in the investigation. Members of the commission visited Miroslav Gongadze in the United States, asking her questions that had been approved at the meeting of the commission. There were also meetings with the Director of Eurasia of the National Democratic Institute, with the heads of the U.S. vice president's office and with other representatives of public organizations interested in the detection of the killers of Georgia Gongadze. A number of inquiries were made by the commission to the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities involved in the investigation. If previously, honourable colleagues, analyze the materials that are at the disposal of the commission on December 20th, which is today, to generalize the testimony of the persons questioned, we can determine the factors that have had a negative impact on the investigation of the case over the course of six years. First. During that time, five U.S. attorneys changed, and of course all of them were involved in the criminal investigation. Several members of the commission felt that there was no basis for the replacement of the investigation teams and their leaders. And you can imagine a situation where in the case of more than 150 volumes, even getting to know them physically is a major problem. Third. According to the U.S. Attorney General’s Office, one reason for stopping the investigation is the behavior of Mikola Melnicken herself. According to prosecutors, he does not want to communicate with them, give a witness, and transmit the originals with a record that touches the killing of Gongadze. Four. The delay was also facilitated by the release from custody of General Puchach, who could testify to the direct murder and commission of this murder. Ignoring the need to question officials when possible. Yuri Kravchenko was killed, Igor Goncharov was killed, Edward Ferre was in critical condition, and a Puchac police officer was also wanted. With regard to the real, real causes of Georgia Gongadze’s death, it is only possible under such conditions if the Kyiv Court of Appeal passes judgment on the guilt or innocence of persons suspected of physically destroying a journalist. If a judicial investigation is carried out by officials whose actions or omissions have been delayed in the investigation of a criminal case. Most important, when 100 percent of the colleagues, George Gongadze, are assigned to the body he found. I repeat, there is no such information in the case today. When Mikola Melnichenko delivers, the film will be properly studied under Ukrainian law, where discussions about Georgia Gongadze will be recorded. The Commission's actions are intended to contribute to the realization of all of these conditions. Dear colleagues, you have all been or will be members of the commission of inquiry, you realize that the commission is limited in its capacity. The Law “On Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is not approved, and this binds the hands of any commission of inquiry. We're planning another job. Our report today is the previous one. When I finish, my dear colleagues and distinguished listeners, I will tell you. Gongadze is not just his mother, his wife, his children and his family, it is the pain of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian authorities. We should end up putting a dot in this disgraceful story for Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u23	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Please, who wants to ask a question? Let's sign up. Five minutes. Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u24	Volodymyr Romanovich, Mikola Melnichenko, has repeatedly stated his willingness to cooperate with international expertise, to transmit existing records, and to record devices. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has allocated the necessary funds to carry out such experiments. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has made a special decision on its willingness to promote such expertise. Why is such an expertise not yet carried out? And who personally in the law enforcement system of our nation are blocking the conduct? Has the commission been able to clarify the answer, a specific answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u25	Dear colleague, I'll give you a preliminary answer. Indeed, according to a decision of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers allocated 500,000 dollars to conduct an international film analysis of Gongadze. A lot of questions came up, and you know about them. Is there a recording device? This device is explained by different people. Some say he's in the former National Deputy, others he's in Beresowski and so on. So the work in this direction is still unstarted. But the righteous fears of Nicholas the Melnick about what this too will be lost. But the Attorney General's Office is also right, and the expertise should be based on Ukrainian national procedural legislation. Only then will she get the strength of evidence in a criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u26	Mikola Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! Obviously, this is the first case in the history of the Ukrainian state of novelty, when, in the light of such a higher legislative body, other political institutions, the entire body of law enforcement agencies cannot ensure that this criminal case is investigated. I think it shows that we're just moving in a direction that we want to become a legal state, but we're not. The next question. What, though, is the main reason you see this criminal case moving so uncertainly and not complete?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u28	Mikolo Vasilovich, I will answer that all five general prosecutors involved in the investigation referred to the lack of political will to complete the case. But if there is political will, there are its bearers. So please, the answer is yes, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u29	Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u30	Honourable Rapporteur! I have two questions. I understand if you can't answer them, I'm not offended, but still. First of all, I heard a message from members of the deceased's family that the size of the body's leg, which is called the Turatian, did not correspond to the size of Georgia Gongadze's leg when he was alive, that his leg was less than two sizes. That's the first question: how could it be? And the second question. I myself met a group of people from Simferopol who claimed that they had met with Georgi Gongadze the day after his abduction, which, according to the investigation, took place in the city of Kiev. Is this version investigated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u31	Thank you. In the report, I told you that questions were raised: Whose body was examined in general, fellow believers? The body was taken to the airport, and it disappeared from there and was brought back after a while. Today, in the morgue on Orange Street, there are remains that are not put into the body. So not just the size of the legs, but in general, whose body is and whose body has been examined?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u32	Vladimir Romanovich, for example, was seen in Simferopol or by the Semiferopolitans.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u33	I'll tell you yet, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, that he was not only seen on September 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u34	They've seen it in Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u35	and much later, both in Lviv and in Ternopol. The investigation teams headed by the Attorney General’s deputy, carried out a reenactment of the circumstances and circumstances of the event, and so forth. But that's beyond time and in three months we haven't been able to figure it all out, you have to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u36	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u38	Vladimir Romanovich! [[Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”]] I have three short questions. First, the text you just read, which you gave us, is that your point of view or is that the point of view of the commission? Was this text voted on by the members of the committee at which meeting? First question. The other one. The prosecution of the Attorney General's Office is not finished, it's ongoing, you said yourself, there's a trial going on. I'm sorry, you're a lawyer, you're a judge. So who are we judging? When the investigation is still going, and we're already judging someone and pretending they're the same killers. And the third question. You will recall that at the 4th meeting, the Supreme Council convened a temporary commission of inquiry, which was very detailed. [[I was a member of this committee. He's a colleague of Kendzer's.]] We've studied these films and the circumstances are written down there or not. I have a question for you. Have you added the materials of the commission headed by General Drachewski to the work of your commission? There are answers to all the questions that you just said about these films and those two minutes and 17 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u39	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, thank you. What touches the text, I don't speak for myself, of course. Yesterday, the committee met at half past three in the conference room, and we confirmed the presentation. The text has been added to these by the members of the commission. As Shevchenko said, “I will fill the book with verses.” Next. Who are they judging if the investigation is not completed? This was the same concern and warning expressed by the members of the commission. The three most important moments are the national MPs. Not set by 100 percent of whose body. No cause of death. You hear about the murder? No motive is set for the murder. And these people who are attracted, they're probably not killers, because according to the investigation, the killer is General Puchac, who escaped. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u40	I'm not narrowing it down, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I'm giving you information.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u41	We'll join Drachewski's films. Not yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, you've been given a draft ruling. I suggest you take it as a foundation. The point is 2782, take a report. Second, the results of the Commission's work should be published in the Voice of Ukraine. And thirdly, this decision takes effect from the day it was adopted. Please vote on the basis. There will be no discussion, for this is the previous report. [[11:03:26]] For 289 I suggest we take it as a decision in general. Is there no objection? I bet you a vote on the adoption of Order 2782 on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the causes of the death of journalist Gongadze. Please vote. [[11:04:00]] For 407 It's been decided. Thank you. The second reading is our chapter. The draft Law on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Buildings and Buildings and Instigation Areas and Municipal Services, which was formed on December 1, 2006. Registration number 2679. Member of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities Zkutak Zinovy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u45	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Law on Restructuring Debt for Services in Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Integral Areas and Municipal Services, which was established on December 1, 2006, registration number 2679, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on December 6, 2006, was adopted at the first reading on December 13, 2006, with the commission of the Committee to further develop it in a second reading during the week. During this time, a proposal was made by the chairman of the committee of Yuri Serbin, who was supported by the majority of the members of the committee at yesterday’s meeting. I will note that, during the consideration of the bill at the committee meeting on 19.12.2006, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kucherenk, expressed a separate opinion on the inadequacy of adopting a bill without legislative adjustment to the restructuring of the housing and utility debt for energy consumption and on the commitments to the budget in terms of the debt that is being restructured to the population. The proposal is prepared, and I mean the proposal by the head of the Serbian Committee for an analysis of information from all regions of Ukraine, cities: Kharkiv, Simferopol, Ivano-Frankivska, Sevastopol, Donetsk, Plain, Odessa and Cherniv. All of the cities noted have a positive assessment of the results of Ukraine’s existing Law of 20.02. In 03 and supporting the adoption of Bill No. 2679. At the same time, city leaders highlight such key points as those of the committee head. The ability of the population to restructure debt up to five years of age does not allow businesses to receive payments on time for housing services in full, which has a negative impact on the repayment of corporate debt to creditors, primarily energy-efficient enterprises. That is to say, we need to be able to restructure debt to energy companies in the field. The socio-economic consequences of adopting the bill. The adoption of the bill will allow two interrelated issues to be resolved. First, the use of fully-funded and socially unprotected housing subsidies. And the second. Improve the financial and economic situation of residential-communal enterprises. In view of the above, please support the adoption of the bill in the drafting committee as a whole as the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, as the reporter has already said, have taken into account one proposal. Is there a note? Does no one object to such an offer? No, so, I'm betting, with your permission, on the vote. Is it coming? Kucherenko, please, please, correct Serbia's number one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear friends, Alexy Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, head of the Housing and Utilities Subcommittee. Well, first of all, unfortunately, the reporter forgot to read a single opinion from a subcommittee that, at a committee meeting last night, stood firm against this bill. Secondly, I would like to say that I have personally surveyed dozens of water- and heat-generating enterprises in Ukraine. No leader supported the bill. Thirdly, I ask you to take my opinion: you can support Mr. Serbin's amendment, but only on one condition, as it was yesterday when you consider land issues, that this bill becomes effective only after the adoption of a law on debt restructuring for water-heating enterprises. Without these conditions, this bill will not work, and this populism will be exclusively at the expense of businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, well, just because a man with knowledge of the matter is talking about the situation, he hasn't interrupted it. Because he was saying the right thing, but not the question I was asking. So, dear fellows, there were no objections to the whole amendment to the law, as I understand it. I am voting on the second reading and generally as a law on the restructuring of the debt for services provided for the maintenance of houses and buildings and profitable territories and utilities that were formed on December 1, 2006. Registration number 2679. Please vote. [[11:10:07]] For 277 The law is passed. The factions. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 19, Our Ukraine – 17, Socialists – 30, Communists – 51, non-fractional – 5. Let's move on to ratification issues. The draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of information with limited access is being complied with. Registration number 0048. Reported to the deputy head of the Security Service, Anatoly Mikolayovich. Get ready for Scybinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of information with limited access is proposed. This agreement was signed last year in Luxembourg. It is based on the need to create legal frameworks for the exchange of secrets, particularly in the fields of scientific, technical, economic and political cooperation. The agreement provides a purely equal partnership and gives no advantage to either party. Similar agreements were made by Ukraine with 24 nations. It's the United States, it's Russia, it's Poland, it's the Czech Republic and a lot of others, and they're all ratified today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A corresponding ratification is also required by this agreement. The bill we have prepared is unnoticeable with the MCS, Mineconomy, Minfin, and other interested authorities. It is fully in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the requirements of standard design technology. The implementation of the bill will not require additional budget costs, nor will the implementation of the agreement require the adoption of new legislative acts. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u50	Thank you, Anatoly Mikolayovich. Are there any questions? Yes, sign in. Yes, please, let's give all three of us a chance to ask. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction. I think our faction will support the ratification of this agreement, and that can be said in the speech. Now, here's a question for the reporter. Here we have article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret, which states that secret information and its material media can only be transmitted to a foreign State or an international organization on the basis of international agreements, which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine or in writing on the authority of the President of Ukraine. Do we have a mechanism today in the sense that the Supreme Council will be involved in this process? What does consent mean? How will this agreement go through the Supreme Council itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u52	Thank you for your attention. The thing is, the most important thing the Supreme Council will say about this deal is the ratification. And after that, from the first day of the first month after the ratification, this treaty will enter into force, that is, it will be implemented. Well, there's no other way to influence it. And so the most important thing that the Supreme Council will accept is ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u53	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Mikolaiovich, please tell me this is a continuation of the question raised by colleague Šibko. Really. Under article 32 of the State Secret Act, secret information can be transmitted on the basis of international agreements, right? It is agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given responsibility, but there is also this law “or the written reasoned order of the President of Ukraine”. Yeah, I have a question. Clearly, it is the Supreme Council. It's a collegiate body and it determines the policy of our state in every direction. As for the President today, who can evaluate or motivate his orders or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u55	If you get out of the text of the law, of course, the President can determine which secret information will be available to the European Union. But this is determined, so that both sides and the European Union, and Ukraine, have a bearing on this secret, this secret information and as one of the mechanisms of access to this information on the basis of a treaty ratified by the Supreme Council, of course, the President may also have, as it is written in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u56	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear Anatoly Mikolaiovich, my question is also addressed by President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko of Ukraine, more faithfully, with his decree that the deputy heads of the SBU should be men of military service. Won't it be time for us to vote on this bill and then we'll go to the Constitutional Court with this bill? I mean, how empowered are you to report this law here in the session room today? First question. And the second question. Please tell me how this bill fits, if we vote for it, the requirements of the law that is fundamental to us, because we have often had such precedents when the bill that is being passed did not correspond to the basic one. I mean the bill on Ukraine's international contracts. Whether and to what extent it corresponds to the Law on International Treaties of Ukraine. Thank you. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u58	First question. I don't want to comment on the President's decree that the deputy heads of the Security Service should be just military, that is, military personnel. I'll go on to say that there is no order to release me from my post as deputy head of the Security Service. That's why I think of myself for the time being, and I think you'll also support me in this sense that I'm a figure legitimate, because the mechanism itself, you know, this is the President's release order. As to the second question. Is it in compliance with the International Contracts Act? This is how the Law “On International Contracts” requires ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u59	Thank you, Anatoly Mikolayovich. Please sit down. Alexander Skybinetsky, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council on 5 December considered a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on a security procedure for the exchange of information with restricted access. Our conclusion is that the bill is designed to provide legal basis for the exchange of classified information when necessary, and to take into account the prospects for military, technical, economic, scientific and political cooperation within the framework of individual agreements and contracts. The Committee, taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the agreement. Similar decisions to support the bill were received from the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European integration and legal policy issues. We suggest ratifying the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Any questions? Well, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u62	The honourable reporter, who just spoke to the Deputy Head of the SBA, said that there is already a whole range of agreements with countries that are actually part of the European Union. It's similar. For the purpose of this article. If we ratify this agreement, will it then be necessary to somehow change those agreements, adapt them to this agreement, or will they just be automatically cancelled? Because this covenant itself does not say anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u63	Agreements made directly with countries and with the European Union as subjects of international law will also work. There's no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Alexander Matviyovich, please sit down. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Security Procedures for the exchange of information with restricted access. Registration number 0048. [[11:20:50]] For 393 Act adopted, deal ratified. A draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on free trade since 17 December 1992 is under consideration. Registration number 0046. Reported Deputy Minister of Economics Petnice Valeriy Teziyovich, prepare for Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u65	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on free trade since 17 December 1992. This Protocol was drafted on October 18, 2005, in Minsk, and it foresees that a number of provisions that have been in force since 1992 in the Free Trade Agreement have been clarified, since both Ukraine and Belarus are negotiating the entry into the World Trade Organization and, of course, this should be reflected in the relevant agreement. And this applies, in particular, to the use of customs, taxes, congregations that have an equivalent effect on exports or imports of goods; the possible use of restrictive measures in bilateral trade to bring them into international rules and regulations; the application of tariff and non-tariff rules also defines a number of rules. And the possibility of meeting these commitments regardless of what additional commitments each country will make to third countries. According to the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this Protocol is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s draft law is accepted without notice by the central authorities of the executive branch of Ukraine, Mineconomy, MZS, Minegropolitics, Minest and Minfin. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Any questions? No, it's all clear. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plonikov Alexy Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u67	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 13 December considered a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on free trade since 17 December 1992. Of course, we think it's an important document. It will allow to improve the legal provision of the trade regime between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. Taking this into account, and also taking into account that the Supreme Council's Chief Analytical Expert Office has reached a positive conclusion on this bill, the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to support this bill. I also urge you to do so and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Would you like to share in the discussion? Vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on free trade since 17 December 1992, registration number 0046. Please vote. [[11:24:58]] For 407 The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. Thank you. We need to make a decision to consider the following bills in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:25:30.]] For 359 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I ask your consent to start over. The nominee asks, head of the committee, there are two bills of education to be considered, and it was today. No objections? The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, registration number 2090, is under consideration. [[on the conservation of children's out-of-school institutions]] She's reporting to Katherine Samylik. Get ready for Lychuku Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, if the hall agrees, I will report both on behalf of the bill's author and on behalf of the committee to shorten the time for colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u71	And I want to thank you for such a pleasant exception to me. Dear colleagues, the project proposes to amend the Ukrainian law on extra-school education and how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds. Making adjustments to these laws will help preserve all types of schools and forms of ownership and expand their networks, strengthen the work of raising an adult generation. It's about children's sports schools, clubs, the Small Academy of Arts, folk crafts, the Small Academy of Student Youth Sciences, health facilities for children and young people, the initial specialized art institutes, centres, palaces, houses, art clubs for children, youth and youth, children's libraries, children's stadium, schoolroom, courses, studios, etc. Unfortunately, today we must note that current legislation does not guarantee the preservation and continuation of the work of a secondary school in the event of bankruptcy by the owner. The point is that the property of out - of - school educational institutions, the land in which the premises are located, includes the basic funds belonging to the taxpayer. And that's why in everyday life, we have a number of examples where, with debt, tax authorities force, I emphasize, the owner to pay the tax debt at the expense of basic funds, land and other property of an extra-school school. So an extra-school education facility is no longer a educational institution. Clearly, we are supported by all the ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u73	I'll finish in two. Except, of course, the State Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, I could give you some examples of almost every single department and department left with only 10 percent of extra-school facilities, because everything went to pay off the tax debt. For the sake of the children, these are not just high words, but I would like to ask you very much to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u74	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Yes, they are willing to share in the discussion. Yeah, two in, two in. Who's green, who's against red? Press. Oleg Grigorovich, push the button or the hand won't help! Already? Yes, please, Tomenko, from the "Julia Timoshenko" and Matthews. Yes, please, Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, an extremely important legislative initiative, but I think we need to think together about this first step, because we have to do today, I'm going to report on a bill that's related to the ban on retraining and closing the network of sports institutions from a sports facility to a health facility, but we need to work on how we read this recovery procedure because in a system of extra-school education at some point, the state has made an extremely serious mistake, it has brought this out of a centralized funding system of protected articles and passed it on to a local funding system and at a later point it becomes clear that there is no funding for an extra-school system. So there was a situation that Catherine Semenovna would report. If there are no funds, there is a situation where both the basic funds and the earth and everyone else in the world need to be accounted for. So obviously we need not only to support this bill, but between the first and the second reading we need to think about how to get out of the colossal, that if there is real debt and we're forbidding land, property, then how do we get out of this debt, whether there's a local government, or if there's some other way to do it? And think about how to move on. My idea is that we need to be able to centrally finance an extra-school education system, so that we have groups, sports and education, at least in a minimum, and that children don't drop out of school after school, but have the opportunity to get better there, and do other activities. So I would like to stress once again that our faction will support this bill and will contribute to the re-establishment of a system of extra-school education and extra-school education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u76	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, of course, our faction will be supported by the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Preservation of Children's Out-of-school Institutions. And I call upon this and all the national MPs. Catherine Semenovna spoke convincingly about the need to adopt such an important legal act that would at least allow this to be solved today is not a simple but a very important problem. Let me give you just a few examples. According to the National Statistical Committee of Ukraine, the number of children's health institutions, i.e. subordination camps, for example, in 2001 there were 124 in the Minagropolitics in 2005 -- there were only 65 left; in the system, I mean, Minprompolitics, i.e. its enterprises, there were 85 such camps in 2001. There's only 39 left, so the shortcut goes twice, three times, even five to six times. So the need for adoption of this bill is confirmed and given to me by this data, the data of the State, I emphasize, the statistical committee. So, dear fellows, we are you, the faction of Communists calls on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the conservation of children's out-of-school institutions]] Registration number 2090. Please vote. [[11:34:10]] For 392 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u79	No, they say there is. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is under consideration. [[on the age of candidates for the post of Head of the Higher Education Institute and Head of the Faculty]] Registration number 2186. There's got to be a reporter here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u80	It's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u81	No, no, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please. Mikola Vasilovich. Your report will be, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u82	I thought we were in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u83	No, no, there's Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u84	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I have the honour and commission to report to you on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which deals with issues related to admission to a competition concerning the possible selection and appointment of Deans of the faculties of persons whose term of office is duly established under the rules established for the Rectors of these educational institutions. The point is that, on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s decision number 14 of 07.07.2004, the position of the second part of the first part of article 39 of the Higher Education Act of Ukraine has become unconstitutional. In particular, this position set the age limit for a candidate to be head of a higher education institution. The Constitutional Court considered the appropriate submission and concluded that the law could not prohibit the participation of a person over 65 years of age in a competition for the position of Rector of a higher educational institution. This decision of the Constitutional Court is in line with the convention obligations of Ukraine, which, inter alia, foresees that restrictions on access to a profession can only be imposed on the public service or other special activities that provide for individual signs, such as health, education, and so on. Activities with the Rector of the Higher Education Institute, and with the Deans of the Faculty, as was the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u85	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich. Complete, two minutes, report. It's a shortcut procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u86	Adam Ivanovich, two minutes in the discussion, but a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u87	Mikolo Vasilovich, if you'll excuse me, you'll be able to read the Rules. I don't have time to argue. Have a seat, please. Catherine Semenovna. We voted that this was a reduced procedure. And two minutes' worth of reports, and two minutes' worth of speeches. There's half a sentence, and you want it. Mikolo Vasilovich, I'm sorry, the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u88	Mikola Vasilovich told us all that it was the initiative of the Ukrainian National Deputies to turn to the Constitutional Court. Well, unfortunately, you and I sometimes adopt Ukrainian laws, which, literally, after a year or six months, are not confirmed in real life. And that's why we really need to correct this mistake. And, believe me, if you have to fire the rector or the dean of the faculty, there will be a lot of clues to solve this issue. I just want to say one thing. Yesterday we held a meeting of the Board of Rectors, the Board of Directors of the whole of Ukraine, and together with our committee. They asked us to support it. Why? Because there's a very large personnel problem. You and I have not been able to solve all the human resources problems before the laws are passed, and what you know is, scientist, not according to our wishes, not after a month and two years, but for that it takes God’s spark to work on itself and much more. I just want to give you one example. According to the Ministry of Education and Science, at 199 higher education institutions in the third, fourth level of accreditation, which are subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science, only 20 percent of the rectors who are over 65 years of age. So that's practically the question and that's how it's solved. And of course, we asked this question to be settled. In the head of the faculty, that's not a problem at all. If a person does not give in to the job, if he does not work, there are many important things that can practically solve this, and this is a non-infectious issue. I ask you to support this bill. Let's fix this mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u89	Let's do it, yeah. Thank you. Would you like to make a statement? None. Yes. Melniczuk and Belarus. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk and Cibenko. But no. No, it's not. Sign up, two "for", two "against", because this is going to be all "for", we're breaking the Rules. Who's "for" is red, or who's "for" is green, who's "against" is red. Yes, Javorowski and Matthew. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich, microphone. Did you do "impromisingly" how will that be Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u90	He's terribly asking for the word "Belarus," and I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u91	Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Volodymyr, you supported science. It's not about science at first. Prince Gorchakov was a chancellor of the Russian Empire at the age of 99, but he was a scientist. He taught. He says: “You young people have nothing in your head, and no gun in Europe can shoot without our consent.” Age is not all. You have to have oil in your head, then there will be science and there will be results. And so mechanically set up for positions where scientists are supposed to occupy, age limitations, we're going to do that. in a state that will throw us into a circle of five of those countries that are developing weakly and do not want to develop. So I think that our faction, like all the wise factions, supports this bill because it is discrimination, and Catherine Semenovna rightly said that if there are reasons, a person can be removed from work at 35 years of age. And at 65, we can do that. Thank God, you've had a lot of experience since the old days. So in order for our science, which needs to be integrated with a higher school, to make sure that the higher school reaches the patterns of European, world-wide, when the whole world is on a post-industrial path of noospheric development, that is, development through the human mind, through permanence, through perspective, this issue needs to be settled and this will be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. I don't think I'd be wrong to say that we have all the wise factions, because they all vote unanimously for it. Please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u94	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u95	Zibank Peter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u96	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, the problem that needs to be solved by adopting this amendment to the Higher Education Act, is said to be a beard problem. Those of us who came from the previous composition of the Supreme Council remember that we approached her repeatedly. I am absolutely convinced that they wanted to do what was best. But it must have been the case that they wanted to do better, and it turned out the way it always did. It's about finding such an effective balance between age, for example, a person as a leader, and the number between trying to open the widest possible way for our scientific youth. Given that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, we simply implement the decision of the Constitutional Court under the Higher Education Act with these changes to the law de facto. And speaking of the need for rejuvenation of human resources among scientists, I would like to say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the submission of the Science and Education Committee, is working very consistently, because there is a whole range of actions that we are trying to really open up to young people. Including the introduction of a scholarship for qualified students, for young scientists. And all of this, I'm absolutely sure, will pay off. And so, I would like to say, in finding this balance between age and human talent, it would be right if we supported this bill today. Thank you. In general, it is desirable to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have no record, no, no. Believe me, I don't have a board, I don't control it. Dear colleagues, the only refinement, the only clarification, here we go, a little bit about scientists, but more about the heads of schools and Deans of the faculty. They're also scientists, but this doesn't apply to academic and scientific research institutions. This has to do with educational institutions only. What is it, Baldirev? All right, I'll be right with you, Baldwin, Tomenko in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The falsification of history begins with a trifle. First, we put in words that in Europe, no gun has fired at Gorchakov's mouth, while they belong to a completely different chancellor, the native of our lands, the Toothless, and then we can get to the fact that the UN-OPA soldiers are the liberators of Ukraine. So let's do it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u99	That's not the point. Turn off the microphone. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I fully support these speakers of our science, but Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right. The idea of the bill applied to administrative positions. And I want to tell you that if we don't form a self-governance system today, we're going to have the rectors, and they're going to pass on the branches to their children. Because if you look at it, we already have this family in colleges that we can't even analyze how money is used as budgets are formed. The same is true of the leaders of academic institutions. Because there you know we have hundreds of thousands of square meters of rent per penny and no one can check it out. So I'd like us not to simplify the problem. We don't support scientists or scientists, we need to understand that there should be a person in charge who is accountable and accountable. And I'm absolutely convinced that we're going back to that subject. Maybe 65 years old, but in a different norm, because that's actually the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u101	Yes, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I would like to see you at a more mature age, what you will then say. Please, Onechuk. I mean, in mature physiology.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you were so right that two minutes for a summary report, although not related to. You'll have to see, correct the Rules in that sense. Dear colleagues! The faction “Our Ukraine” will support this bill in the first reading and in general. I want to pay attention to this, because, according to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it's recommended to be accepted on both the basis and in general. We would also like Parliament to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I propose to take a step towards a decision by the Constitutional Court. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, we must put it into law. That's why I'm voting on adoption as a whole, as a law, to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 2186. [[on the age of candidates for the post of Head of the Higher Education Institute and Head of the Faculty]] Let us show that we are all wise. [[11:49:09]] For 348 The overwhelming number of factions has been supported, and the law has been passed. Thank you. But let's look at the factions. Region Party – 175, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 74, "Our Ukraine" – 45, socialists – 28, communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. The draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 2225, is under consideration. [[on notarial certification and registration of contracts for the employment of buildings]] Author of the Evgen Hoornik initiative, please prepare for Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u104	Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Law enforcement problems are constantly faced by tenants and tenants in an attempt to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code regarding mandatory notarial certification and the State registration of fixed - property leases for one or more years. In connection with the introduction of article 793-794 of the Civil Code of Ukraine on 1 January 2004, the contract for the lease of a building for 365 days or more is subject to a notary certificate, which is poured out to the renter in an additional amount of 1 per cent of the amount of rent payments for the entire lease contract. The bill proposes to increase the lease period from one to three years. This bill has quite a long history. That's the second line. And during his passage through the Supreme Council, circumstances changed somewhat. In this second edition, virtually all the observations of the former Scientific and Scientific Administrations and Ministries are taken into account. But there were new ones. And I'd like to comment on them. The first observation by the Scientific and Expert Office suggests that the notary registration of such contracts be eliminated altogether. Well, that's not right. We have to protect the renter and the renter. As far as the Ministry of Finance's observations on budget cuts are concerned. During the work on this document, the rates of duty decreased and virtually no financial losses. But the ministry is offering to increase them a little bit. And about legal technology. Well, the law is so simple that I don't know what else can be changed here. Although I'd like the Ministry of Justice to just make a concrete proposal on how to do this. I offer to accept it in the first reading, if there are no comments, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u105	Eugene Alexiyovich, it's very easy to change, to change years. What's there to change? Please sit down. Tarasov Vladimir, head of the Committee on Legal Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, a draft of the Ukrainian Civil Code amending the Civil Code on Notarial Certification and Registration of Contracts for the Employment of Buildings, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gornik. As the subject of the legislative initiative sees it, citizens and entrepreneurs face difficult points of legislation in trying to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code regarding mandatory notary and state registration, leases, fixed property for one or more years. The bill proposes to amend articles 793 and 794 of the Ukrainian Civil Code by increasing the duration of contracts for the employment of buildings or other capital buildings or parts thereof without their notarial identification and registration from one year to three. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to make a statement? There are those who want it, so we're going to write it down. The supporter has a green push button. The one against it is red. So far, only Yavorowski wants me to support him. None. There's only one faction. Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, well, obviously we all feel that the right is becoming increasingly pervasive in all aspects of our lives, and the situation itself, the change in life itself requires this, will not happen today, let's say, an important institution, that is, neither legal nor physical person. I took the floor not because I'm such a great expert on these issues, but because my life as the head of the National Society is pushing me to vote for this bill. Let's say when you make a rental agreement, and these contracts are so purely personal, I'd say, character. And then, when we have to go to court, they are, as a rule, no longer valid. Because of this, what the national deputy Gournik has proposed is absolutely relevant, it is smart, and it is essential. Besides, these contracts are going to exhibit some kind of normal or very close to the real price of this lease. As a result, a tax may normally be paid. I am convinced that such a bill is essential. Once again, he's very smart, he's very relevant, and I just want to say thank you to the Manual for introducing such a bill. It's like it's not there, it means it's fundamental, it's like it's there without such a special meaning and stuff, but it's vital in life. I'm going to vote for him, and I think the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, and the other bill will support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. You once again confirmed the truth “everything is genius – simple”. Yeah, no more? Against? There's no other way. So I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to the Civil Code Act. [[on notarial certification and registration of contracts for the employment of buildings]] Registration number 2225. Please vote. [[11:56:43]] For 369 For 369. Can we take it in general? Is there no objection? No objections? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on notarial certification and registration of contracts for the employment of buildings]] Registration number 2225. Please vote. [[11:57:18]] For 372 372, Act adopted. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u110	Please take your seats. A little less of us than ever. We're continuing the meeting. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the procedure for the removal of documents, registration number 2276, is under consideration. Is there a Bondik? Please, please. Head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Our colleague Krutz was the author of this bill. It should be noted that the bill had already been introduced in a previous call, but it did not go through. Briefly, the conclusions of our committee. This bill deserves attention, it needs to be redrafted. And here, our opinion is consistent with that of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Because some things are not considered by the author of the bill. For example, the idea itself is not bad, for it requires and trains such responsibility and disciplines law enforcement officials, that is, forensic investigation and knowledge, that is, when removing documents for searches or for removals, they should make copies of documents. By the way, the author of the bill doesn't say on whose account it is. And he practices such practices as, he writes, giving to interested persons. But the interested person can also be the counterparties. We therefore propose that he accept the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Office and say "owners" because he owns the documents. Next. The author of the bill did not take into account that some businesses already have electronic accounting, and he said that only paper carriers. So I say to our subcommittee that this bill deserves attention. I would suggest it on behalf of the committee to accept, but I would like to elaborate and invite the author to work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Have a seat, please. In fact, the same proposal was considered by another committee, the Committee on Legal Policy, which was defined not as a head but as an auxiliary committee. He also makes a positive conclusion that the procedure deserves attention. Yes, who would like to make a statement? Please for the green, against the red button. Yeah, so far the plus is the Yaduha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u113	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u114	Can I have a microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, as never before, need attention today. It's probably just that category of people who, in their lives, in their work, didn't have anything to do with these actions -- removing especially documents, can today say that they don't need it. A very important and important bill, because we know that not once or twice, especially in the process of our work, are the managers of enterprises, organizations, institutions where, practically, investigators, other law enforcement authorities are removing documents without any explanation, and then, even to carry out, even, any business activity, managers are either going to the police or to the prosecution's office and getting a negative answer or not having access to those documents. Therefore, the bill clearly needs to be supported and, of course, the main point of the bill is to establish a certain deadline for providing information to interested persons, the heads of any institution and organization regarding deleted documents and the obligation to obtain copies in the course of the investigation. Because if the investigating authorities refuse to make a copy, they should really give a solid answer for what reasons. The bill is absolutely supported and we believe that it can be accepted as a basis and made further changes; it is too important for modern life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u116	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u117	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. It seems to me that we have to be completely supportive in this respect. Well, as life suggests, it's also a parliamentary practice, especially mine, for example, for many years. Very often, people say that, for example, when they were confiscated during the search, some of them disappeared. Instead, there were some very different ones. And then, of course, it makes all the procedures extremely difficult for the prosecution prosecutors, and for the judges, where the truth is sought and so on. Because of this, I think life itself has led to the filling of this hole in the judicial, legal system, in the legal field of Ukraine. And really, when you take out documents or other documents, the person you're accused of must have copies of these documents, because sometimes it's the only one, and maybe even the most important evidence that's left in your hands. However, I speak to those who said today that the bill needs some clarification. Indeed, in what way should these copies be made? Should they be done after documents, such as those in the prosecutor’s office or in the police department? I am not a proponent of this because some documents may disappear along this road. Obviously, the best thing to do is to do it directly, let's say, not in the first hours of searching. Similarly, of course, who will pay for these expenses? Some more of these things need to be clearly fixed. And I'm sure we'll have another addition and fill another white spot in our legislation. We'll vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u118	Thank you. So I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the first reading. We need to record, Mikolo Vasilovich. I'm not signing up for you, I'm sorry. I'm not signing up for you. I'm betting on a first-reading vote based on the draft Law on Amendments to Criminal Procedure Ukraine, registration number 2276. [[about the order in which to delete documents]] Please vote. [[12:38:17]] For 379 The Law was adopted in the first reading. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Organised Crime is under consideration to regulate the functions of the National Bank. Registration number 2239. I don't see the author of the initiative. Please, Sergey Mishchenko, deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u119	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues and Citizens of Ukraine I think, if there is no drafter of the Stretovich bill here, I'm both from the committee and from the author, and I'd like to propose to you to consider the bill and ask you to support it. It should be noted that this bill complies with our civil code, the Police Act, the Ukrainian Security Service, the prevention and resistance of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and the Banking and Banking Act, in accordance with article 18, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. The Committee also notes that the text of the bill should replace the words “part” and “point” with the words “paragraph” respectively and “subparagraph”. But in the name of the draft law, delete the words for sorting the functions of the NBA. It will meet the requirements of standard design technology. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. And if you'd like to support it as a whole as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The one supporting the bill is pressing the green button that does not support it, the red button. Yes, please, Oleg Lakota, microphone out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The “Julia Timoshenko Block” supports this bill. It is indeed necessary to arrange for Nazbank’s responsibilities by cancelling the absence of a banking institution, but I, Adam Ivanovich, would like to say, Adam Ivanovich, would like to say otherwise. We have previously considered a bill to amend article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code on leaving copies of documents that are being deleted, and my colleague in faction, Vladimir Yavorowski, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Supreme Council, gave a reasonable explanation of why we are going to vote in favour of this bill. And most importantly, notice that no one in the room had any allergies, that it wasn't the bill that made a statement, or something else. So I'd like to encourage some of the so-called Anti-Crist Coalition, where there's obviously some kind of allergy on Lasca, to hold back their emotions and act masculinely, to say what they think, not behind their backs is mean and sneaky. And to be calm, because when I think that I'm oriented in the matter, I as a deputy have the right to take the floor, to speak out of any question that's being considered at a session, and not some people there allow themselves to say that I'm not talking about it. I'm not telling anyone what to talk about. Please don't tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u122	But let me show you that you're not talking about that. Yes, please, Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, I would like to continue to ensure the right of factions to speak on grounds of vote under a reduced procedure of law whether we are registered or not. This isn't about Oneichuk, it's about the political power and the party that is represented in Parliament. And now I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Arjevetine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u124	Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u125	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. All we have to do is thank the author for this proposal, because this proposal essentially liberalizes the currency market that is currently in place today, and that's the main thing that's going to get the National Bank out of a really, uninhabited function. But it should be stressed that this is not the only rudimentary that remains in the banking system today. I'll give you just a few examples that need regulation, too. A national bank under some pressure today is planning to launch an infamous new year, I'd even say, a disgraceful practice of record-breaking number three in the banking system. This is, of course, contrary to the Constitution, to the various laws on the uninterrupted collection of funds from customers in banking institutions, and above all, to the conflict of the Client Bank. I would like to give another example where the 2007 budget provides for and places a function in the National Bank for which it has to raise costs in Appendix 8 to the revenue of the State budget, namely from the placement in the institutions of banks of temporarily free budgetary resources. I would like to point out that free budget agreements are between owners and banking institutions, similar agreements the National Bank does not have and should not own. So this function also needs to be settled. So I would like to support the proposal made by Deputy Stretovich to settle this inconsequential function, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u126	Matthew's Sergey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u127	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to land a little of all those who support this bill today with such inspiration and to recall some things. We have talked very recently about the need to fight against shadow and dirty money, and we have recently taken steps to remove the fax from the control mechanism. And only recently did we get permission to leave these lists, so to speak. This is what the bill refers to. If we are to the left and right to grant uncontrolled licences for exchange functions, I do not think we will do better for Ukraine. If we lose control of more than 2 million for legal persons and 40,000 for individuals, what the law provides for today. We can't do anything better. We talk a lot about corruption, we talk a lot about walking dirty and black money. And this law literally, so to speak, that we changed the legislation literally a year ago in order to make a normal transparent scheme today, we are now returning, to say the opposite. And I would like to think about it before we vote on this bill. So if there are, so to speak, suggestions to somehow remove unnecessary obstacles, that's one question. But this bill is aimed not only at removing too many obstacles, but also to completely decompress, let us say, the whole system that we've been preparing. Therefore, our faction will continue to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u128	Yes, please, Volodymyr Stretovich, microphone. The author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u129	Vladimir Stretović, HDZ Party, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I'm late for transitions, but the requirement for acceptance has been able to get into the law on combating organised, legal bases for combating crime, this is the desire of the National Bank of Ukraine. Since he had lost his legislative initiative since 1 January 2006, he turned to me. As an MP, I expressed their position. As far as the subject is concerned. I want to tell you that we have today a law on financial monitoring, which is quite effective, and there is a special unit in the Ministry of Finance that monitors all transactions. The question is not to give executive power structures, including police data on who's opening accounts, in what way -- they're asking for a license not to control these processes. If we're talking about market freedom, money circulation, money flows are controlled today, in a state-set way. But with regard to information, there is a question of banking secrecy. And for the purpose of bringing the law to the law on banks and banking, this proposal is being made. Believe me, there's nothing presumptuous about this. So I would like to ask you a favor. Let's take it from the first reading. Experts in your factions, groups will study it carefully. And in this way we can answer whether we need to make changes or not. By the way, I remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers is backing this bill. The committee has, personally, a letter from Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov, who says that it is supported for the adoption of this bill, taking into account the comments that have been made in this letter. So I propose to go to a meeting with the National Bank of Ukraine, to adopt the bill in its first edition, to work on it, and then to collectively express the will of the legislators in the final drafting of the law. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u130	Thank you. It's all clear. If I were the National Bank, I wouldn't want to do any extra work either. That's right. They refuse to do what needs to be done. But will this nation win? Let's see what the Ministry of Finance has to say. Please have the opinion of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u131	tailor Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister of Finance. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that the adoption of such a law in this edition will contribute, perhaps, to the recalculation of foreign currency funds under fictitious contracts with non-residents, as well as to purchase contracts, such as securities in non-residents, where the real value of these securities is exceeded. Nor will this contribute to the detection of pseudo-export operations, illegal damages, and VAT laundering. So the Ministry of Finance thinks that solving the issues that have been raised may be by simplifying the mechanism of the National Bank's interaction with the special authorities to combat organized crime and also shortening the deadline for obtaining the findings of law enforcement agencies. On the basis of this, we propose not to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u132	Yes, the minister supports, the deputy does not. But we will be determined if we believe in Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on Organised Crime. [[about sorting of NBA functions]] 2239 Bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:33]] For-179 The law is not supported. Declined. A draft Act on the addition to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations is under consideration. [[about the company’s income]] Registration number 1303. Reported to the national deputy of Goncharov. Prepare the Voropeyeva. Is it Goncharov? He was the head of the Economic Policy Committee subcommittee. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u133	Bill 1303 is very simple and very short. The bottom line is that any equity company is obliged to pay at least 15 per cent of the profits it receives during the year. The Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill on 15 November this year and decided by a majority vote to support it and recommend that the Supreme Council approve the bill. This bill has the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which contains: one, two, three, four, five, six negative points that will lead to the adoption of the bill. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers believes that this will not help shareholders in any way, because the dividends are being paid, thereby reducing the potential value of the shares themselves. One. Second. There is no such restriction on the rights of shareholders in any country of the world. This is a norm, it is an intervention in the activities of shareholders. By the way, it is contrary to the corporate governance code of the economic cooperation organization. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Sit down, please. Who's up for it, who's up for it? Let's get out of here. Kuzmenko, please, Sergei. He's got a Jaduh on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Sergey Kuzmenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Zaporozhye In my opinion, this law, despite its shortcomings, this bill, despite its shortcomings, is of great importance, and I would now not first speak of protecting even shareholders' rights, although tens, hundreds of thousands of people who, in the course of the initial privatization, received for the vouchers of the shares today can practically hang them on the wall and do nothing with them, in the framework yet to do, I want to say something else, until we have guaranteed payment of dividends on shares, until then there will be no real stock market in Ukraine, because the stock market is really an opportunity to sell or buy stocks at any time that you think is necessary, to form a portfolio of shares. And today, it's practically only worth blocking a packet or a control package. Other stocks outside this package have no value because they do not give any rights except for a sense of inner satisfaction. So a law that somehow guarantees any shareholder's right to receive dividends is absolutely necessary. It doesn't matter if we're going to pass this law now, or if we're going to adopt another law, but in the end it's necessary, without it, there's never going to be a stock market in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u136	Nuts, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u137	Basil Yaduha, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, at first glance, the proposed bill, on the one hand, seems to have positive trends, because we want to settle with it and allow members of society to legally, without justification, to receive certain, especially 15 percent, seems to be the amount of dividends. But from my point of view, today we should also state the role, place and responsibility of the members of the association themselves, and perhaps the relationship between the management of the association and the members of the association is governed by entirely different legislative acts. I think that, given the approach proposed by this bill, the principle of freedom of administration is being violated in general by the property of a society with which legal persons have income, and therefore there is no support for the bill, even though it has positive trends. It is also worth mentioning in article 3 of Part 158 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, under which any shareholder society has no right to advertise and pay dividends to the full payment of the entire statutory fund at the cost of the net assets of the shareholders and many other legislative acts that are governed by certain laws. Therefore, considering that the bill in principle violates the rights and freedoms of shareholders, it needs to be carefully worked out. My offer. In the first reading, consider it, given the bill, and return to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u138	Please, Alexander Bondar instead of Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u139	Alexander Bondar, U.P.R. "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". The "Our Ukraine" faction cannot support this bill for the following reasons. First. The problem of the protection of minority shareholders should be addressed, not by partial changes to the Associations Act, but by the submission of the Act on Shareholders, which has long been prepared by the Securities Commission, but by no means can the government agree and submit to the Supreme Council. All rights, including dividend payments, are settled and this is a complex issue. The other one. In addition, it is said that this is contrary to many laws and codes; it does not solve the problem in practice. Since a loving company can hold shareholders and make other decisions, it will be valid, since it is enshrined in the charter of the shareholders. In addition, it will provoke shareholders to hide their net profits and not show them to avoid paying dividends. So we can get back to the situation that exists today. I reiterate that the Government should be required to submit the Act on Shareholders to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Question completed. We'll vote. Turkov, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, you know, you can talk about protecting small shareholders in stockholder societies. In fact, there are societies where hundreds, or thousands, have not received a single penny in their lives after a voucher of privatization, especially thousands of small shareholders. But this law speaks of all societies, including those created by two, such as owners or three, who save money to buy a light bulb or some equipment. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich and his distinguished colleagues, when we talk about protecting small shareholders, we should clearly record: “For shareholders associations”. And when we talk about an extra tax for Azarov, so that all those who have private businesses, LTD and so on and so forth, would have to pay him 15 percent, then that's another question, it's already a tax law. So our proposal is that we can vote exclusively for stockholders, open stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u142	Thank you. Question completed. I think the authors, well, were guided by humane and good purposes. They set up any plan to, if there are associations, if there are shareholders, get something out of their joint activity because they don’t always give them anything. But as the discussion showed, there is still work to be done here. I would like to vote on the draft Act on Supplementing Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, registration number 1303. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:20]] For-29 This may be the case, but it is clear who does not have a shareholding company. What's going on here? A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is under consideration, registration number 2235. [[concerning the regulation of leasing]] According to the Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. The Europeans are getting ready. Please, Dmitri Volodyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u143	Okay. The honorable head, the distinguished national MPs, throughout the world, is the lysing itself at that time. When it comes to solving the problem of technical equipment. Therefore, the 2235 bill, which provides for amendments to legislation regulating the lysing attitude, needs to be considered in the context of Ukraine's extremely acute problem of wear and tear, namely machinery and equipment. According to expert estimates, Ukraine needs at least 600 billion equity investments, including through lysing mechanisms — about 100 billion dollars. And to compare it, to this day, this market is about a billion dollars, which is 600 times less. One obstacle to the development of lysing in Ukraine is the imperfection and disagreement of domestic legislation. To improve civil legislation that regulates lysing relations, and to implement article 19 of the Ukraine Financial Lease Act, this proposed bill has been drafted. What do we propose in essence? First of all, this bill proposes to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine in order to bring its standards to the current law of Ukraine on financial leasing. With regard to the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship, the bill proposed the removal of the lysing clause from the Code, since the current position of the HK Ukraine in the presence of the analogous provisions of the Civil Code and the Financial Leasing Act has led to a double settlement in practice. It is proposed that changes be made directly to the Financial Leasing Act of Ukraine as part of the regulation of the definition of financial leasing. It must be determined that the implementation of Bill 2235 does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, support this bill and endorse it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u144	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 November this year. Sixteen people attended, 14 of whom voted in favour, two abstaining. We believe that this bill is very useful for our State and for all leasing recipients of any property, as it shakes any problems that arise in the law and eliminates any contradictions. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u146	‘For’ — ‘against’. Red is green. Or green-red. You don't have any witnesses. That's not where the gunman's looking. He's in the right direction. He's not looking, he's looking. Yes, Baby pressed the red button, and it turned out to be green. And that's not what I said. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u147	Stanislav Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." The Banking Committee has repeatedly considered this proposal. And we've had extensive discussions on the issue of accelerated depreciation of the basics that are going on the ice-skating program. The question of evaluation was ambiguous: it was not taxing financial payments or part of them. So our proposal is to support it in the first reading, but we must take into account the comments of our banking committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u149	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm against this bill, and I'm asking you to pass on the word of Natalia to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u150	But it's going to be "for," right? Please, the King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u151	Explanatory. Natalya Královskaya, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. The explanatory note to the draft states that the bill enhances the ability of banks to finance leasing operations. However, the bill proposes to exclude leasing transactions from the list of banking transactions in article 339 and lease credit from the list of types of bank credit. The natural question is, is it an increase in the bank's ability to finance leasing operations, or is it a removal of banks from the possibility of financing a lease? The possibility added to article 10, paragraph 8, of the Financial Lease Act, provided for by the leasing contract, of the leasing right of the lessee to require early payment of leasing payments if the lessee violates the terms of the lease contract on the date of payment. In such situations, civilized relations between operators must be decided in court. Similarly, the idea of the full payment of lease payments under the contract in the event of destruction, loss, theft or distortion of the lease is absurd. Paragraph 2 of the first part of article 13 of the Ukrainian law was added. In such a situation, it would be appropriate to terminate the contract, terminate the leasing payments, and fully compensate the leasing provider. In view of all these comments, as well as the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, I believe that the bill should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u152	Thank you for your support. Yes, please, let's put it to a vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on leasing regulation. Registration number 2235. [[13:07:01]] For 211 There's a proposal and a recommendation from the Scientific and Experimental Authority to send the authors to work. I'll bet you that. For processing. No, that's the first one. For processing. Vote. Easy, don't agitate during the vote. This is forbidden by the Rules. [[13:07:29]] For 231 The law is designed to further the initiative’s authors. The draft Law amending article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Prohibition of the Closure and Re-Profession of Schools and Physical and Sports Purposes, registration number 2181, is under consideration. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, our committee, and especially the National Deputies -- Tomenko, Volkov, Safiullin, Korge -- continue the work that we have started with this kind of inventory of the sports industry we have, and started with the most painful problem -- stopping, closing down sports infrastructure, health facilities, thinking in parallel about how to restore them. After you and I have passed a proper ruling in Parliament, our experts and experts are talking about making our sport and industry feel more confident, that should be the norm of the law. That is precisely why we have made changes to the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. During the discussion and preparation of the draft for the first reading, we had a discussion with our colleagues from the Party of Regions, our colleagues from other factions, and we concluded that obviously we need to resolve several problems between the first and the second readings. The first problem, of course, is that such a ban on retraining and closing sports facilities, health facilities, well, objectively will not be extended to privately owned establishments, and this should be stated in the law, since we cannot give them strict instructions. As for state and municipal property, it turns out that we may have exceptions to the law. For example, in a rural area some 20 or 15 years ago, a sports establishment began to be built. It's just a foundation, it's considered a sports facility, but, of course, it didn't happen and it won't happen again. Perhaps at the suggestion of local self - government, it can be redesigned because it has not yet begun to take place as a sports establishment. So our idea, in the second reading, is to think about how to write these exceptions. For example, by the initiative of the local government and by the agreement of the ministry concerned, such exceptions can be fixed. And in general, I'd like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u154	Yes, please, anyone who wants to make a statement, let's write it down. Yes, Saints, please, Dmitri. Melnichuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Deputy Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u156	I will vote against this bill for one simple reason, and this bill violates the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that the right to private property is inviolable, and further the bill, irrespective of the form of ownership, obliges the owner of the sport structure and preserves it and does not reprofil. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u157	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u158	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, if we had a situation like this 15 years ago and there was a law that was passed by Mr. Tomenko, an honourable MP, whom I highly respect, as a professional, a national MP, we could say that we saved something. Language is not about being reprofiled or doing anything else. In fact, if this is about rural areas, it's about gymnasiums, we're going to talk about physical culture institutions, there's nothing left to talk about. In schools, yes, where there are gymnasiums in high schools, they are stored and, in principle, supported. Nevertheless, I would like to turn to Mr. Tomenko, perhaps for your initiative or other national MPs, to return to the question of the renewal of the physical culture and sports institutions that were working in the village at the time. Perhaps this would be the step that the Ukrainian Parliament should take. And the Socialist Party faction will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Your Honor! Melniczuk's last phrase said that they support this bill, he said, he's in favour, he's in favour. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm not writing up for you. So you're not recording well. It's a system that works. Why is the chairman here? Each of you has a monitor and you can see what the records were. Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I address the Communists and the Socialists first. We ask you to support this bill in the same way that we supported Catherine Samuelk's bill for preservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u161	Turn it off. You're in. And two of them are already in favor. All of it. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the prohibition of the closure and re-invention of physical and health facilities for sports purposes]] Registration number 2181. Vote. [[13:14:22]] For 418 You were worried. All right, you got it. But, really, look, please look there in the second reading, because I'm talking. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please take a good look, because there's a good rule that you can't build anything if you don't build a gym. But make sure that we do not prohibit construction at all. We accepted the first reading. Yes. Now we've got it. A replica of what? Your last name, Mikhail Vasilovich, wasn't called. We should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the powers of public councils]] Registration number 2153. The authors ask him to be transferred to processing. I'm putting this motion to a vote. No, not for tomorrow, for the next session or for January. [[13:15:38]] For 333 A decision has been made. Dear colleagues! Now we go to the chapter. No, there's one more question, I'm sorry. Draft Order on Assignment to the Zaporozhye district of Zaporozhye district, registration number 2689. Olga Bodnar, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u162	Listen first, and then identify yourself. Okay? Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill will decide the fate of the people who live in that village. It is that this project envisages assigning the appointment to a new one, I stress, a new settlement in the Zaporozhye region of the Zaporozhye region called “Hortice Island”. The trouble of assigning this appointment was violated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zaporzik District Council. The name is selected taking into account the history of the Zaporozhye Region as well as the location of the newly created populace. This is the right bank of Dniper across from the island of Hortica. The construction of the area began in the early 1990s, according to the area program “Housing 2000” for individual housing. The settlement has six streets, three alleys. Its electricity and water supply are being carried out. At present, there are 322 citizens living in this village. In view of the number of sites inhabited, the committee decided to take this population point to the village. The question of assigning appointments was approved in the general congregations of the inhabitants of the settlement. It was also considered and supported. The village of Zaporozhye district council and Zaporezka district council. Prejudicing the possibility of a question, I will focus your attention on the fact that the populace is completely new and has nothing to do with the popular "Top Hortica", "Low Horticia". Also, the initial name is in no way associated with the name of the famous vodka drink. If we look at our map of Ukraine, we will not be surprised by the fact that there are villages like the Wall, the Gostra Mogila, the New World, the Vinnitsky Stavi, the Miss of Good Hope, the Cold Jar. And I think that the right of the people who live in this territory is their right to determine what better to call the place where their children will be born. I want to tell you that the people of the village are very hopeful that we will understandably respond to their problem. In the documents they gave me, there's an archive of evidence that there was a Hortical Minanite County in this area. In addition, there is a basis on which citizens are based.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u163	I'm sorry, we're also on short notice. Why did you put 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u164	I'm going to tell you why I'm talking so much because I have questions. I've been approached.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u165	But of course, then I'll explain who did it and what's behind it or what you say. This is followed by one of the companies that does not have a legal address, a well-known company called Horticia. And in order to have an address where they're located, they came up with, they made up data areas, they came up with a name for it to register a legal address. So open up and tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u166	If you're right, I'm probably their main lobbyist, right? I don't drink at all, and I don't know what vodka is, I'm sorry. This is the first time. Secondly, I have a map in my hands that defines this population point. Thirdly, this populace was created, I emphasize again, in the '90s. If you'll excuse me, I won't speak very loudly, I'm exhausted. Thank you. So I'm going on. In a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u167	I'm sorry. Well, two minutes, you've been talking for three minutes. You've been mistaken for 10 minutes. Give me two more minutes and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u168	Thank you. I'll be done soon. I just want to tell you that if we don't now solve this positive issue, then the people who live there can still not register, not determine ownership, not inherit. In general, people have material problems associated with their legalization. Another name? I'm telling you that when I was preparing for this, I found a lot of very interesting names. Did you know that 14 villages in Ukraine called “Islets”? Do you know that there is a village in the Chernigiv region of Hortica? Why don't you ask a question to the village of Hortica in the Chernigiv region? Interesting, isn't it? Basically, I brought you all I could. I really hope you realize how important and not very funny this is. I ask you to support the people of the village in their desire to live on legitimate grounds, to be citizens of Ukraine who have the right to own and can manage it and to vote and be able to grow there peacefully. raise your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Have a seat, please. 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Yes, please, Vitenko. For. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u170	In my opinion, if there's a desire and it fits in the legal order, there's nothing really scary about it, if those who live in that territory want to be called their settlement. There's nothing complicated here and there's no need to be politicized sometimes, because we're our own Ukrainians, and sometimes we get to the top of the boards. Horticia. Hortica and Hortica. That's what they want. If it's legislatively agreed, let's be, let's support those people who address us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u171	Please, Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u172	Adam Ivanovich, I pressed the red button, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u173	That's right, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Vodka Hortica is one of the best drinks in our market. I don't know why, but she's not actually being faked. That's why. I think they're falsifying others, yet they don't have enough power to falsify the Hortic, but that's no reason to change the geographical names in the country, especially if settlements with that name already exist. And as I understand from the report, there are at least three of them: Upper Hortica, Lower Hortica and Hortica in the Chernigov region. Therefore, in my view, the same geographical names should not be produced. Language, culture, and history are rich enough to find other words to come up with other names for this populous paragraph. And in this title, to address all the problems faced by the inhabitants, i.e. the formation of their property, and the issuance of passports and everything else, as the rapporteur has said. Therefore, in my view, the bill should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u175	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u176	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, would certainly not want to associate the fate of those people with a suitable enterprise and promote it in the Parliamentary Hall, for this is practically forbidden. But what I'd like to say is that there are arguments on the proposal of a national MP who spoke on the parliamentary stand. And so the faction is practically defined on this point. And I think we should consider those remarks that the chairman made and refrain from supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u177	Dear colleagues. One minute, please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you to express the position of the faction on the grounds of Artemenko, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u179	Artemenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, let's conclude what we're talking about. The question was about assigning a name to a populated item. There was a district council. We started out talking about vodka, who's talking about something else. I am not a supporter of the vodka “Hortica”, but I would like to remind everyone that there are living people, there is a call from the district council, like us, but a lower level that asks to assign this appointment. We start playing anything, in any interest, in politics and so forth. And let's support the opinion of the Zaporozhye District Council and vote for it. The other thing is, if there was something in the name there, bad or there, I don't know, immoral. So I'm asking you to support my fellow MPs, especially the Parisians from other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, we will now vote. But we can support our colleagues and others. Let them make a proposal: make a different name. Is there only one such name? There's an island of Hortica, no, there's still a village on Hortica Island. Why get out of the way, excuse me, people? “The island of Hortica”, or “the village of the island of Hortica”, should be named, if they want a populace, they will call it what they want, but not “the island of Hortica”, which is already on the map. Okay? The discussion is closed, and I am voting on the decision to assign the name to the settlement of the Zaporozhye region of the “Horse Island” region. 2689. [[13:27:01]] For 133 Not accepted. Once again, and I'm thinking, and I'm asking the committee to be profiled, and I'm asking Yuri Artemenko, and the other guards, please let the district council name it. I don't think there's gonna be any problem. But the name, so to speak, is proportional to what's already on our geographical map. By faction, please: Region Party - 1, Block Timoshenko - 89, Our Ukraine - 26, Socialists - 16, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 1. And once again, we didn't take that question off, we're just asking for a different name. And when it's ready, as a committee, we're going to give the council a district, a committee -- we're going to put it on the table. We need to put a whole series of bills into the agenda of the day session. Draft Act amending article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 2216. The author of the bill. Oh, that's us. President of Ukraine's proposal. Please vote. ‘For’. [[13:28:38]] For 301 The bill is included. Let's ask the committee to work on this. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2697, author. Legislative initiative from the Cabinet of Ministers. [[concerning the dismissal and appointment of officials]] Please. on inclusion. [[13:29:16]] For 292 It's on. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine, registration number 2694. The author of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote for inclusion. [[13:29:50]] For-286 And I regret that the committee did not consider it, although the head of the Conciliation Council said that we should adopt this bill. I'd ask the committee if they could make it today or tomorrow, maybe tomorrow or Friday we'll consider this law, because we've created a special communication and information protection service, we need to strengthen it, understandably, legislatively. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land Registration number 2412. The drafters are Gladys, Bebelzenko and others. Please vote. [[13:30:49]] For 297 It's on. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act, Registration No. 256. The drafters are the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. 256. [[13:31:25]] For 334 It's on. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on organs and services for minors and special institutions for minors, 257. The drafters are the Cabinet of Ministers. Please turn it on. The committee recommends the inclusion. And Tomenko asks you to vote. [[13:31:59]] For 353 It's on. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act. [[new editor]] Registration number 2596. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. The committee has already considered, supported. [[13:32:27]] For 292 Copy that. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure transparency of property relations with regard to the media, 2555. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee on Freedom of Speech supports, has already considered. Please enter into the agenda. [[13:33:05]] For 275 Entered. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is introduced by our colleague Lutsky, registration number 2094. [[on the employment of graduates]] The committee supports and has already considered. Please enter into the agenda. [[13:33:39]] For 106 Dear colleagues, the committee has already considered this bill and recommends that we accept it as a basis, but it is not yet included in the agenda. Here is a draft law on the employment of graduates of higher education institutions who were trained on a government basis. You realize that the state is spending money, so it has to make sure that these people who have been trained at the expense of the state budget are employed according to the specialty. Let's put it in the agenda, and then we'll talk more about it. I'm proposing a vote on this bill on its inclusion in the agenda in order to return. Please vote. [[13:35:00]] For 303 We're back, 303. I'm asking about the inclusion in the agenda of the 2094 bill. [[13:35:20]] For 297 It's on. Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, Bill No. 2356. [[on personal pensioners of local importance]] The committee has already considered it. The proposal to accept as a basis. Yes, please vote for inclusion. [[13:36:01]] For 362 It's on. Draft Decision marking the 125th anniversary of the great Ukrainian scientist, public and church figure I.I. Fire, 2642, author of the initiative of the National MP Vitenko, on inclusion. Vote. [[13:36:36]] For 171 Factions: Region Party – 10, Block Timoshenko – 100, “Our Ukraine” 57, Socialists – 3, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 1. Let's see when he's 125 years old. January 14th. It's worth a shot. Although, dear fellows, we will now vote again. I'm probably talking to Vladimir Aleksandrovitch. I don't see his committee. I think it would be absolutely right for us to make decisions about what similar decisions are for the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Supreme Council. Because we're going to always be determined to celebrate it, not to celebrate it, and so on, we're still writing in our resolve that the Cabinet of Ministers will create an organizational committee, a government to ensure that they can be repaired, built. From. Mostly so. That's why. No, that's right, that's right. Dear colleagues! Honorable colleagues! We do. We're going to vote now. I'll give Vitenko my word, you'll get the word. The point is that we make similar decisions almost every day and thus interfere with the activity of another body, let it accept. Please, Vitenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u182	You know, I'm just surprised at the position with regard to the anniversary of John Fire. If we want to show that we are a parliamentary state, if we respect our luminaries and in these certain, you know, commissions that are both between the government and between the President, between the secretariats, we should, as deputies, show our humanity right now. People famous, great people, not honoring them that we didn't respect before, we just don't have the right to do that. It is evident that our voters are telling the truth, both from the letter and from the Supreme Council. Absolutely for the sake of spirituality, for the spiritual part, we don't think about any questions if, in fact, we were protesting by the Ministry of Culture, with which we're working closely, that we can't do that, I wouldn't be proposing this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u183	Yes, who, in order to return to the vote, please make up your mind. [[13:39:28]] For 196 The factions, please. Region Party – 22, Block Timoshenko – 108, “Our Ukraine” – 59, Socialists – 6, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 1. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[about batch registration and control]] Registration number 2198. The author of the Bespali initiative. The committee has already considered and supported. About getting into the daytime. [[13:40:25]] For-56 Not supported. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. Please, Bespam's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! I think we've become a victim of a political misunderstanding here. This bill was introduced into the Supreme Council last year's call, to be accepted as a basis. As such, he has been working closely, taking into account the position of the committee and of the past, and this call made to the Supreme Council of this calling. It really improves the working conditions of the political parties that you've all come here for. I emphasize that the committee supported it unanimously, there was no objection, there was no objection from the Ministry of Justice. I think it was simply because there was no information about the bill, but only a name had been declared, and there was this misunderstanding. I'm asking you to come back and support me, and not make an exception to this bill when we're all involved, and here we have discrimination in the legislative initiative. You don't have to do that, you have to show these examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! Sulkovsky asks for words, we haven't heard from him in three days.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think the New Generation is coming up, Christmas Christ, and I'm thinking about no politics right now, and they did the right thing not to vote. I think today is the most important thing to think about for next year's budget. And the opposition, so-called, expressed themselves, and the main opposition said that it would be better to have a bad budget than no budget if you thought for Ukraine. Yesterday, however, the opposition did not take responsibility for the Ukrainian people for the following year, and it took on the coalition and the majority in Parliament. But then the question arises, and why are the opposition to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people responsible? I think we should stop playing political games and think about the lives of the Ukrainian people. And that's why I think, Adam Ivanovich, that today we need more projects to vote for people than for politics. And the positioners, I don't think they have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u187	He's lucky I met the bill at the time, because I'm saying he wouldn't finish because he probably didn't talk about it, right? Dear colleagues, I've really met the bill, I don't see any shop there. We can support it by including it in the agenda. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[13:43:44]] For-53 Even less. Boris Jakovic, I think you'll find an opportunity to talk to the faction leaders, let them see the bill. I'm sure he'll be supported. No, the committee was watching. But the committee doesn't vote, because the committee has 20 people, but it needs 226 votes. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatization Laws of Ukraine, registration number 2351, author of the initiative is Bondar and Kožemjakin. About getting into the daytime. The committee has already considered and concluded that it can even be accepted as a whole. But we need to get it into the agenda. [[13:44:41]] For 390 Copy that, it's on the order of the day. And the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, registration number 2615. The authors of the Turmanov Initiative, Hara, Volinec. The committee hasn't considered it yet. 2615. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:45:20.]] For 381 381, included in the agenda. Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am not a lobbyist about the development of the car industry, but I don't know whether you consciously missed one bill that stood for the vote. It's 2354. Look, please. That's the first one. And the second. I'm reminding you that we filed an application for a break from our faction and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u189	It'll be another hour, Mikolo Vasilovich. Thank you. Good thing you remembered. As far as the bill is concerned, I've seen it, but there are requests from the authors so far to work on it, so that's what we're going to do. And at this morning's meeting, a colleague of Kravchenko asked to include bill 2640 on amendments and additions to the Supreme Council Order on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers. And there's Anatolia Matviennek alternate to this 2540-1 project. So I'm offering these two 2640 and 2640-1 projects for inclusion in the agenda. Again. I'll explain. Take down the vote. I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, even if we vote one, the other, the third and the tenth will become a machine because it is an alternative. You know what's going on. These are alternative bills, so even if we include one, we will be obliged to consider the rest. So I don't see any of that here, so let's not break it, and when we look at it, it's already our will as we define it. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u190	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! The initiative of the Communist deputy who proposes to include the deputy instead of the Deer Andrews, who was on this committee, cannot be supported because we are in violation of the Rules. There's got to be a fractional proportional division. And since the Ripper was the head of a commission on the quota of a fraction other than the one currently proposed, the issue was also not dealt with in the Regulatory Committee. It is therefore necessary to register a draft regulation in accordance with the Rules and then to consider it in accordance with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u191	Thank you for the reminder of the Rules. But once again, we're not looking at it today. We're putting it in the agenda and the bill, and your colleague's bill, Anatoly Matvienka, because it's an alternative. And when the committee looks at it, it'll give us a conclusion: right, they're wrongly proposing -- whether they can or can't, then we'll look at it with you. We're not looking at it today. Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to give you information for help. The national deputy Alexander Doub, who proposed to a member of the committee called the Light Commission, wrote an application for the withdrawal of his candidacy. Thus, the nomination of the people's representative of Alexandrovsk to form this commission follows the quota of the Communist faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, we don't discuss matters. We only vote for inclusion in the agenda. When we include the Rules of Procedure, when the Rules of Procedure come to a conclusion as to whether everything is in accordance with the rules of the Rules, the 80th, the 82nd, if I'm not mistaken, then we'll be in the session room and voting. I'm voting on the inclusion of 2640 colleagues Kravchenk and 2640-1 colleagues in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:50:04]] For 244 But using what is here is a colleague of Lazko, who is an active member of the Rules Committee. I'm making him an offer. Please give us an explanation: Should we include such decisions in general, or should we automatically consider them?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u194	No plug-ins.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u195	Not even included. So why are you arguing?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u196	So why are you arguing? Yes, well-respected colleagues, respected colleagues, and we had an agreement that they would behave well. They're not going to call a break to implement our plans today, but we're going to end up giving three minutes for the statement, please, this is the faction "Our Ukraine" and "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko". Who will act? A miner, please. Kenzier? Kenzier, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u197	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, you have been able and able to observe today through the media how Ukraine is subjected to repeated insolent violence against the Constitution, against Ukraine's legislation. Today, representatives of the ruling majority of the 15th, 20th National Deputies have blocked the entrance to the premises where the meetings of the Government are held and have prevented the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Boris Tarasyuk, from participating in the meeting of the Government. This is a repeat of Boris Tarasyuk's refusal to take part in the government meeting. But now the servants of Yanukovich, Azarov, and Tolstouchov have taken the help of their fighters, who have captured the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In these days, the crisis coalition has once again demonstrated a brutal abuse of the Ukrainian Constitution, the laws, and the judicial branch of power. Recall that on December 5, 2006, the Shevchenkov District Court suspended the Supreme Council’s decision to release Boris Tarasyuk from office as Foreign Minister. On the same day, the President of Ukraine issued a decree obliging Tarasyuk to continue to serve as the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, to prevent Boris Tarasyuk from participating in a government meeting, which contained signs of a crime of obstruction of the activity of the public official and failure to execute a court decision. What worries me most is that law enforcement authorities are silent and do not evaluate such actions. For two weeks, however, the Attorney General’s Office had a statement on the crime committed by Azar and Tolstoy when the foreign minister was not allowed by these persons to participate in a government meeting. The spokesman for the Attorney General's Office shows that they're covering for criminals. Today’s incident is a vivid demonstration of Ukraine’s return to the bandit regime, which operates in strong, non - democratic ways. Banditism in power returns to Ukraine. This situation is a continuation of what took place in Mukachev, Suma, Donetsk during the 2004 presidential election. We refer to the faction "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine, to all Ukrainian citizens, to strongly oppose attempts to bring Ukraine back in the days of Bushmism, to turn our state into a zone where Yanukovich will feel full of incense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u198	Yeah, Baldiriev's microphone, one minute. Speak up, the microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u199	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the President's official website and press service, from 18 to 20 December 2006, he is on a government visit to the Republic of Korea. During the President’s visit, there are wives, ministers, deputies, officials. On Wednesday, December 20, today, the President will arrive in Kiev. However, he issued six decrees yesterday, one order. I ask the Attorney-General of Ukraine to verify the information I have provided and to provide answers to the following questions: whether the President of Ukraine has a facsimile, how his use is handled, who has the right to fax fax in lieu of the President, what legal acts provide for the use of the President's facsimile, how the President is aware of the use of his facsimile signature by unknown persons. Is it not contained in the actions of those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-20-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, there is a procedure such as issuing documents. It can be signed and not released for a month. And don't let go of the moon. Or sign it with a back number and so on. But your right to speak, you have the right to. Thank you for your fruitful work. Today we have fulfilled our obligations, those who were in the daytime. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that there will be hearings at 3 p.m. on the situation of young people in Ukraine. [[on support for young families, strengthening social protection for children and young people in 2001-2006]] Let us summarize how we supported it. And today, colleagues work in committees and factions. Good luck. Tomorrow, at 15, I'll be waiting for you at the parliamentary hearing, and tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'll start.
