ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, members of the government, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, November 14, Tuesday. We continue the work of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to take their seats, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:05]] 409 deputies registered. I see one faction hasn't made it into the hall yet, she's doing some consulting, but she's gonna pull herself up. Dear National Deputies, today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have time to speak from factions with statements, suggestions, reports, and so forth. The regulation allows factions, factions, to speak with five - minute information. So let us take this into account and please sign up for the factions in order to take advantage of this possibility. It's a recording. Under "Our Ukraine" is Zjevonov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich. Please. Who, who? Kubida Vasil Stepanovich, please. You can use 5 minutes, you can use it shorter. How convenient for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u2	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has set a new precedent in the history of modern Ukrainian politics, making a decision on November 3 on the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. The unanimous support of such a decision by anti-crisis activists not only deepened the opposition of the political forces in parliament but also added to the tension between the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The faction "Our Ukraine" sees the actions of the anti-crisis coalition as aimed at discrediting the ministers appointed to the government after the submission of the President of Ukraine as a purpose for their political persecution and a course for reviewing the internal and external political direction of the state. The decision to report ministers is nothing more than a political provocation aimed at usurping power in Ukraine as an attack on the presidency. Moreover, the Constitution of Ukraine clearly does not regulate the use of the political responsibility of ministers appointed by the President of Ukraine. Without a decision by the Constitutional Court on this issue, the legitimacy of any action by Parliament raises serious doubts. We also have questions about antichrists. What should ministers report today if there are no government programs? It is likely that the coalition is living with illusions that ministers in government should run election programs of a party of regions and communists, some of whose positions are not only devoid of common sense, but also openly anti-government and anti-constitutional. We claim that Ukrainian Foreign Minister Boris Tarasyuk and Ukrainian Defence Minister Anatoly Grizenko are highly qualified professionals and are professionally implementing the foreign policy course defined by the Head of State under the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation. Their actions are aimed at protecting Ukraine’s national interests, as opposed to the actions of some other government officials who trade in the interests of the State. In a short period of time, Ukraine’s foreign minister and defence minister, Ukrainian citizens, have found that much can be done to strengthen the state, raise its image in the international arena, if it is guided by Ukraine’s national interests and the welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the faction “Our Ukraine” calls for the cessation of the political execution of ministers working in the government for the submission of the President of Ukraine, and stresses that such actions are an encroachment on the constitutional powers of the head of state and then a violation of the Basic Law of Ukraine. To be completed. The faction prepared the submission to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a request for clarification on the mechanism for the release of Ukrainian foreign ministers and the Ukrainian Defence Minister, the ministers appointed to the government by the Supreme Council for submission of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u3	Thank you. The word from the faction of the Party of the Regions is Richter Raisa Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! The convincing 100 days of the coalition government of Yanukovich have brought us back to the beginning of national stability. The open dialogue of the coalition with the public society really creates an interest and confidence in the first constitutional political alliance different from ideology, but shared by views of national interest, political power in parliament. The pragmatic, profitable, and consistent actions of Cabinet Januković, especially in the depressed number of previous amateurs in the economic realm, give the opportunity to understand and group Ukrainians around the government. Without yesterday's indignation and social-populism, we put the slogan “We work for Ukraine together!” For the first time in the political history of Ukraine, the openness of politics becomes or is not the most important regulator of national conflicts, a test of the quality of young democracy. For the sake of state stability, we have long fought for a broad coalition with the participation of “Our Ukraine”. The latter meeting refused to allow the absolute majority of its electorate to have such stability and to move on to a dialogue about the values that unite us. He also refused to the President by artificially pushing him into a shaky political crisis swamp. Yushchenko, as the honorary head of the NSO, will now be forced to do all he can to avoid opposition as a minimum, to half the citizens of his country. The President needs to know immediately whether he can be in opposition to political power, the main element of which he is himself. Otherwise, it is suspected that he will automatically impose a veto on laws that his party does not vote for. Is it enough to build this primitive Trojan horse in a Ukrainian house? Our nationality, dear friends, stands still as a small child on weak legs of the foundation. Once again, the shadow of the black council rose above our natural freedom of the Ukrainian state. The decision of the President of Ukraine to demand the lifting of constitutional reform may have to be commented on by the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice, because it is constitutionally a call for a change in the constitutional system in Ukraine, a right that belongs exclusively to the people and cannot be usurped by anyone, even an elite group like the NSO. I would like to remind you that the President and all of you, on December 8, 2004, gave a guarantee of the inviolability approved by the vote on this day, a compromise. Don't be a hive with bees if you don't know how to be a brother. You take responsibility not only for social and political stability and civil peace. Because such abuse of the Constitution only strengthens legal nihilism, turns Ukrainians into hostages, political hoops for capriciouss and ambitions of political failures and people infected by power. You have repeatedly intimidated not only the outside but also the inner investors. Tell me, dear friends, who will invest money in the country, even if it is an ideal patriot, when it changes the constitutional system every year, when the people, for the sake of their own selfish ambitions, are forced to sit on top of the people every day. I propose, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, that we urgently adopt the Supreme Council resolution on the decision of the NSO political party. Society needs to hear the responsible political position of its representative body. Dear colleagues, democracy gives us a chance to have any view, but it's only for the sake of the progress of freedom and the promotion of national interest. Democracy is a responsibility, and without it we are trapped in anarchy, which some modern pseudo-democrats are pushing into sick, constant politicalization of society. The Coalition declared its political responsibility. We are ready to extend it at the request of the Ukrainian people. It's time to take her on, the responsibility, and the opposition. Reliable and soundless. You need a law, you need a change to the Rules. We're ready. But on the basis of European real traditions. I propose that Alexander Alexandrovich hold a separate Conciliation Council with the participation of the President and the Secretary of the RNB, on which to work out a legislative plan to ensure the activities of the political opposition. And stop speculation and the nation's harmful populism. And the last. The coalition and government are ready for a dialogue on non-admissible price increases in the area of municipal payments and the creation of clear social guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. I propose to hold inter-committee hearings on this subject next week with the participation of the Ministry of Profiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u5	Give me 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u6	With a joint decision. Dear colleagues, cynical and rigid globalism competition requires that we combine our collective efforts to build a strong country -- Ukraine, which is ultimately the national idea itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given by Deputy Kravchenko of the Communist faction. Please. Behind him is the Scybinetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u8	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. On 20 October this year, I registered a bill on the introduction of some amendments to the Capital Act and some other laws. The substance of the bill is the following. What is happening today in Kiev is forcing the power of the Kiev City Administration and the Mayor of the city to be divided. What is happening today in Kiev? Kiev is now in the hands of people with a wet reputation. To date, Kiev has been using orange power to achieve its objectives. A few examples are sufficient. The first one. On 3.5 occasions, tariffs on housing and utility services were raised illegally for Kievers without sufficient grounds. This has been done solely to show the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers at the top of the cabinet, primarily to injure the authorities against the anti-crisis coalition of the people of Kiev. Megapolis came into the hands of people who are incompetent today who are unable even to turn on the heat they have. Even using those heat plants that worked before them. To date, this sabotage continues in Kiev. Kiev is fully occupied today, the Kiev authorities are now engaged in raids. You know that today both markets and houses of culture and zoos, dental clinics, hospitals today take over as deputy mayors of the city of Kiev, who carry with them specially created brigades of so-called, vetting. Therefore, the bill clearly shares these functions and I would like to ask, Sir Alexander Aleksevic, because this is too serious a matter, I would like to ask the next Conciliation Board, if necessary, to invite me, to put the substance of the bill, to discuss it and thus to address the issue of the inclusion of the bill on the agenda. I definitely want to tell the people's deputies and address them. Regardless of our political orientation today, we must understand clearly, in the hands of incompetent people, in the hands of people who do not imagine what they are doing, megapolis with 4 million inhabitants. And don't forget that we have the Kiev Sea behind us today, and we don't know how they're going to behave and whether they're going to lead us to a technological catastrophe. Therefore, for the second time, I appeal to you, Alexander Alexandrovic, please put this issue on the agenda of the meeting of the Conciliation Council and submit Bill 2403 to the agenda of the session of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u9	The word is given by Scybinecki, Turkinov, Valentin Alexandrovich, followed by Mendus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last week, the counter counted 100 days for the work of the government of Yanuković. The officials responded to themselves and remained very contented with themselves. At the same time, I wanted to be able to actually analyze the government's work, compare its work with that of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who worked for only 200 days. So comparisons will be very appropriate. First, the government of Yulia Timoshenko maintained stable prices for utility services, while the government of Viktor Yanukovitch raised prices for utilities three or four times in different regions of the country. Timoshenko’s government kept a constant price of $50 per thousand cubic metres for gas. At the same time, Januković’s government has reached a price of over $130, talking about it as a huge victory. Next. Yulia Timoshenko’s government increased the child’s birth rate to 8,500, or 12 times. The current government has suggested that the actual cancellation of assistance to newborns be made more difficult to obtain. Next. Yulia’s government, Timoshenko, removed the shaded free economic zones, where the clans paid no taxes. The current government envisages in the budget next year to restore the clan's free economic zones, to make for its own financial and industrial groups an income-generating scheme at the expense of other Ukrainian citizens. Next. The government of Timoshenko reduced Ukraine’s government debt by more than 7 billion dollars. Januković’s government budget for 2007 predicted an increase of 8 billion dollars in government debt. Next. Yulia’s government, Timoshenko, raised the minimum wage by 40 percent. The government planned to increase the minimum wage by only 5 percent in the second half of 2007. The government of Ulysses Volodymyrna increased the average monthly pension by 75 percent from 194 dollars to 323 dollars. The current government proposed that the pension be increased by only 5.8 percent next year. That is, raise wages and raise pensions that are actually frozen by the current government will be a few times less than the inflation that the Yanukovic government has unleashed. Next. The government of Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko increased the military’s financial support by 3.5 times. The current government has been proposing to eliminate all benefits for military personnel since 2007. The meat crisis in Tymoshenko is the price of meat from 18 to 20 bracelets per kilogram. The meat well-being of Yanukovich is the price of meat between 35 and 40 g. For a pound. Next. The gas crisis in Tymoshenko is $3. For a liter of gas. The Yanukovich gas affair is €4.6. For a liter and only under the influence of the world’s oil prices, the price fell to $3.6, which was still much higher than in the days of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Next. The sugar crisis is more Tymoshenko. Despite the activities of the sugar mafia, this is a price cut from five bracelets to three bracelets per kilogram. Sugar welfare at Yanukovic is the price of sugar 5 bracelets. That is, the full pleasure of sugar speculators. Next. Timoshenko’s government maintained the absence of a tax on added value for agricultural entrepreneurs. The current government proposes to introduce a tax on added value for agricultural enterprises since January 1, 2007. Next. Timoshenko’s government has expanded the benefits for war veterans. The government has decided not to comply with the law on children of war in 2007. The government of Yulia Volodymyrovny returned illegally privatized property to government property, giving first examples of transparent privatization. During this government’s reign, a cynical redistribution of property is carried out through the gang’s capture of businesses, the killing of rapists, politicians, and businessmen. I could give many more examples, which are fully illustrated by specific figures. I would like to say that the only way out for Ukraine is to resign the government that offers a country of humiliation and banditry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u11	The word comes from the faction of socialists, Jaroslav Mendus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! The flights carried out by the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of Socialists in the Supreme Council consider it an obligation to evaluate certain arguments when adopting resolutions and other documents of the last “Our Ukraine” meeting. We come from the fact that making decisions about the opposition of the party is the party's business. True, such a decision is contrary to the interests of society, because given that it belongs to "Our Ukraine" most of the heads of local administrations -- it creates an absurd situation in the executive branch of power, it breaks it apart. The twofold role is played by the President of Ukraine. After all, the appointed executives under the Constitution are subject to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the party’s decisions oblige them to oppose him. Understanding the harmfulness of such developments, the leaders of “Our Ukraine ” are, on the other hand, vindicating their position for deliberate reasons. Again, false arguments regarding the refusal of the anti-crisis coalition and the government from the Doctrine of the Universal National Unity are raised. The use of false ideas about refusal of European choice, social guarantees and positions claimed during the 2004 presidential campaign and those that have never been heard there continues. What is the real motive for such a “Our Ukrainians” line? Whatever these motives are, they're transparent. It's the desire for rematch, the desire of one or two tens to regain the importance of influence that many of them possessed during the presidency of Kuchma and, in fact, a year ago. To return them now that the presence in power depends on the outcome of the elections to the Supreme Council and the need to take responsibility for the consequences of the actions of the authorities. They need power as such when it can be exercised, using the President’s political and other obligations to the political bloc. This is the root of the debate that “Our Ukraine” imposes on society about the quality of political reform. Thus, speculation about the imperfections of reform, which seems to prevent the building of a stable relationship between the branches of government. This is a concerted reason to appeal to the Constitutional Court to press it to reverse the vote for amendments to the Constitution, which was carried out on December 8, 2004. The vote unanimously supported by future President Viktor Yushchenko and our Ukraine faction. And the decision to do so was long before the tensions caused by Midan’s actions. We want to look to the leadership of “Our Ukraine” and the next. First. If you wish to do a polytreform audit to restore the right to form a single cabinet of ministers and other important authoritarianism, talk about it openly, and do not cover yourself with the myths of the imperfections of the Constitution and other flaws of government. The other one. To remove obstacles to the effective functioning of power, add your votes to the continuation of the polytreform at the local level as you promised the voters in 2004 and 2006. Without filling local self - government with the real meaning of the declaration of European choice, it is an open demagogue. Third. The door to the governing coalition remains open to all and to representatives of “Our Ukraine” also who are responsible for Ukraine’s fate. We rightly claim that there is enough power in society to prevent adventures in the form of revisions to the Constitution. We should not put forth effort to organize such adventures and wickedness as to their need. It is not necessary to discredit the President of Ukraine, whose name is associated with “Our Ukraine”, because the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution by definition cannot be its ruinator. Ukraine was on the path of democracy in times of distress. There are still obstacles on this road, but it will not turn from this path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Deputies! Since the speakers have addressed me, and then some have made such an indication of the Constitution, I would like to say that the Constitution provides for the expression of mistrust to virtually all the officials listed there, mentioned there, so this should be borne in mind, and there is a perfectly clear legal clarity. And I'd like to confirm some of the speakers' statements that the polytreform needs to be continued. The Constitution will be stable and secure from any violation. The Opposition Act, described by Larissa Vasilovna, is included in the agenda of the next sessional week. I hope that he will be considered and accepted. Regarding the Kiev Law, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko proposed that this law be considered. Prepare it as you wish. But it should be borne in mind that the city’s head, Kiev, and city council deputies were chosen by the Chinese. Obviously, they wanted such results, and this should also be meant to respect the will of the electorate. I'm not going to comment on any statement by Alexander Valentinovich to the Turk, because it's going to look like contradictions or conflicting information about what he said. Just one question: Of course, the government of Julia Timoshenko, as he says, worked brilliantly, inexplicably, why was he retired? There was not a faction of the “Regions” or the Coalition of the Anti-Crist, but, nevertheless, this has happened. It's only been 200 days. And for the sake of clarity. Gas prices up 04.01. January 06, six months before the formation of a coalition and the formation of a government. And the increase in social benefits, especially for children, was done at the initiative of the President, and that's what should be taken into account. That's why I don't say other things. And I'd like someone, Alexander Valentine's Day, to buy when it's announced, at a time when they've announced the price of 14 or 17 bracelets of meat, I'd like someone to buy this meat at such a price. [[Yeah, take the line now.]] You know, at the time, it was the price of 40 or 50 dollars per kilogram of meat. Please take the word. Give the Turk a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u14	Dear colleagues and the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Frost! I would still ask you not to comment on the speech or to take my statement from the faction of yours and to speak. And I've listed only the figures that illustrate what Julia Timoshenko did, these are just unattainable boundaries for the government of Yanukovich, because there's a different goal. Timoshenko's goal was to work for the people who chose her, who supported her. The goal of this government and your anti-crisis coalition is to work on financial and industrial groups that want to control the whole country. And you don't have to twist the facts, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich! That's the first one. The other one. The Party of the Regions voted in favour of the resignation of the government of Yehanurova, who raised the price of gas to $95. At the same time, more than $130 is now the achievement of the Yanukovic government. Where's the logic? Where is your truth? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u15	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for the clarification. Just to remind you that your faction seems to have voted in favour of the resignation of the government of Yechanurov. Please, the day - to - day first question is the minister’s information on the activities of the authorities, local self - government in the area of physical culture and sports, as well as on the affairs of the family, youth, and sports. By Government Day, I give the floor to Yuri Alexiyovich. Let me remind you of the 15 minutes schedule for the report, 45 minutes to answer the question. Questions can be written and oral. And then there'll be a report from, a statement from the committee and you can exchange your thoughts briefly on this. Yuri Alexiyovich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u16	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I understand a particular feature of my being on this stand right now in connection with my resignation application, but I want to remind you that 21 months ago I also stood on this stand on Government Day and reported it 24 hours after my appointment as minister. And then I presented the report and the work plans that were prepared by my predecessor. Today, I stand on this rostrum and report on the development of physical culture and sports, realizing that maybe in 24 hours there will be a decision in this room about my resignation. But beyond that, I'm sure that the actions of power must be systematic, consistent and continuous regardless of who is the minister at this particular moment. So, first of all, let me thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for taking the initiative to host the Government's Day on Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine. The Government's Day, and this is happening in Ukraine for the first time in its history, is a confirmation of the increasing attention of state institutions to the field of physical culture and sport, which is an indication of the need for the development of the sphere in order to raise a healthy nation and form an international image of Ukraine through the growth of sporting achievements. I am sure that the analysis of problems in this area at this high level will allow not only to assess what has been done, but also to determine the direction of further joint action by public authorities and local self-government to create favourable conditions for the realization of the right of every citizen to exercise physical culture and sports. Now, each of you has given out some of the study aids, so given the time limits of the rules, I want to stop at specific priorities and questions. The most important thing that has been done in recent years is to reverse the pyramid of state policy on physical culture and sports, when a few years ago we heard almost every day that a sports object is closing up, today almost every day in a certain area of Ukraine where a new sports object is opening up. Therefore, I would like to thank all the public authorities, officials, private individuals who have made and contributed to the matter. First of all, the Supreme Council has already ratified the International Convention to Combat Doping in Sports. It's very important for the Supreme Council's practice of not allowing closure, retraining of physical and sports institutions, without Olympic training, physical and physical health and sports facilities. Together with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s profile committee, we are now actively working on a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport. For the first time in national history, the head of state, Victor Yushchenko, President of Ukraine, formed and chaired the National Council on Physical Culture and Sports. I am confident that the Council's work will contribute to the successful implementation of the country's policy in this area and by supporting this, according to the first meeting of the National Council of August 2, 2006, the President of Ukraine signed a decree on a national plan of action for the implementation of the State-of-the-state policy in the field of physical culture and sport. In the last two years, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued 14 legal acts on physical culture and sports. In addition, the National Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport in Ukraine for 2007-2011 was already approved at a meeting of the Government Committee on Humanities and Social Policy. At the forthcoming meeting of the Government, this project, taking into account your suggestions made during this Government Day, will be approved definitively. The effectiveness of the organization committee's work in preparing for the participation of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympics, the Paralympic Games, the world's play of the deaf, the world's universities in 2003-2006 under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, was confirmed by the success of Ukrainian athletes in Athens at the Olympics and in Turin at the Winter Olympics, at the World Games and at the Paralympic Games. The government of Ukraine has given the necessary guarantees to participate in the second stage of the tender for the right to hold the final part of the European Football Championship in 2012, together with the Polish Republic. The final decision on this issue will be taken by UEFA in April of the following year. The Cabinet of Ministers plans to submit a draft Euro-2012 bill to Parliament by the end of this month. I'm sure it's our country that will accept these competitions and that's just the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u17	Yuri Alexiyovich, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Report to the minister on the question you have included in the agenda. At least turn your face to him and respect your colleague. Please. Please don't make any noise, calm down, calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u18	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. And I believe the Euro-2012 will happen right in our country. Today there are calls and proposals for a winter Olympic in Ukraine, starting in 2018. And in keeping with the current pace of sphere development and changes and additions to it, it's actually a reality. Thanks to the cooperation of central and local executives, local self - government agencies with public organizations have shown some positive trends. I would like to point out that for the first time in all regions of Ukraine, regional administrative colleges were held to implement the decisions of the National Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, which approved physical culture and sport programmes for the period up to 2011, as well as regional programmes for the reconstruction, repair and construction of sports facilities. We are now insisting on the approval of appropriate programs across every city and district. The foundations of an effective system of mass sports are: “Sport for everyone’s health”, “Trust in yourself”, “Cozatski gart”, “Skinball”, “Sportakiads of schoolchildren, workers of various fields, veterans, rural games. In 2006 alone, more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens participated in these competitions. Traditions have been preserved and national Olympic sports, priority sports, disability sports, and neolympic sports are developing rapidly. A club system is formed, a network of children's, youth sports schools, Olympic training centres, physical health centres “Sport for All”, centres of physical culture “Inva Sport”. The number and role of social organizations in physical and sporting activities is increasing, including the National Olympic Committee, the National Committee on Disabled Sports, the Sports Committee, the Physical and Sporting Society “Dynamo”, “Cola”, “Spartak-Ukraine”. Licensing of physical and health activities in the sports sector has been introduced. Normative and organizational principles have been developed to ensure the fight against drug use in sports. All of these actions by central and local authorities allow for evidence that the state has finally developed a comprehensive approach to physical culture and sports. An approach that allows each state authority to make its own contribution to improving the health of the nation. If we treat this problem not decriminally but practically, we should remember that nearly half, or more specifically, 38 percent of Ukrainian men do not live to their retirement age today in Ukraine because they neglect their health. So it's not just a problem of state policy in the area of physical culture and sport, it's already a problem of national security policy, it's a problem of humanitarian security. At the same time, honourable national MPs need to be honest and frank about the outstanding problems in the field of physical culture and sports. The worst is the low level of participation of the population in systemic physical and health competitions, which is slightly more than 13 percent in Ukraine. Compared to Finland, that's 52 percent; in European countries, that's 26 percent, twice as much as in Ukraine today. Inadequate health, motor activity, prevents the formation of a healthy life - style for Ukrainians, on which 60 percent of the population’s health depends. The role of medicine in this regard is not more than 10 percent. We note that the performance of national athletes in international competitions is characterized by some stability. However, the potential of coaches and potential Ukrainian athletes is much higher. Anxiety is caused by the effectiveness of preparing a reserve for national teams, and the main deterrent is the lack of resources to ensure the work of children’s sports schools. To help me out, all I'm going to say is that keeping one young lawbreaker in a suitable facility costs the state three times as much today as raising a young athlete in a juvenile sports school. Today, we signed with the Minister of Education and Science a joint order on the situation of the Children's Sports School, which allowed the issue to be settled that had not been resolved for more than five years. Respectable national MPs, addressing complex issues of improving the quality and accessibility of mass sport depend primarily on the material and technical base, personnel, propaganda and finance. For a comprehensive analysis of the situation and study and identification of the forward-looking course of action in April of this year, we have prepared a sports map of Ukraine, which provides information on priority sports, children's sports schools, the level of security of the population by sports facilities, personnel and finance. To assess the performance of the work, a special regional rating has been introduced to create conditions for the development of physical culture and sports. In 2005, I would have put Sumskie, Mikolaiyevsky, Donetsk, Zaporezite region among the leaders. The worst situation in this area remains in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Zitomir region. In order to improve the material and technical security of the sphere, a project, a joint project by the state and local authorities, is already being implemented for the second year -- the setting up of modern sports courses. Last year, 175 new sports playgrounds were built. This is going to create more than 200 for playful and about 400 general physical preparation. Convinced that the consolidation of the efforts of the center and the region should also be used to build other sports facilities. We consider it appropriate that local authorities, when deciding to allocate land to housing, oblige the builders to create accessible objects of mass sport. In order to provide the population with sports halls, playgrounds, and swimming pools, the Ministry has today developed appropriate social standards that take into account the optimal range of motor activity of people of all ages and their needs for types of activity. This decision must be made, and these standards must be approved by the relevant law on physical culture and sports. At the level of basic personnel: instructors, trainers, teachers, teachers of physical education in Ukraine today are more than twice as likely for the leading countries. The worst situation is the number of physical culture instructors who provide physical and health services directly. In recent times, there have been slight positive changes, but this rate is 40 percent lower today than the 290s of last century. One instructor of physical culture today belongs to more than 12 rural councils. The area of physical culture and sports is not the only one where there is no system for improving the qualifications of personnel. And during independence, no funds were allocated from the state budget for these purposes. There is a decline in the prestige of the work in this area due to job failures and a low level of social security. Comparing the size of the average monthly cash payments to the coaches of the regular assembly teams with our closest neighbors, for example, Russia and Belarus, suggests that the work of our experts is estimated in three times less than in these countries. This is also true of the payments made to the sportsmen of the established assembly teams. Respectful national deputies, with regard to the overall state of funding for physical culture and sports, have increased spending on all levels by 3.5 or 630 million dollars over the past five years. However, funding for this area is now insufficient. For one Ukrainian citizen, a csi source was allocated over the past year to 26 pennies of 45 copies, which are twice as low as in the Russian Federation, or 15 times less than the corresponding funds are being allocated today in European countries. The 2007 State Budget Bill provides expenditure from the general budget for physical culture and sports programmes for 315 million dollars on Olympic preparation, 23.8 million dollars, according to the calculations that were made in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u19	Let me finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u20	That's equal to 23, if we're talking about Olympic training bases and 49 percent of the required amount. So there can be no such trend, and I would ask here for the support of the Supreme Council, so that our athletes will perform with dignity at the next Olympic Games in Beijing. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, we realize that investment and sponsorship should be involved. But the state does not have a system of preferences for non-budgetary financing of the sphere today, as well as for lotteries and producers of alcohol and tobacco. Today, they are not directing part of their income to finance mass sports programs as an important compensation for the negative health effects of the product. So far, unfortunately, Ukraine's Support for Olympic and Paralympic Sports Act has been blocked, which foresees that taxpayers up to 20 percent of the income tax can count into special accounts “Olympic Ukraine” and “Olympic Ukraine”, many solutions, ways to solve many of the problems that have been called in my short report today, provided for by the relevant State Programme for Physical Culture and Sports for 2007-2011. I am convinced that the decision that will be taken here, in this room, on the basis of government day, will be another step to strengthen the sphere of physical culture and sport, and let me thank once again the Supreme Council's committee for initiating today's Government Day, you people's deputies, for paying attention to the field of physical culture and sport, because each of us must remember that without a developed system of this sphere, it is impossible to talk about a healthy nation and only when the President visits another country and wins an athlete, the flag rises and sounds like the anthem of our country. I thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u21	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Please ask the reporter what is there? Sign up for questions. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, and then on the letter you give the answers, you have there, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u22	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Mr. Yuri. I would really like to show you respect as a minister and as a young person who has exercised professionalism in this position and gained proper authority. And I’m really sorry that something else can happen because your name is linked to the development of sports, including youth policy. But I have a question for you next time. Please tell me how to set up some kind of support fund for really names. For example, Darina Tkachenko became the world’s champion in international chess. A man who doesn't have a corner, a coach doesn't have a corner. How to develop support, at least one-room apartments, which fund could be created and how you see the way this and that kind of problems are being implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u23	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, for your question and support for the modest work that the Ministry of Ukraine is doing today in family, youth and sports. Indeed, this issue is extremely important, and we have initiated that the issue of support for athletes, especially the highest level, who have achieved the highest results and have brought glory to our country, be considered in the college of every district government, and on each such occasion a proper decision has been made by the local authorities, as their competence is to solve housing problems. In addition, we are looking today at the possibility of creating, for example, an Olympic village in Kiev, where adequate housing can be provided to provide accommodation exclusively for athletes and high-level coaches. In addition, through the State Youth Fund, we have adopted an appropriate change to the position on the Fund's activities, which has given priority to obtaining housing for young people's premiums for athletes who have reached the highest level. But again, I'll tell you, it happens almost daily.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u24	Yuri Alexiovich, yes. In answer, you'll say, meaning, I think Anatoly Sergiyovich meant the same thing. Those who have gained authority throughout the world have brought glory to Ukraine, should be marked as both a place for training and life forever because they have earned it. Please ask a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u25	Questions from the Committee of the Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism: “Give information on compliance with the requirements of legislation regarding the prohibition of retraining, the elimination of active sports facilities, in particular in relation to objects such as velotrek, Ice Stadium, the “Olympic” NSC in Kiev”. Thank you for asking. The only thing I'm going to say is that there's a particular situation in Kiev and, in particular, in the questions that were raised by Anatoly Sergiyovich in connection with Daria Tkachenko. I hope that the tradition of the Kyiv City Council giving apartments to the winners of the Olympic Games and the champions of the world will be preserved in the future. And here, Darius Tuckenko will be no exception. With regard to these objects, they still have a very serious discussion, which was a separate point of consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council Committee. So in terms of bicycles, he's a collective property object, he's in the board of trade unions, he's not working today, he's in the initial stage of reconstruction. The question under consideration says that the Velvetrek in Ukraine is likely to be preserved and on a high level. The Central Training Base, Ice Stadium, according to the Presidential Decree on the National Plan of Action for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports, is scheduled to create an Olympic settlement at the Ice Stadium in Kiev with an appropriate ice palace.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u26	Romaniuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u27	If you'll excuse me, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u28	It's a hunchback.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u29	Dear Yuri Alexiovich! You tell me, there's a rule in sports: without the development of physical culture, mass, you don't have to talk about sports of great achievement. We remember 2004, remember how the Yanukovich government helped the Olympics win medals, and these results were much better than the previous Olympics. To develop sports, we need to take better than other states — namely, in Belarus at every district center covered stadiums, ice palaces, schools of the Olympic reserve. We don't have anyone working in these directions today. A future sport without schools of the Olympic Reserve is virtually impossible. Tell me, how many of these schools are we going to have in the future, how many are there? And we have to end the practice of transferring sports objects to other structures, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u30	I thank you for asking. Indeed, this is a very urgent matter. Sadly, that moment that he gave me will not allow me to answer him fully. But we will make sure that we provide this information in writing. By the way, it's in analytics about children's, young sports schools. Indeed, it has been a very long time, almost five years, the unresolved issue of the status of a children’s, youthful sports school. Today, the Ministry of Education and Science and I have found a compromise decision and the right position has been approved. We are initiating today in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, before the Supreme Council a special budget programme to support and modify the material and technical base of children's, youth sports schools, as the inventory of almost 1,800 children's, youth sports schools that exist in Ukraine has shown that 80 percent is obsolete. The same concern today is the financing of reserve sports. But indeed, the first steps in 2004 that were taken by the government gave a positive result right away at the Olympics and continued at the Turin Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u31	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u32	It's a written question. The Committee on Budget Affairs, the Social Policy of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, is very much concerned with the development of State programmes for the development of physical culture and sports, as well as their financial support. This is actually a continuation of the previous question. I'm going to say that in 1998-2005, the actions of the Physical Health Target Program were being implemented. Physical education, the health of the nation.” It was budgeted at all levels during the period 1998-2005 for 2.7 billion dollars, including over 1.1 billion dollars from the State Budget. The program was completed by almost 80 percent. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers has a project of the State Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 7-11 years. The appropriate funding for this year, I said, but once again, it's from the necessary needs if, in preparation for the Olympic and National Teams, it's 49 percent, for Olympic bases, it's 23 percent of what we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u33	Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Please pass the word to a colleague of Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u35	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Minister! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Today, there is no doubt that the State’s field of physical and sports is balanced. And at the level of the territorial community, it's completely destroyed. Today we see that in fact sports schools on the ground survive at the expense of parental pay, and tens of thousands of children do not have the capacity to systematically engage in physical and sports activities simply because they have nothing to pay for these activities. You, I never heard in your report what is the main source of the solution to this problem. For me, it's not funding today, it's budget today, it's priorities in both your department and your department. Physical culture and sports have not become a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u37	Vasil Stepanovich, even considering your athletic qualifications, needs to be asked in one minute, questions. Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I am not a supporter of the creation of a State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports, as it will be, at least, a downgrading of the status of sport, because the State Committee by its status is much lower. The State Committee, as a separate organ of central executive power, has been established repeatedly in Ukraine. And you said yourself that there was a balance in the field. In the last two years, when there was a ministry, there had been a lot of problems that could not be solved during the committee's activities, because the ministry was a higher status, and the sport was raised to the higher level of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is why it has enabled today to make a single vertical and make appropriate decisions, to approve regional programmes for the first time in Ukraine's history, from the centre, from the decision of the President of Ukraine, to the corresponding regional programs of each region, where the priorities are defined, where a plan for supporting children's, youth sports schools, where the plan is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u39	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u40	Honorable Yuri Alexiyovich, sport is one of the few sectors that unites the nation, and all Ukrainians, regardless of their place of residence, have equally suffered for our football team and for Klick. Could you share the experience of uniting Ukrainians in other ways — both in the WTO and in foreign politics and so forth? And the second question is still about the fate of some sports. How do we make sure that our football teams aren't so Afro-Brazilian assemblage, but have a Ukrainian face? And what do your successors have to do to save hockey in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u41	Thank you. You asked three questions at once, so maybe three minutes to answer or not, or one minute? Very short. It is sport and physical culture that should make us forget about the political battalions, and focus on how to make the field as successful as possible because it truly unites every Ukrainian today. As for football, it was two years ago that the Football Federation decided to limit the number of foreign players while they were in the field, at a football match, today it's limited to eight players. It has also been decided that this quota will continue to decline, but there is a position of individual clubs that do not support the reduction of foreign players, as this is motivated by their necessary successes in the international arena, particularly in the league of champions and other European competitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u42	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u43	Yes, so in this data, the Ministry is a proponent of a clear approval of the minimum of Ukrainian players at 50% in each Ukrainian club. But this, of course, is now in charge of the final decision of the Football Federation, the professional football league, and at the level of the discussion that is taking place today between the club teams. Each team today is a professional private team, and the influence on the activities of club teams of the state today is limited enough and is within the defined law. As far as hockey is concerned, it is one of the most important and priority sports. Indeed, the fact that no ice cat has been built in Ukraine in more than 13 years has seriously affected the development of hockey in Ukraine. Although the hockey team is a national team, it is part of a dozen of the world’s best teams. An appropriate hockey program is being prepared today in Ukraine. The process and planning and the construction of ice sites in Ukraine are now under way. I think this process is uninterrupted and in a while we will be happy to go to hockey games again, as well as many young, young children who love this kind of sport will be able to attend quality, full-fledged youth sports schools, which unfortunately today I can only name two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u44	I ask MPs not to ask rhetorical questions. To make a football face, it takes a lot of makeup and powder. You understand. Therefore, a written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u45	Next question is asked by the Family Committee, youth policy, sports, and tourism. In line with the legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers should provide for a special chapter on physical culture and sports in Ukraine’s economic and social development programme. There is such a chapter. I'm really going to answer this question here, and I'm asking you not to fully support the 2007 Economic and Social Development Programme of the Supreme Council, because for the first time in this program there's not just a separate chapter on the main issues of physical culture and sport, but for the first time in this program there are 14 criteria for the development of a socio-economic country next year. It's also the number of gyms, the number of children's and youth's sports schools, their condition, their training. This decision, I'm sure, will affect the greater involvement of all authorities from the central to the lowest local authorities in the development of physical culture and sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u46	Pussy. I ask the MPs not to worry, it's not here being shot, it's a salute on the occasion of the arrival of the President of another country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u47	Yuri Alexiyovich, I want to join you in thanking you for your work. I know that many very good things in the development of mass sports have been done under your authority by the Ministry. And I know how much you've been personally involved in the issues that are being discussed today and which, including, have a lot of problems. I'd like to ask you again, maybe, because football is not just a sport, it's millions of people who are hurting today for this kind of sport, dissatisfied with the state of affairs that is today in the football industry of Ukraine, and what exactly needs to be done to make things right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I cannot agree with you that there is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs in football in Ukraine. It's one of those kinds of sports, one of those federations that work very dynamically and fully to develop their kind of sport. In particular, there are appropriate programs in schools. There's a program that was just launched by the Football Federation to build football courses. And since 2004, about 600 such venues in Ukraine have been built at the expense of the Federation of Football and Assistance of the European Federation and the World Federation. There is a ball support program, a form. Children’s youth sports schools from football are developing very dynamically and are being adequately supported by non - state schools, namely the Ukrainian Football Federation. But of course there are a lot of tasks that we have to decide that Ukrainian teams should be made up of the vast majority of Ukrainian players.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u49	Thank you. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u50	Next question is the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government. Is it set up by executive authorities and local self-government to pay municipal taxes on energy supplies for physical health and sports facilities in 2006? Do they have financial support to compensate for the expenses? According to the monitoring carried out by the Ministry, the activities of the executive authorities at the sites of support for the functioning of physical health and sports institutions were discussed at meetings of all district government colleges. And indeed, local authorities have not always implemented this decision. Therefore, we propose to further address this issue in a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be adopted on the basis of our Government Day today, to recommend to local government bodies the establishment of physical culture and sports facilities. The tariffs on utilities and energy are at the level approved for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u51	Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u52	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Jury, do you feel that, with your understanding of the problems that the Ministry is going to face, you as a minister, you do not fit in with your mentality with this so-called anti-crisis government, because you are tasking yourself with raising a national conscious youth who is no doubt using Ukrainian. The antichrist, the antichrist government, professes other ideals, to speak as much Ukrainian as Mr. Azarov. With regard to the physical training of Ukrainian youths, I think this government and prime minister are more in need of british brothers in leather jackets and so forth. That is, will you be able to carry out your duties fully and to realize your understanding of the upbringing of young people in an independent Ukrainian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. I wouldn't comment on any of your speeches, but I would very much like to ask you, Mr. Kendzer, because you and I are representatives of a political party, not to politicize the physical culture and sports. Because when a Ukrainian athlete wins, the anthem of Ukraine, the flag of our state rises, each Ukrainian stands up and together is proud of the success of the Ukrainian athlete. So once again, I want the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the decision on the support and development of physical culture and sport as one, regardless of whether it's the Anti-Crist Coalition, or whether it's the political forces that are in opposition today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u54	Thank you. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u55	Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine How much is allocated from the local budgets for introducing additional physical culture lessons in 2005-2006? I'm going to give you a very brief answer date. The funding of physical culture lessons in 2005-2006 was carried out within the framework of the expenditure foreseen in the local education budgets, taking into account local needs and students' availability. The distribution of funds for teaching, including physical culture, in educational institutions is carried out according to typical curricula. The typical curriculum, physical culture provides for three hours of physical culture in 1-4 classes and two and a half hours in 4-7 classes in eleven years. A third lesson in physical culture per week has already been introduced in more than 90 percent of public education institutions with more than 20,000 existing ones. But I am convinced that, first of all, here today, we need to motivate more teachers of physical culture and sports by raising their wages. Their salary, I think, should be second to the principal of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u57	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u58	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u59	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko First of all, Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the National Writer Association, for the enormous work the Ministry has done along with the association to raise creative young people. Believe me, this has always been done on a high level. The other one. I'd still like to have this opportunity to welcome Ukraine with the victory of the Cliché. It was a great victory. I'm totally supportive that it lifts the spirit of the Ukrainian nation. I have a question for you. What happens after Call? Is there any continuation of this colossal outbreak of these two brothers? The older one came down from the arena, smaller. What awaits the Ukrainian Boxing? And the second question. There's no time. Another time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. As far as the Ukrainian boxing is concerned, it has, has, and will always have, a very high rating in the world and has a very high potential for its development today. Unfortunately, some of the problems that existed in the appropriate federation have had a very serious impact on success, especially in the amateur boxing of our athletes, as well as in the moral and psychological state of their trainers. Today, this situation has been resolved. And we see that at the last European and World Championships 2005, especially in 2006, we already have the first gold, silver and bronze prizes of Ukrainian boxers. And this is just a new beginning to the success of the Ukrainian boxing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u61	Vitenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u62	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I want my question not to be taken as rhetorical, or politicized, or political. Please tell me, are there any accidents, or are our Tereshchenkas, Semirenkas, Tretjaks, our wealthy, wealthy people and deputies, including the sacrificial work for the State and for the future healthy generation, investing a considerable amount of money in the development of mass sports, supporting special schools of children's and boys' interns, without binding on local and different levels of budgets to receive in the future material benefits for themselves? And how does this harmonize with legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u63	I thank you for asking. I'll say the main thing is that sports and sports institutions, it's, among other things, a fairly profitable business and it's developing today. At the same time, I will say that today very many objects are being built by private individuals. Or if we think of an Olympic stadium or a modern world level built in the city of Donetsk. The same situation in Dnipropetrovsk, or the most dynamic resort in the Carpathians "Bukovel", which announced yesterday the desire to host the Olympic Games on its base in 2018. It's all private. But most importantly, in the position of those people who invest money today, they realize that it's business, but a very serious component of their work is the social component -- it's support and creation based on these modern children's sports schools and on free or very tax-free conditions, involvement and opportunities for children to engage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u64	Thank you. Helen Anatolyevna, whom did you mean? Oh, right. Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Minister. I liked your answer to one of the athletes from the faction "Our Ukraine" so much that I won't even vote for your resignation when the time comes. And Mr. Sportsman, we'd like to at least calm down by 2011, and his joining the government doesn't light him up, so he can be calm about his language. Now let's ask you a question, Mr. Minister. You compared the budget of Russia, the European Union and Ukraine with the higher costs of developing sport in the budgets of these countries. I don't think this comparison is right. What about last year’s budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u66	As for last year's budget, the increase so far, the increase after the first vote is 7.6 percent from last year's. So I hope that at the stage of preparation and voting in the second reading of the budget, we will take into account those proposals that have been made both by the Ministry, and first of all, we will take into account those proposals made by many national MPs that have talked about the need to increase the individual programs for developing physical culture and sports expenditure from the central budget. I know that there are possibilities in the State Budget. And it's very good that today's Government Day is going on between the first and second readings of the budget, the state budget for next year, and the decree that will be adopted will have an impact on the financial support of this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u67	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u68	It's a written question. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy: “How many places for physical and health work in residential areas, cultural parks and recreation were allocated to physical and sports establishments in 2005-2006 in the areas of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol?” This is really the most important question, the basic question. Because the task set by the Ministry is to make it possible for anyone who wants to be able to engage in physical culture and sports and to have sufficient sports facilities. Unfortunately, the situation in Ukraine today looks like this, and this has been demonstrated on the sports map of Ukraine, which, for example, is provided by the sports halls of Ukraine 30 percent of the needs and social standards that we have developed; 35 percent of Ukraine is provided with sports courses. And here I just want to point out that 80 percent of sports courses were built more than 15 years ago. The most difficult situation with pools. The security of our citizens’ needs today is 5 percent of what we need. That's why we're proposing to approve the legislative social norms for calculating the number of square meters of halls, sports courses in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u69	Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u70	Stepan Davimuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Yuri! I'd like to draw your attention to the intellectual sport of chess. I'm president of the Lviv chess federation. And you know that the Lviv chess school has world fame. We have 33 international grandmasters. Our young men have recently become champions of the Olympics. Our young master Yuri Kriworuko became the bronze champion of the World Cup. Virtually all age categories of schoolchildren are champions of Ukraine. But we have virtually no support from the Ministry. And I have a question: how does the minister and the ministry think about taking these credits and supporting them?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u71	Thank you, thank you for asking. Indeed, more than 30,000 are involved in chess in Ukraine today. persons. Out of 16,000. Young chess players work for more than 700 experienced professionals, 200 branches in children’s sports schools. It's really a great potential. Indeed, the latest achievements of the Ukrainian chess players are also outstanding at the 2004 and 2006 chess Olympics, and this year at the women's team. In general, I'll tell you that in recent years chess funding has been steadily increasing from the State budget, and today it's more than half a million dollars a year. But we understand that this figure is too small. At the same time, chess, they are in the only system of all non-Olympic sports. However, today we have initiated an appropriate draft of the decree, already under review in ministries and departments to increase the encouragement of chess athletes who are being acquired.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u72	Let me finish with a very interesting subject. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u73	The material encouragement of the best Ukrainian chess players, as it is now in several orders below the encouragement of the Olympic sports. So I hope that there will be support for the people's deputies in making the right decision. And besides, today, we're working with the Chess Federation on a field chess program in Ukraine, and we're studying the introduction of optional chess into a public education program, as it's intellectual and very important for the development of a child's kind of sport. That's what we predict, especially in the 7-11 State Program, which will be approved in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u74	Yuri Alexiyovich, Stepan Anatoliyovich, seems to have also meant promoting the achievements of chess players. If the congregation of Ukraine has become the world’s champion, it is an outstanding success and should be shown everywhere: on television, in newspapers, etc., because it is a rare fact that strengthens the authority of Ukraine, and must be promoted with the help of both your ministry and the ministries of education, of course, the press and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u75	Alexander Alexanderovich, if that's your question and you'll let me answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u76	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u77	Indeed, it's an extremely important issue to publicize the success media of Ukrainian athletes because there are some priority sports, and there are others that are often forgotten in the media, so today I want to thank all the channels in Ukraine that have increased the percentage of news about national sport itself. But there's no limit to that, and that's going to happen. And, let's say, the first test of the ministry's activities, the appropriate sports federation, which almost no one knew about, is what Anatoly Stepanovich Matvienko said, just the World Championship, which was held in Ukraine on the international 100-cell checkers, where he really managed to make our national athlete more popular today, like the 100-cellular checkers. [[Today is a two-time day.]] But what's very important to the development of each type of sport is the position of a particular sport federation, because that's where the main experts and the ideal instigators of this kind of sport are gathered. That is why the ministry today advocates giving greater powers to the federations, increasing their powers, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u78	Thank you. The question is in writing. By answering that question, you can conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u79	So then it's for the next one. It's a closed circle. I'll be right there. Next question: “What measures does the government take to correct the situation, particularly by involving the cost of sports lottery tickets?” This is a question from the Communist Party's MP. Indeed, we believe that one effective step to improve the financing of physical culture and sport is to raise funds through the production and production of sports lotteries, as is done in many developed countries of the world. The application of this financial instrument in our country today cannot be made in connection with the operation of the Law “On the Introduction of a Moratorium for the Issue of Licenses and the Conduct of Economic Activities from the Release and Conduct of Lotteries”. This issue needs to be settled, primarily at the legislative level, and we are addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine here. The draft Law on Sports Lotteries, which provides for a comprehensive settlement of this issue, is now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and introduced by national deputy Victor Korz. I hope that here my position on the sports lottery is fully demonstrated by both the profile committee, and each of the national deputies, and the lottery, the sports lottery, will start working on sports in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u80	Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u81	Hell, the "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye. The distinguished Minister, what you report on, is matters of the future of the country, and they must be addressed in a very systematic manner. I would like you to focus more on such things and issues as the creation of youth and children's organizations in Ukraine, as is done. These organizations could be a very serious educational moment. The second question I am interested in is how much did you ask the Government next year to raise awareness in the media about the plague of the twenty-first century — alcoholism, drug abuse, AIDS? Another very important moment. Yeah, we're running out of sports pitches today, but you'll see, school gyms, school gyms, computer classrooms. It can and will take 18 hours for these cultural hearers to work. And who and what made you write your statement? And how that affects what you're so enthusiastic about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u82	Thank you for three very difficult questions. With regard to youth and children’s organizations, all - Ukrainian youth organizations today operate in Ukraine more than 120, regional youth organizations more than 4,000, and children’s, 12 organizations and many regional organizations. A budgeted programme of 11.5 million is in place to support the programmes of youth social organisations, where priority is given to ensuring a healthy lifestyle and a wide range of programmes of youth, social and children's organisations this year have been supported by the State. Of course, there is a question of their effectiveness and an appropriate monitoring group that is working today will allow for the next year to take account of mistakes and, vice versa, tell youth and children’s organizations how to make their programs better and more effective. With regard to alcoholism, drug addiction, and AIDS, it is likely here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u83	Let me finish because three questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u84	With regard to alcoholism, drug addiction, other socially dangerous diseases, of course, tobacco and alcohol advertising should be restricted to the maximum possible limit on television on a visual basis. It should be seen that there is an appropriate direct compensation for tobacco and alcohol producers for the development of physical culture and sports, for the support of the young generation. And at the same time, there's no social advertising program in the Ministry today, but some of the components of each of the programs that are being implemented are social advertising that you can see today in Kiev and elsewhere. And by the end of this month, the second social advertising festival will be held in Kiev on 24 November. It was this initiative where we allow everyone to present the best examples of how to resist the negative impact of this mass of television advertising, radio, audio, visual that goes on our minds today. But this, again, lies in the legislative field today and there are appropriate initiatives in the Supreme Council. I hope they'll be supported by the Supreme Council Hall. As for my resignation, I will say only one thing that I have worked, I will work and I will work to implement those priorities that have been approved by the Ministry for the implementation of President Viktor Yushchenk's program "10 steps to meet the people" to implement the decisions of the government and the Supreme Council before your respective decision. And I am convinced that my successor will be able to continue the positive things and the positive programs that were adopted and approved by the Ministry during my leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u85	Okay. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u86	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Minister! What do you think the prospects for children's sports in rural areas are, I mean, the opening of district schools in rural areas, at least in rural areas with more than three thousand inhabitants, because there are usually secondary schools, which are more or less suitable for this base, which is about sports courses, sports courses, and so on, because for today, there are usually more than half of these children out there, and they find it very difficult to get to the district centers and nobody is compensating them. I think they would have opened such branches -- it would have been much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u87	Thank you for asking, it's wonderful. And I found in my report that today there is one instructor on 12 village councils, and this situation is certainly very, very wrong. At the same time today, physical and rural sports issues are reflected in relevant documents of the Cabinet of Ministers, such as the 2007-2011 physical and sports programmes, and the comprehensive Ukrainian village development support programme by 2011. The National Budget had a corresponding programme of 7.4 million dollars for Minagroprom. The following year, there will also be an increase of 21 percent. Expenditure on physical and sports work in the village is also foreseen in the local budgets, which support 237 local councils of Colossae. Today, there are 17.5 full - time gymnastics in the village. But of course, that's not enough. So the question is mutual. And we predict that those programs, the regional programs and the state program, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u88	Let me finish, because that's the last answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u89	They will be able to create a quality, modern material-technical and material-sports base in the village. So as one of the main directions of our work next year, we see the work with each of the rural heads, the inventory of the full state, and the calculations that are full of calculations, how much is needed today from the central local and private resources to develop this particular area in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u91	Thank you. Thank you, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to quote you on the rules. Please, don't worry. After answering the questions, clarifying questions, committee representatives may be given the floor to speak for a period of up to three minutes. If necessary, a discussion may be held that may not exceed 30 minutes. I suggest this because the committee that has considered this question proposes to do a 10-minute report. Then, together, we need to put ourselves into this rule, taking into account the presentation, and then finish the discussion by 12 o’clock. If you don't mind, I'm asking you to support this proposal so that you can consider this in 12 hours. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:38:33]] For 307 A decision is made. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please. Tomenko is head of the committee. Well, as far as you're concerned, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that the session hall supported the idea for the first time in the history of Ukraine to consider this very important issue. And I want to say that it's not just a session hall, it's the National Olympic Committee leaders invited, the district administrations, district councils, sports associations, all those people who care about physical culture and sports today. I am just as glad that the ministry, district administrations, in preparation for the Government Day, have already done some work, indeed, during the Collegiate Meeting. In fact, the government committee has reviewed the state programme, and I understand that the government will soon approve the State Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports, which in Ukraine, I'll tell you, was not 15 years old. Now we're going to have a complete and clear document on how to operate in this coordinate system. But I would like to draw attention to the very important problems that we have learned on the committee in recent months and are ready to solve together. The first problem, I would call this problem the ideology of physical culture and sport. We are absolutely convinced today that not only the formation of Ukraine as a great sporting state is a key task. The most important challenge today is to form a healthy country, because statistics show that we have up to 80% of children with physical disabilities in development or health problems today. So our priorities should be different, health, healthy lifestyle, physical culture, and sports. Not counting medals today, but assessing the development of physical culture and sports in the health of children, young people, older people, is a real assessment of what is being done in this area. I would like to say that today the development of physical culture and sports can become a national idea. I remember that once, with the late vice president of the Academy of Sciences, John Kuras, we debated the meaning of the national idea. And then we came to the conclusion that, in fact, the health of the nation, the formation of a nation as a whole, is what unites all parties, all regions. That's what we need to work on. Today, business and sports have been discussed. Similarly, we worry that this commercialization of sports will not lose physical culture and sports. Experts today joke that if you count all the wages of foreign footballers, the amount of money for foreign footballers will soon be in line with the general state budget for physical culture and sports in Ukraine. So you don't just have to say political things, you have to take it one step at a time. Last year we raised questions about the quota of legioners, three men asked, this year should be four. And so one step at a time, let's go up to the sport, not just to do business. Because I'm watching the last football games, and I'm starting to think that soon foreign coaches in the Supreme Council are going to tell the dark Ukrainians how to run sports. So I think we're smart enough to manage our own physical culture and sports, not to listen to people who came here to make money. Another very important problem that I would like to pay attention to. It's a management system. To this day, the minister reported only what he was responsible for. But, dear friends, we have the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education, we have thousands of sports units. Today's circumstantial analysis shows that serious funding in the Ministry of Sport Defence has been cut down, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been cut down, here, in truth, we should note positively that the Ministry of Education is trying to be more relevant here to the problems that there are. Today, when it comes to physical and sports leadership, it is necessary to draw a sports map of not only objects owned by the ministries for which they are responsible but all in the coordinate system. See what happened to the unions that we have daily sports facilities that are closed down or sold. When we draw all of this, we'll realize that, of course, there has to be a single centralized management system. There are arguments here and in favour of a separate State Committee on Sports, there are arguments in favour of the Ministry, I think we should just do it in such a way that whoever does it, the degree of authority is that any sports object in Ukraine is subject to influence and control. Then it will be an effective administration. The next problem is the problem of human resources. In fact, it's quite obvious that we lost the best coaches, especially in the early 1990s. We have more than 220 international trainers working abroad today. Today we have a mid-aged coach about 50 years old. Young people today do not feel that it is necessary to go there because it does not provide any funds or respect. This was a rural area. I just want to give you the numbers. And I'm going to do it without politics. At the same time, I'm going to talk about Lvivsky and the Donetsk district. When we say averages in Ukraine, it doesn't mean anything. You know, there's always a physical culture, there's a sport in the village that's been held up by an instructor on physical culture and sports that's funded. I'll tell you, in the Donetsk region, 384 village councils. Nine instructors are paid. In the district of Lviv, 666 village councils, 4 instructors are paid. Well, Chernigivska is an advance, 550 village councils, and one instructor pays. Do you want us to have physical culture and sports in the village if we have one man in the countryside doing physical culture and sports?Oh, my God! I sent a letter to the heads of the district councils and the heads of the district administrations. I don't see any fantastic funding here. This requires that in one rural council there be an instructor in physical culture and sports. The third problem is sports infrastructure. We talked about numbers today. I, well, we have work in Parliament to be more critical. In 5 years, we have built or reconstructed 30 objects in Ukraine! They're the absolute majority at the expense of an investor. We are the only state in the world that has not built any modern sports object at the expense of power or state. None! Because when we report "Privat" built there, another bank built it, it's nice to report it, but they built it, it's not the state that built it. So we're talking about sports courses today. We analyzed today, and I'll tell you that the local authorities reported to the Ministry. We have 9 sports courses in Kiev funded by the state. Another course, or one of the nine buildings. It's November of the month. So I would like to say that when we talk about sports infrastructure, we understood that there should be a clear and clear public approach. The city authorities need to understand that when they get in touch with a businessman or an investor, they need to understand that they can't ask him to pay for the land, like someone who builds a mall, because they have to put money in there and build it. As long as we don't have that understanding, we're going to have a situation like this in Kiev. When we have an athletic manoeuvring dedicated to the Embassy of God and Adelaide, and we've been fighting for the second year, it's probably necessary for the city authorities to go back to business and say, "You know the place is good, build a sports complex here," and not take away sports objects and give to anyone. [[There is a Supreme Court ruling that this is illegal and no one does it in Kiev]] There's a financing problem. I am absolutely convinced that government funding will not solve the issue of physical culture and sports. This was a lotteries. I'm always surprised that we're saying the right things here, and no one's doing anything. So, a year ago, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance, allowed us to rent this lottery again, so it's for the money from sports to go into the budget, but it allows us to do private business there. So let's say together that the lottery goes for sport and culture once and for all, and we're going to make that decision, and we're going to do it, not just from the rostrum telling us what we want to do. Or from the rostrum we've been talking for three years about this Sports Palace that we've been building the whole state. What happened? Our native State Property Fund said what was wrong with it. How private business rents the Sports Palace and pays as much as $50,000 a year. The normal situation that we built this Sports Palace, and now a few businessmen are paying us as much as $50,000 a year? And all the authorities of the state agreed. They say: “What’s so bad about this is that people make money.” So I would like not only to do declarations so that we can do specific work in the field of physical sports and culture. And I would like to advise those who are in pain for sport. The local council decides to remove the sports object, and we, the Supreme Council, have decided to ban it. Go to court, defend your rights, we'll help you. As in Giulia today, 10 tennis courts, 12 are being built, taken to the mall, and there's nothing we can do. In court, we must pursue and defend our rights. And finally. I am absolutely convinced that society today is ready to take care of physical education and sports. Business is ready to do that. The authorities need to unite with society and business and, once again, build a healthy country. This is a way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u94	Thank you very much. We have about 10 minutes to talk. If there are representatives of committees who would like to make a statement on this subject, please sign in. Please don't bother the minister now, he's listening to the discussion, please. Murderer. After him, Yavorowski. Then Corge. Instead of the Mordecai, John Mikolaiovich Bondachuk is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The decision to consider the matter at the Supreme Council’s Government Day was a faithful step, and we were convinced of this, for the one who listened attentively to the minister’s report on the family and the young and the co - report of the committee’s head of profile had the opportunity to see again, for it was indeed a nonconsequential matter. In addition to developing a healthy lifestyle, strengthening the gene pool of the nation, extending life expectancy, and so on, developing sports, physical culture is important for raising patriotism and promoting the authority of the Ukrainian State. And I fully support the thesis that today athletes, along with artists, are doing much more to promote Ukraine as an international nation than are politicians and other representatives of Ukraine. I'd like to remind you of a historical example. At one time, the German Democratic Republic was famous for its sports and sports achievements. And when one of the delegations arrived, Eric Honnecker accompanied her around Berlin and showed her -- here our Foreign Ministry -- here is our Ministry of Sport and Youth, which, for the propaganda of the German Democratic Republic, he noted, is doing 10 times more than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I think today we have a similar situation in Ukraine. Therefore, I am convinced that there is no need for politics here, on the contrary, we could unite all the healthy forces of our society around this subject, because, indeed, apart from saying that it doesn't matter, left, right or right, always tears appear in our eyes and joy opens our chests when our athletes win. And what's more, I, Mr. Kenzior, tell you a secret about evolution in our society's attitude towards state symbols, and this positive change is precisely due to the victories of our athletes in systematic, international victories, because an anthem is being performed, the flag of the state is rising. So what I'd like to say is, first of all, we need to support the budget in the second reading of increasing financing for sport and physical education. In general, the second is to entrust the government with the development of a national programme for the development of physical culture and sports and, in particular, higher-performing sports, and to ensure proper and regular monitoring of the integrated implementation of the intended measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u96	Thank you. He has the word Yavorowski. Give me your word. The tip will be delivered, please. After him, Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u97	Honorable Meetingers! Today, much has been said about sports and sports, and it's called quantitative performances, so I'd like to stop at high-quality performances. Today’s sports are in crisis and are quite deep. But there is a crisis in all of our societies, and we all see it. So the sport crisis is not about destroying it, it's just our inadequacy of thinking about the essence and role of sport in new social structures, a new spectrum of social and individual needs of every citizen of our society. And I think the biggest problem today is the lack of sports in the sport of the sport itself, from small sports courses to palaces, to sports priorities, which we consider to be a major achievement sport, which is a mass sport. Regrettably, for many years higher - ranking sports have been a priority among workers in physical culture and sports. By any means, the sport workers are breaking into this area. prestige, financial security, overseas travel, honorary titles -- all of this, medals -- all of this is a sport of great achievements, while mass sport has been criticized for many years. Among the students of physical and educational institutions, it is no longer prestigious to engage in mass sports. It's not prestigious to become a gym teacher, it's no longer prestigious, and today we're practically unable to get qualified professionals into a simple school where they can engage in direct physical culture, or mass sports. Today, we have many names that carry professional sports. It's a great sport, and it's a great achievement sport, an international, an Olympic, an elite sport, but the essence and purpose of one is a record and a victory at all costs. This sport has long become a major policy. Today it is prestigious to have a firm or an elite football club, or some famous athlete to sponsor. It's all prestigious, it's all politics, it's all political. And we, if we take a close look at the 2007 budget, we really do see the support of this elite sport, not the mass one that our society really needs. It is a sport such as school, college, sports for workers and employees, military sports. From here we have statistics that show that at present Ukraine is less than 30 - 40 percent behind Western states in the field of mass sports. I'm not going to talk long about numbers, but, really, today we have to go back to mass sports, create these courses, create infrastructure, and re-take the decisions that are necessary to involve still qualified specialists in the development of this sport, mass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u98	Kors. He's being followed by Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the government, honourable deputies! Well, first of all, I can't help but say that I'm shocked by Mr. Kendzior's words. I want to tell you that, in my opinion, you have a cavern, I would even say, the Neanderthal level of understanding of the Party's approaches to the development of physical culture, sports and the health of the nation as a whole. Dear colleagues, sporting achievements have always been one of the indicators of the level of development, to a large extent a card of any state. Is the State worthy of caring for the physical culture and sports in Ukraine? I'm convinced that I'm going to express the position of most of the 73th-thousandth general experts when I say that the state owes a great debt to athletes, trainers and to all fellow citizens in terms of creating conditions for a healthy way of life. Achilles' fifth development of physical culture and sport is really a material and technical base. Today we are exploiting everything that was once built in the Soviet Union. The State Budget in our country has not put any sports palace into operation in all years of independence. Not everyone may have pointed out that for this very reason, there was no world championship in the Olympics. I'm going to stop at the capital, and in the last 10 years, the city's authorities haven't come forward with anything positive either. If the builders were faced with land-based housing, they would soon be a sports capital, in fact, in our state. By the way, that's what State Building Standards require. And so we have the conflicts that we're talking about today, and this is the Olympic sports complex, which is the Manner of the Marchans. The prospect of sports bases in Crimea is long-standing: the Alushtine “Spartak”, the “Avangarde” Stadium, and others. It seems that trade unions deliberately destroy them by creating an incomprehensible management system. Bases where more than one generation of prominent domestic athletes are raised are unrelentingly exploited, unrenewable, and depreciated. I think at the time of the question that these bases that were built at the expense of the people were handed over to the central authorities of the executive branch of physical culture and sport to create a national centre for the preparation of the national assembly teams of Ukraine. Not a better situation in the Ministry of Defense with the attention of law enforcement authorities to the development of a material and technical base. I'd like to say a few words about sports lotteries. Dear colleagues who lobby the lottery business, I would ask you to sit down at the negotiating table and, indeed, find a solution to the issue that would benefit the health of the nation, physical culture, and sports. Similarly, we would like to draw attention to the Law on the purchase of goods and jobs and services at the expense of government funds. They are today hindering the preparations, the standards of this Law, the preparations of our Olympics. They won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u100	Thank you. Katerina Samuelk. I'll see you later. The discussion will be over, then. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u101	I don't think it's surprising that the United Nations has declared that Ukraine is a dying nation. We're more known as a corrupt state, celebrating political scandals, leading TB, AIDS, drug addiction. And on the days of the government, which were repeatedly held and even by international parliamentary hearings, these issues were discussed. But what I'm saying is that no authority, no matter what color it has, had the political will to make a breakthrough. But this question -- the development of physical culture and sports -- is extremely important, because it's a matter of a healthy generation, it's a question of the future of our state. The wise put money into sports, and the temporary put money into treatment. I am pleased that there are many athletes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine who have brought more than one gold medal to Ukraine, but why don’t we, dear ones, ring bells because sports, playgrounds, no basics, no sports forms. If anyone thinks that the Olympics will grow up on asphalt, they are wrong. Even in this room, please approach our distinguished athletes, and you will be impressed by their natural modesty. And you know that each of them won their first victory on the country course, on the sports course of the school, at the children's sports school. And that's why we need to solve the first question today: financing this area. Go to Belarus and learn that hundreds of modern sports facilities are being built each year. This is how real leaders, authoritative leaders, care for a healthy way of life. And we still don't have a state-wide program for physical culture and sports. When Prime Minister Janukovic, we held the All-Ukrainian Sports Congress, where a concept was adopted on the basis of which we should have developed this long term strategy. Sadly, though, she was buried, the problem was forgotten, and only today do we return to her. The problem of closing down and changing the profile of physical institutions. Look, there are markets and warehouses in the stadiums. See what the only sports hotel – Sport – is now proposed to privatise. Someone thought about where that athlete would come from, a modest, future Olympian, and at which hotel he would live or not live. So I'm out of time, I want to ask everyone. We need not talk, but a state-wide program that will solve all the issues of both the material and technical base, and the training, and the financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u102	Thank you. I'd like to ask Kenzier for a line. I would like to know this rule of procedure for those who speak. It would be possible not to name and say what you wanted to say. And so he has the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u103	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. I would like both the TV set and the radio set, and my fellow national deputies, as it were, to find out clearly where the cavery of thinking is. Your boss Janukovich's pastry is notorious. The cave level of Ukrainian in another colleague of yours, Azarov, is common knowledge. Pastry, as it were, is the upbringing of young people and your criminal authorities, who have been buried in tericons by hundreds of normal businessmen. Mr. Corge, those aren't the crusts you're baking. Here's your cavern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u104	Excuse me, but specifically on this line, I think Korge was right. So let's not go on with this. [[Applause]] And you don't have to, I mean again, you're talking about language. She is Kloczkova, a champion of the Olympics repeatedly, speaks Russian, but this does not diminish her authority and achievements, and influence the authority of Ukraine. Please don't talk about it. In accordance with the Rules, I have the right to summarize our discussion. I'd like to say a few words. The committee did not prepare the project for today’s consideration, since it hoped that it would be necessary to prepare for the new ministry’s leadership. I suggest you prepare this project on Thursday, because whoever's in charge of the ministry needs to develop all the things the MPs talked about and you talked about in your speech to see the prospect of sports. And prepare it somewhere on Thursday, Friday, so that we can vote. I'm talking to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka. Regarding the lottery, the theme here sounded absolutely correct. Prepare a draft law. We're going to introduce state lotteries, which we're going to focus on supporting the development of sports, for example, medicine. It's going to be perfectly normal for people. There's another subject. We MPs should show respect for the law, including health care. An adopted law that prevents smoking in public places. I'm addressing the deputies. Where do you smoke? Those who smoke, I mean. Stop breaking the law, or you'll get rid of your parliamentary mandates. I'm asking you to pay attention to this. We should set an example. And finally, to Yuri Pavlenko, the minister. You represent a party that declares itself to be patriots all the time. And that's obviously justifiable. You understand very well that replacing a minister in any field is a downturn in the organization of the work itself. If you are patriots, please take your application and work quietly. You've seen that there's no point in criticizing you. You're fighting for the industry, you're dealing with the federations, you're dealing with the athletes, you're dealing with the authorities. I think we can also get an increase in budget allocations on the field, as you said, and in the program that we're going to take, we're going to take these approaches before the budget. Consider this suggestion. And in the meantime, I'm finishing the session by 12 o'clock, and I'm calling it a 30-minute break, 37 minutes, and then I'm listening to coal issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u105	Please announce that the morning session is continuing. In the corridor, it is meant to announce that they will enter the Chamber of Deputies. I came in for a minute, we came in a minute earlier than we announced, but... The issue is being considered in the order of Government Day on the development of the coal sector of Ukraine and the introduction of an energy saving model of the economy as a way to gain the energy independence of our state. Reported by the Minister of Coal Industry, Mr. Tolub Sergey Borisovich. And he will have a report on this report by the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich. Sergei Borisovich, please have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u106	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear national deputies and invited to the day of government! Not in the first issue of coal industry are considered in this room in the country’s higher legislative body, which demonstrates the special role of the economy of the state. Before setting eyes on the way the sector has developed, I would like to put a stop to its present state and steps that have been taken by the government in recent times. Let me just draw your attention to some of the problems we faced in August. First. Debts on wages in front of miners amounted to 166 million. of which 133 million - in active businesses. Halus began to feel a threatening shortage of personnel, both in basic employment and in engineering. Let me just give you an example that since the beginning of the year the number of workers in the field has decreased by almost 10,000. Male, including work-related cleaning discharges at 2,000. Hey. To date, the number of retired workers is 30 percent. In doing so, the labor purge is 25 percent. Almost every fourth mine is headed by a regressor director. Because 50 percent of directors are people of retirement age. Secondly, almost 85 percent of the annual budget funding to cover costs of self-sustainment was used in advance before the beginning of the fourth quarter. And planned coal mining -- fourth quarter -- was increased by 20 percent. Thirdly, the debt of energy and coxochemicals for unloaded coal amounted to more than 200 million. Fourthly, every second mine is not provided with the necessary amount of cleaning work, and about two dozen have no lava at all and do not produce coal. Plan 141 was to prepare the beating, and 89 were actually prepared. So that's minus 53. In a year and a half, the last number of clean - up discharges decreased by 24 percent. Fifth, due to an independent, improper control of the quality of coal mined on individual mines, it is well above 50 percent. It's not just coal, it's hard to call mining. The U.S. Attorney’s Office has found coal deposits in mine warehouses and enrichment factories worth more than 100,000. tons. Sixthly, by August of this year, the sector had not received a SP239 million. for capital investments, and last year, 205 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Last year, nearly 36 percent less than the previous year's equity investment was developed for the development of the sector. Today, there is a branch based on the consumption of the productive potential that has been formed in recent years. The output of the production capacity exceeds the input. Last year alone, 2.8 million people died. tons of production capacity, and only 240 thousand have been introduced. Ton, or 11 times less. It's the seventh. The high level of emergency of mining equipment, only this year, resulted in the loss of 6.5 million tons of coal. The need for capital repairs of cleaning and transit equipment is about 300 million. Only 43 percent of mechanized fixtures, 44 percent of passerby combiners, and 29 percent of cleaning combines available are used in the mines. Another may cause damage to industrial mines and may require repairs. And each unit of this equipment costs hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars. Thus, the problem of capitalizing mining equipment is urgent and requires state support. Eight. By August, almost every third mine had not been equipped with enterprises and the social sphere to work in the fall-winter period. The schedule for the export of coal to workers in the industry and the population was not in place. In 7 months it was completed by 48 percent. Nine. The analysis of the work of state-owned enterprises showed the numerical weaknesses of the existing governance structure, the permanent restructuring of state-owned enterprises and even the reproduction of the Ministry of Coal did not achieve the desired results of crisis management and the improvement of the efficiency of government administration. These shortcomings have led to a 2.3 million - ton reduction in coal production compared to the previous year and the increase in losses. In August alone, the losses of one ton were three times higher than in January, and at the beginning of the year, they accounted for almost two billion dollars. The tests revealed numerous violations of financial discipline and the misuse of budgetary resources. There were unique facts of coal sales at reduced prices. In doing so, the purchase of materials and equipment was done at high prices. For example. At the average price of the forest for the field in 218 rubles per cube, the Donbas mine management bought it for nearly 400 gravel. Only 15 mines out of 138 achieved financial balance. Other mines need subsidies between 30 and 800 rubles and more than one ton of extracted coal. I would like you, honourable national deputies, and all our citizens to understand that unfortunately, in this state of mines, rapid positive changes in the field are hard to expect. It takes some time, a little work to solve the old problems that have become chronic today. The College of the Ministry approved the crisis response to the most pressing problems in the field. First of all, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic's commission and the government's disposal of the debt on the wages of mine miners. All available funds were used to prepare a new line of clean-up discharges, or new jobs. Actual monthly coal mining in each mine is determined, the heating and coxochemical systems are operational, the agreed and approved plans for the disposal and calculation of coal products. Government support over the past three months has increased budget allocations for the construction and maintenance of mines. If 427 million dollars have been allocated in the first seven months for these purposes, then in the last three to 397. In addition, the underfunding of the special fund has been reduced by 117 million dollars. The debt of energy and coxochemicals for unloaded coal has been completely eliminated. This allowed for an increase of almost 11 percent in August-August. A new transparent mechanism has been developed to determine the price of coal depending on its thermal capacity, and since last week it will be introduced gradually. Accelerating rates are being compensated for from the beginning of the year for preparing for the winter production and social infrastructure of the sector. Today all boilers are included in the work and signed passports ready for winter. However, the shortcomings of current legislation make it impossible to make effective use of even those small budget funds designed to finance the transfer of the social sphere to municipal property. We have made proposals for changes to the Ukrainian Law on Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property, and we would like to ask you to support them. At the same time as the Ministry’s current work, the concept of coal development for the next five years by 2011 is being discussed in the working groups. The goal of the concept is to provide for economic needs, competitive domestic coal production. Coal production is planned to reach 100 million tons in 2011. In the current year, it will reach 80 million. tons. A necessary condition for this is the restoration of industrial potential in the industry, which is impossible without the accelerated introduction of new production capacity. Just mention 1957 when 63 mines were introduced in just one year, including 37 so - called cosmopolitans with a total capacity of 15.4 million. A ton of coal production per year. To compare this amount of power, we have entered with you over the last 25 years. In order to implement this strategy, it is necessary to invest extraordinaryly in the field of capital investments. For the current year, the ministry has already increased by 26 million. The sum of the financing of mine-new building number 10 of Novovolinska to produce the first coal next year. Consider the possibility of building new mines on 25 coal exploration sites. Seven promising coal fields were taken in Donetsk, Lugansk, Lviv, and more than one billion tons of coal. In order to carry out the program we planned, the Ministry announced in 2007 the rapid passage of mining. In order to solve the problems noted and other, the Ministry, with the participation of scientists, regional and local authorities, has worked out proposals for an effective industry management system. The main task of the government should be to remove shadow schemes in relations between state-owned enterprises and businesses, as well as to create transparent rules for working in the coal sector. Respectable national MPs, the world trend shows that in all major coal - mining countries, since 2002, there has been an increase in the production of coal, and the increase in the production of storm coal has started since 2000. We have a downward trend, which has made the economy critical of imported energy, particularly natural gas and oil. You remember, in 2000, the total coal production was 80 million. One million tons, including storm coal. And last year, 78 and 300,000, respectively. More recently, 76 percent of the country’s thermal power plants were produced by coal. Today, about a third of coal - produced electricity is produced. For comparison. In China, it accounts for 70 percent, in the US of 60, in Germany of 58, and in Poland of over 90 percent. I think everyone understands that coal should become the main energy source in Ukraine, because coal reserves in Ukraine amount to 117 billion tons and storm coal to almost 9 billion tons. In total, coal stocks account for 95 percent of total organic fuel reserves. The ministries have worked out the main directions for reforming the sector, as set out in the draft laws on the development and specialities of the privatization of coal enterprises and on the promotion of the prestige of mining. I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies to consider and support these bills immediately when they arrive before the Supreme Council. Projects have also been developed for sectoral and government documents relating to the creation of the State Carbon Quality Control Inspectorate and the State Enterprise Coal Lease Company. These and other normative instruments provide for the regulation of relations between the State and private business, as well as for the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of the European Union. In order to provide a system of State support for a stimulating character, we view and modify the mechanism of its distribution, depending on the volume of coal produced. We're working on projects of a single technological cycle: coal-cox-metal, coal-heat power plant. Industrial methane mining projects are being implemented. A system of complex work security based on modern technology. Today, a program is being implemented to ensure that miners are fully equipped with personal protection, specialty, lighthouses, and self - rescue. By the end of the year, this issue will be resolved, although in the first half of this year, the budget of 2 million dollars, 6 million dollars, has never been used. In the field of many other problems identified by the decision of the Ministry College, as well as by my personal program, which is being implemented by industry experts. At the end of the speech, I would like to stress that we need to find a compromise between today's investments in the coal sector, new approaches to its development with tomorrow's benefits for all of Ukraine. Saving an existing situation without the use of unusual measures in the near future will result in irreversible destructive changes that could result in a reduction in the amount of carbon in terms of 30-40 million tons and the loss of energy independence of the state. Then coal, followed by oil and gas, will be the product of critical imports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u107	Please have 20 minutes to answer the question, since it will be 20 minutes for Yuri Anatolyovich Boyka. So write down who would like to ask the minister a question. Constantinople, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Sergey Borisovich, a very meaningful report, and I, under every phrase, signed and agreed on each of your conclusions, a very objective picture of the terrible situation of the coal industry that you have inherited. You and I, as professionals -- you -- in the coal industry, I -- in the coal industry, we know the state of the industry in 1998 today. Of course, they're incomparable. If we take Soviet time, Peter Nikolaevich remembers very well, he also worked in this system a little while we were extracting 200 million coal. The only energy carrier is this attitude! I don't have a question, just a request, because as professionals, I want to go into the policy area, there, doubt your plans, your abilities and other things. Sergey Borisovich, from what I can tell, the Drzykowský mazavod is a flagman of machinery. Because all these plans to rebuild the coal industry without the base, without the technological progress of the coal machine, you understand. The factory is in terrible shape today. I'm asking you as a minister, an effective professional, for real, look at the factory with your own eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u109	I am very grateful for this question and for the pain you have expressed in your question. I want to say, today, really, it's the efficient work of machine builders that depends on the efficient work of the industry, its safe work. And you know, the first ones, the counterfeits that today are modern equipment, the equipment of the third millennium, it's already showing its results. We see this in the work of the "Krasnoarmian Western", we see it in the work of the pit of the name of the West. And you know, I really want this new equipment to be, as soon as possible, on all the mines where it could be applied. And we've recently held such a meeting with all the owners and managers of all the machinery factories that are in Ukraine today, and we're now doing the 2007 program. Because without it, you can't work normally either in machine tools or in miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u110	Is there a written question for you? Look, Sergey Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u112	Let me ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u113	What is done to prevent the closure of mines and incisions that have a carbon balance? Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Well, what I'd like to say is that unbalanced decisions about closing non-profit and cost-effective mines, despite the availability of coal stocks, have led to a sharp deterioration in socio-economic and environmental conditions in some coal-based regions. On behalf of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, a decision has been taken to introduce a moratorium on mine closures that have a balance sheet and condensation reserve. Today, ten of them, we've already decided in college to continue the coal production until the stocks are ready. Other mines can't be restored for technical reasons, but we're still looking at possibilities. But they'll be placed if they can't be preserved. That's why we're also now looking at the possibility of providing state support to the identified mines by joining them into powerful mines by territorial sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u114	Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u115	Please, Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u116	Turn it on, please. And, Your Honor Sergey Borisovich, you're pretty optimistic about drawing a painting that's now in the coal sector, but the problems that the branch has faced today have emerged in Soviet times, and over the course of the 15 years it's been getting worse, as it is now, lately. You're saying that every year you're going to be betting in every region, in every area, in one new mine. You understand very well that it's not technically possible, because the base of the miners won't allow it, and we won't be able to design these mines. In addition, no funds are available because it takes between five and eight billion dollars to build each mine. What do you mean when you talk about such a large - scale construction and where will investment be involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u117	Thank you, Mikhail Yakovic. I'll tell you that without perspective, without seeing tomorrow for the coal sector, you know, we can just not talk about the independence of our state. And today we see that there are these areas, I said, we've looked at 24, seven particulars, which are said to be promising, where we can design and build these mines, in some regions, I've been talking about. And we're really looking forward to involving strategic investments in the construction of these mines. And I'll tell you, these proposals are coming, and they are. I've recently met with French campaign leaders, I've spoken to the Ambassador of America, I've also talked to some American campaigns that already have visions of coming to some of the mines. I'm going to tell you that today, of course, the state itself is so large a mine, the number of mines, it's not going to lift, and we understand that with you, but we have to do it and we're going to do it from the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u118	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u119	In view of the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced another restructuring of the coal sector in Ukraine, what is the essence of the proposed restructuring, and what results are expected from its implementation? Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. I am very grateful. I would like to tell you, Mikola Vasilovich, that a successful solution to coal mining tasks depends to a large extent on the efficiency of industry management in general and in each enterprise separately. In order to increase the competitiveness of our coal production, rational and purposeful use of budget funds, we have developed proposals for optimising the management of coal industry. As a result of the reform, it is planned to give the legal personality status to mines and to establish appropriate associations. So today the mine is the main enterprise in the coal sector. And we need to create conditions for it to work effectively. According to experts, the concept of reform is widely discussed in labour groups, in trade unions, we are about to conclude this programme and, I think, we will also give it to the government of Ukraine for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u120	Tomenko. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u121	As a non-expert, I realize that obviously the key problems here are the social protection of miners and their families, the safety of the people working here, and the socio-economic and cultural development of those regions. So when I was driving through Donetsk, in the Lugansk region and communicating, I realized that one of the possible problems that could have improved the situation was the problem of a monopolized market. So I heard from the managers, and from the miners, that they are under certain circumstances obliged to sell coal exclusively to certain companies. Accordingly, these companies dictate conditions that in price policy do not contribute to the development of these companies directly and normally the social condition of miners. Is there such a problem of a monopolized coal market? If so, what can be done to resolve it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. I'd like to say one thing. Today, the problem is that the market is balanced and not monopolistic. It's a pity. Because today, businesses, state-owned coal industries and mines that are left over, and that's not enough, they're almost extracting 58 percent of the total today, but that's almost 80 percent of the mines. You got it. And if you look at the entire balance sheet, state enterprises extract 84 percent of the coal and 16 percent of the coke. And this energy coal is all going through one structure, the state structure, the National Shareholder Company, the Energy Company of Ukraine, at the thermogeneration of Ukraine, you know? Four generations of Ukraine. In addition, a small amount, 1%, goes to the oily and 16% coke, it goes to the coxochemical plants. But there's a demand there today that's 2 times what we can offer today at our state enterprises. I mean, today we don't have a dilemma about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u124	I just want to say, it's very important for us today to create conditions to make our mines comfortable and they already are. We've raised the price of coke coal in September by 8% in October by 8%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u125	Written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u126	Is it possible to anticipate full funding for the coal sector only from the General Fund of the State Budget, excluding the financing of the Special Fund, which has been problematic for the last two years, resulting in a shortfall of 280 million dollars in 2005 and 380 million dollars in the current year. It's a faction of the region. Thank you. Coal finance, the Special Fund of the State Budget, was first funded in 2004. To this end, it was financed by the General Fund in the amount of 200 million dollars. This was designed for capital construction and technical resupply, and it was done 100%. But as the practice of last year and current years has shown, coal companies did not receive 205 million dollars from the Special Fund last year, and the underfunding for August 1st was 239 million dollars. Only accepted by the government, personally by the Minister of Finance, Mikola Azarov, has managed to reduce the funding gap by 117 million dollars. But unfortunately, even today, debt remains, which we think will be repaid by the end of the year. I would also like to point out that the creation of the Special Fund has a different purpose than financing coal programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u127	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Sergey Borisovich, in the draft budget for today's year, the changes that we will consider today after lunch are proposed to send 100 million to miners. I remember that a month and a half ago, 120 million were taken out of the restructuring and paid for. So coal production is falling, wages are rising, forced to pay. At the same time, the materials that you've given out indicate the advantages and the private mines over the state mines and you see the solution to the need to privatize the mines. Questions. So first you take the money out of the government budget, you take it out into other areas and branches, you put it on these things, and then you privatize it. On the other hand, if you're taking from restructuring, how can you be the people who lost their jobs, the former miners, because they're both supposed to be there for help and training and that kind of thing. So what about this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u129	Thank you. One thing I want to say today is that people who go down into mines every day and courageously extract coal to make every second light burn here, I'll tell you, they deserve more, more than they say, the level of wages and what we pay them today is, you know, not the level that deserves these important people. And I want to say that why we went there, you said, from the restructuring you took away and so forth, because on August 1, 85 percent of the government funds that were projected for the entire year were taken from such letters in advance and paid the salary, you know. And today, the coal mining plan is up for the fourth quarter, and people are trying to do it, and they have to get a decent salary and a bonus for these issues. And so, I very much ask you to come to this, as they say, human needs miners, not in Tuluba, but in those who work every day. Come on, help me, give me the 100 million we're asking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u130	The language's coming. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u131	What work is being done with regard to investing, in the social and household areas of cities and villages where mining enterprises are closed down? Whether a government budget mechanism is being developed, taking into account the crisis in the social problems of cities and districts, the closure of mines to prevent rising unemployment, and other negative phenomena for the urban and mined populations. Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. I want to tell you that this question is now not directly related to the Ministry of Coal, but by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of December 25, 2002 No. 1984, the functions of creating new jobs for workers who are being released from mines that are being disposed of by appropriate district government administrations. Annually, public budget programmes are formed to finance employment and create new jobs with appropriate budgetary allocations. But that is clearly not enough. Article 127 of Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2007 deals with a general fund, a mandatory state unemployment insurance offering to channel $130 million into the creation of new jobs. According to local authorities, 26.5,000 new jobs were created in 9 months this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u132	Thank you. Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u133	Dear Sergey Borisovich, please tell us how the engineering is done and how the purchase of mining equipment is regulated in order to avoid the purchase of already used, decorated and presented as new mining equipment? Thank you. I'll pass on the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u134	Well, bet in 40 seconds. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u135	Hell, the "Regions" faction. I would like to add to the question of my colleagues what is the Ministry's ideology in future privatization? It seems to me that we have been discussing this issue in faction so that, at the time of privatization, high-lying enterprises will go away and the State will remain low-lying enterprises. Is that why you think about the ideology of privatizing this complex?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u136	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Nikolayevich and Aleksandr Nikolayevich. First of all, according to the expert review, the procedure for conducting competitive tenders in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I'll tell you that unfortunately, the system that worked led to four such tenders in seven months, in which the games were played by 550 million. There are only 190 contracts. And we met someone who had to cancel one tender because there was this equipment, I mean, the headlights for miners that didn't meet any of today's safety requirements, and it wasn't produced where. That's why we canceled the tenders. We have now established a new tender committee, chaired by the Deputy Minister. We have drawn our institutions here as industry. ” You know, DonGyprougmash, who is an expert assessor, plus we have brought the institutions of the National Academy of Sciences here. There is a special procedure under which this equipment will be developed before the contract for its delivery is concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u137	And the second question. Give me more time to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u138	By the ideology of privatization, I mean. We have tried to describe this ideology in the draft Law on Industry Development and the peculiarities of Privatization. Why can't there be, as you say, a particularly attractive economic mine. Because only 138 of today's 15 mines are in operation, and the economy is still financially balanced. And the rest of them are economically unattractive. And I told you, 20 mines don't have lions at all, they're just lost today. To that end, we have developed today the criteria in this law, and we will refer it to you for consideration, where we can find and create conditions under which these mines will become economically acceptable. But we have decided that we will not privatize now, as is said to be a selective enterprise, until the entire industry has been dismantled and transferred and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. And all the finesse will be in the draft law that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u139	It's a hunchback.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u140	A hunchback, a party of regions. Dear Sergey Borisovich, after active action and work in 2004, during 2005 and by the middle of 2005, at mine construction, number 10, we have practically seen jobs not moving forward. [[Novovolinski]] Only after you arrived did we see how the work began to be actively financed, and the work really would boil. I'd like to hear it from you again in person, or in 2007 the first row of 10 mines will be delivered. This is essential for the city of Novovolinsk. So, in its time, there was a priority development area, it was time-consuming, we know why, it's now gaining power to make this area of priority work. And the opening of 10 mines is going to be the stimulus that will boost the economic life of the entire region. On behalf of the Volinians, I thank you for your support, and that is the answer I want to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u141	Thank you so much for asking. I want to say that the Novovolinska mine, 10, is a very powerful mine that's going to produce 900 thousand tons a year, as a minimum, and it's been building for almost 20 years. We've considered all of these issues, the problems that are and what needs to be done. I'll tell you, in seven months this year, only 20 million dollars were funded. Now over the last three months, we've been funding 33 over there, increasing the number of mines. Now it's going at a normal rate, as they say, of construction. By the end of the year, more than 40 million will be won there. And for the next year, we're going to put 300 million to the end of the construction of this mine, the first queue. And the first coal will be in December of the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u142	Sergey Borisovich, I'll take this opportunity to ask you a question. The issue is often debated, and in the session room, including mines that produce coke coal, usually either directly or indirectly linked to metallurgical enterprises. There profits are earned, and regressions, debts on wages are transferred to the budget. Maybe they need to be linked by some kind of relationship, maybe it's illogical for me to go into privatization with these very companies that use that raw material for their own production. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u143	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I'll tell you, that's a very good question and it's very necessary today. We're working on legal possibilities to make this complex work for the only one here, that's for the profitability of enterprises, because those mines that extract coke coal are very old mines mostly. They're extracting coal in such difficult conditions, and today they're mines, first of all, those that are so called cool, they're working out cool layers. And what I'm saying is that these are the directions of work that we have and work out. But here we've been talking to one of the leaders of a powerful metallurgical combination, and I think we're going to try to work out a model in the near future, as they say, a pilot project on this issue and see what we can do and we'll go out with this work already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u144	Thank you, have a seat, please. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Minister of Fuel and Energy, has the floor. He's got 10 minutes to report, for information, probably anything. And then there'll be 15 minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u145	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The main priorities of Ukraine’s energy policy are defined in the energy strategy until 2030. In view of the fact that Ukraine refers to the number of countries partly provided with traditional types of fuel and energy resources and, therefore, is forced to import them, the issue of rational use of traditional energy resources, the optimization of own resources and the transition to alternative sources of energy has become very relevant. The implementation of the energy strategy should ensure that Ukraine becomes an influential and active participant in international energy relations and strengthen the energy security of our nation. Electricity is the basic sector of Ukraine's economy, and the energy potential of the state allows not only to provide electricity to the needs of domestic consumers, but also to make export supplies in large quantities. The integration of the Ukrainian energy system into Europe is an integral part of Ukraine's strategic goal of joining the EU. Ukraine has fairly powerful, developed gas pipelines and electricity networks, allowing it to play an important role in energy co-operation between the SND countries and the EU. In terms of global energy processes, it is also worth taking into account the favourable geopolitical, geographical position of Ukraine and its associated role as a transit State. In view of these factors, the following PEC strategic tasks can be identified in the near future. First. Providing quality and reliable energy. Automatizing the area of natural gas transit and securing Ukraine's image of a reliable transit state. Diversification of energy sources, increasing energy efficiency and switching to alternative sources. The next shift to the principles on which the EU's internal gas and electricity markets function. The reform of the coal sector. With a significant increase in electricity consumption, increased coal, oil, and gas production, the strategy envisions a significant reduction in consumption of gas in Ukraine. The reduction in gas consumption will be achieved by implementing a set of organizational and technical measures. First of all, it's the modernization and reconstruction of the power supply of thermal power plants. In particular, the introduction of boilers with a circulating boiling layer is planned in the Transnistrian, Slovenian TEC, boiler. A ball of energy at the Dragon TEC is being developed. to complete the construction of the 225 megawatt Maneuver Energy Cloud of the Dobrotire TEC. Secondly, the amount of coal used to produce electricity at TEC is increasing to 33 billion cubes. Thirdly, the reconstruction and modernization of the GES of the Dniprovos Cascade by credit to the World Bank and the introduction of additional capacities. The launch of two Tashlik GAES units at 300 megawatt capacity, the introduction of a 324 megawatt of the Transnistrian GAES in 2007 will allow for an increase in hydropower production by 165 million kilowatt-hours and an annual replacement of 87,000 tons of coal. The reconstruction of the existing small GES and the construction of new ones will increase electricity production by 10 times in 2030. In order to ensure the demand for electricity and its exports, it is planned to increase the installed capacity of the TES to 42.2 million kilowatts in 2030. It should be noted that the amount of electricity produced by TES for the time being and in the future will be determined by the closing of the electricity balance in the absence of sufficient manoeuvre capacity. The increase in the production of electricity for TENs indicates the strategic value of heat - generation enterprises. The development of the heat generation is projected by the use of its own coal, with a share of which in the fuel balance of the TEC will be about 80 percent. This will contribute to the development of the domestic coal industry and will have a positive impact on energy security. So far, according to the Government's Ordinance on Reconstruction Measures, the modernization of thermal power plants by 2010 has already been developed by energy-generating campaigns on the basis of projects for the reconstruction of ten power grids. The task of the rehabilitation of TES energy clouds is to introduce energy-efficient clean technologies, to burn domestic coal, including the introduction of a circulating boiling layer that allows low-grade coal to be used, to modernize turbine equipment, to regulate turbines, and so forth. In addition, it is planned to actively implement steam-gas installations that will allow for a substantial improvement in CPD equipment. By 2010, it is envisaged that the sites will be built, first of all, to ensure the issuance of powerful power stations, to form a system-building network of GES to transfer power from the Western regions of the country to scarce central and eastern regions; secondly, to strengthen inter-state connections to increase the export supply of electricity; and thirdly, to move electricity from the southern Odessa region to the sources of Ukraine; and fourthly, to increase the reliability of the provision of Crimean, Kyiv, Carpathian regions and Donbas. Special attention is planned to be given to the development of networks in rural areas, including the replacement of gas with electricity for heating housing and social infrastructure. At present, Minpalevenergo, together with the World Bank, has already begun implementing and initiating a whole range of energy projects. In particular, the project is being prepared with the EBRD, which is aimed at reconstructing the substation in Dniprovsk, Donbas regional energy systems, connecting Dniestrów’s GAES to the GUES network of Ukraine, and developing the Main Power Networks of Crimean AES. In addition, the construction project of 750 kilowatts of the Plain AES is scheduled to begin shortly. the total cost of about one and a half billion dollars involving EBRD funds, the main goal of which is to eliminate the existing limitation on the issue of Equinox and Hmiel Powers. As part of the implementation of the joint EBRD, projects are planned to build several lines in the Odessa region. The adoption of enabling legislative acts to save, as well as the activation of independent inspection networks to control the quality of energy resources, such as coal, will significantly improve the quality of energy conservation in the state, and the continued positive dynamics of energy and energy efficiency will contribute to the financial recovery of PEC enterprises, the renewal and modernisation of their core funds, which will enable Ukraine to significantly strengthen energy security. Thank you for your attention. San Sanic, may I have a written question?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u146	Please sign up for Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u147	Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u148	Now, wait. Kalashnikov, then a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u149	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions, Anti-Crist Coalition. First of all, I would like to thank you for your high professional level. Here I hear you and Sergey Borisovic speaking, once again I would like to reiterate once again that today the coalition government is a government of professionals. I am sure that it is your position today, the position of the State and the patriot of Ukraine, and despite the fact that there are many critics who do not really understand the state of the national energy situation, that I would like you to reaffirm, if possible, the possibility that the 2007 budget, the main financial document, will indeed enable you to carry out all the plans and tasks that you have discussed in your statements. I reiterate my support for your position as a professional and patriot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u150	Thank you for asking. I want to assure you that we have a country's energy development programme, understood by society and professionals. It is based on five national projects, some of which I delivered in my statement and some 15 regional projects. In addition, in the next year's budget, we propose, and this is already adopted, in principle, by the Government and the Budget Committee, a market-based approach to financing these programmes through loans entrusted to State banks. Accordingly, these loans are taken by energy companies that are responsible for the implementation of these projects. These projects are implemented and are calculated on a civilized market basis without budgetary funding directly, as we have adopted this throughout the world and whose experience we are making full use of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u151	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u152	Question one: “What is the stage of the creation of a new energy conservation programme, foreseen by Ukraine’s energy strategy by 2030? According to President of Ukraine's decree, we have a National Agency of Ukraine to ensure the efficient use of energy resources. In line with the commitments made to him, it developed a design of an appropriate concept. It's going through, let's say, filtration in specialists. And I think that in the near future, it's going to come into life. So it's going to be embodied by a concept developed by an energy agency. The second question is, "How does the new energy conservation programme now being developed by the government and the energy strategy by 2030 harmonize?" Well, we're formulating clearly the goals that we're setting and the goals that we're setting in this program are, of course, reducing the use of energy in our country to a unit of GDP. And that's the end result of our work. And that's why all the businesses, all the companies that enter the Minpalevenergo orbit, are working in that direction. I have everything, Alexander Alexandrovich, on a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u153	Please, Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u154	Mikhailo Wolintz, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, you and I all understand how much it is necessary to now fund the field in the field of the fuel and energy complex. But at the same time, for 2007, the project is one of the articles to fund applied scientific and technical development in the field of the fuel and energy complex for only $12.1 million, and the other article is to finance the scientific infrastructure for only 480,000 dollars. That's it. It's in a situation where there's a fuel-energy complex. I'm the deputy head of the Fuel and Energy Committee, and since you didn't see it personally, you've made some effort to increase funding in this particular area. Do you rely on your intercessors or helpers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u155	Thank you for the very interesting question. I think that academic science in general really has to be funded by the budget. And that's right. It develops fundamental trends that have an effect, not today, but three, five, six years later. And the applied science that this thing is about is being financed by the companies of the fuel and energy complex and should ensure their development. Just when she proves her need for her services, she has appropriate orders. So I want to let you know that we have this question all the time in our consideration. And all we have is economic contracts between electricity companies, the oil and gas complex, and I had to make a million, two, but we already have about 80 million contracts for the next year in the fuel and energy complex in every direction. And I'm ready to show you, to show you. As for academic science, you may be right, it needs to be financed even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u156	Written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u157	And then we ended up with two of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u158	There are no letters. Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u159	Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine. Dear Yuri Anatolievich, I have questions for you in the coal industry, but I am addressing you because you are the Minister of Fuel and Energy. This summer, you know, there was a critical situation in the coal industry, the coal produced by the power plants wasn't used at the warehouses, so let's say the Donetsk region had 200 thousand tons of fossilized and the Lugansk region had 140,000 tons. You're well aware that coal companies have a lot of losses, taxes, unsupplied lava, so to speak. How do you plan to get out of this situation this year? And the second question. I'd like to hear from you in response, we have a big problem today, along with everything else, with training. You know, we wouldn't have planned, especially in the coal industry, privatization issues, property reform, but we have so much footage today, that whatever we're planning, you know, it depends very much on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u160	Thanks for the fall. That's an interesting question. Indeed, we have accumulated more than 400,000 tons at the beginning of the work of the Government of the Anti-Crist Coalition. At the warehouses, and the main problem was that we had unbalanced payments. So we almost didn't pay for that coal and coal enterprises, seeing that debt growth was progressing, stopped shipping. Therefore, the priority steps taken by the Ministry of Coal, together with us, were order and financial balance in this regard. I believe that we have managed to remedy the situation in many ways, although some problems remain, but in general we have had a 9-month performance calculation and, in general, what has been corrected in the last three months has increased by 98.9 per cent. And now we have another problem, we're running out of coal. We are now working closely with the Ministry of Coal to work together to raise production. The order of the calculation is given here. I believe that this was simply the weakness of the verticality of power and the lack of a proper mechanism for defining.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u161	Please, Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u162	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” faction. My question is to some extent a continuation of the previous one that we heard from a colleague in a faction of regions. In the face of a significant reduction in natural gas consumption by Ukraine’s thermal power plants, coal demand is increasing. You have already given a partial status assessment. But, as I know, as of January 1st of the following year, the coal contracts with electricity-generating companies in the state-owned coal company end. What additional use will you take for what you have already told and, what policy in Minpalevenergo on fuel supply of thermal power plants? And let me ask you one more question. Like you, as a minister, you can guarantee a seamless supply of gas under conditions where agreements between commercial structures are in place and there are no inter-government, inter-State arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u163	Thank you for the interesting question. Well, of course, we will continue to work with the Coal of Ukraine, because, we believe, when a state company has the appropriate influence and conducts a centralised technical policy on improving coal quality, it is normal and we will certainly support it. Therefore, the contracts will be extended shortly. With regard to gas supply. We have, in fact, been separated from the State's gas transit activity from the purchase of gas in Ukraine, this is the world's European experience, in general, there are no precedents in Europe for the State to control the purchase of gas, through its inter-State regulations or agreements. Therefore, as we approach the European community, we take to the European Union the best that there is in the European Union and those agreements that we have as a reliable guarantee of our energy security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u164	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u165	Mr. Secretary, after the difirambs to your address from Oleg Kalashnikov, I would like to ask you about your attitude towards freedom of the press. But that's not what we're talking about today. Please tell us whether the documents we have signed with the European Union envision Ukraine's entry into the EEC energy system. If so, what does the situation with Russia look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Well, we do have very close cooperation with the European Union. And first of all, technically, and we're using the experience they have. But that doesn't mean that we're going to give up centralized dispersion in our country, and in fact, on November 4th, when there's no light left, about 10 million people in Europe have shown us all the flaws in that system, and we will certainly only take the best that they have and the best that is in the SND. And this is our centralized control system. So the question is to balance the technical capabilities of our own, including our export capabilities at fixed current rates, some other technical devices. But to do things that we think will violate our energy stability that we have seen recently in Europe. And I just want to say that any experience he needs, including with Russia, there's also a negative experience in Russia, we see in what state
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u167	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u168	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Mr. Minister, during the election campaign, you told people that $95,000 per thousand of cubes is a catastrophic price for the country. Today you say that 130 dollars per thousand cubes is our victory. But that's a rhetorical question. And now it's practical for a statesman and a great Ukrainian, as your coalition colleagues call you here. What does he earn for every thousand cubes, put in his pocket "Rosukrenerego"? Let the Ukrainians and the Ukrainians hear your answer. How much cheaper would the gas be if the relationship between us and Russia, or Turkmenistan, were made without intermediaries? And please tell me if the actual information that's been going on for a long time is that you have a direct attitude towards becoming a mediator in Ukraine, particularly the “Roskreenergo”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u169	Well, your question, with all due respect to you as a national deputy, is that as professional issues go to the surface of public discussion, that's exactly the situation we have. That you don't understand anything and tell people the truth. So let me tell you that I left the government of Yanukovitch to the state two years ago: contracts five years ahead with Russia for 26 billion cubic metres of Russian gas at $50, and not a penny of debt to Turkmenistan and 35 billion cubes from Turkmenistan for a direct contract. Now look what we got today, three months ago. We got a $95 gas price signed for six months, and the transit rate was fixed in the January 4 deal for five years. If there is anyone there who is to blame, if the Prime Minister is looking after the fate of the country's gas and energy security, he must, first of all, take the opportunity to communicate with the prime ministers of those countries with which he works, Russia and Turkmenistan. If that was not the case, what can be expected. We had what we had.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u170	Let me finish. Keep going. Yuri Anatolyovich, continue the interesting question, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u171	Now, with regard to questions about the price of gas there, 95 or 130 dollars. Indeed, when we looked at the January 4 deal with these misunderstandings, the transit rate for five years, and the price for 95 for six months, the Januković government was given a situation in which the previous government of representatives in Turkmenistan was no longer allowed, even the visa was refused, and there was a question of what to do next. If we go directly as you said in Gazprom, this is a normal situation, we can go, get $235, and wait for a shocking situation for our industry. That's exactly the situation you're pushing society into. And that's why we have today, I think, the most commercially attractive contract for a country, if we compare it to a court of law, I'm not talking about Europe, where we get 130 dollars of gas. I've already told you, it's all in comparison. 95 was worse than the $50 that the Yanukovitch government had two years ago, but today 130 to three years in advance is better than 95 to six months without any prospect that was a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u172	Have a seat, please. Thank you. Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u173	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies and Members of the Government! The issue of coal is a subject of constant attention and control by the Supreme Council’s Preparatory Committee. Of course, coal is the main energy source in Ukraine that guarantees the energy security of the state, and this is consistently highlighted in the policy documents for the forward-looking development of the energy sector, particularly in the energy strategy by 2030. I view today's government as the principle of talking about the main ways of reducing the imported state's gas dependence. Only the maximum reliance on its own energy, including coal itself, can guarantee the pace of economic growth and the decline in critical energy imports, which unfortunately will remain oil and gas for Ukraine for a long time. I would like to emphasize that the rise in world natural gas prices is taking place in the background of relatively stable coal prices, which enhances the competitiveness of coal-fired thermal power plants and stimulates the development of non-traditional and renewable energy sources. Therefore, the advantage in the fuel structure for energy production in Ukraine should be given to coal itself, which will ensure some fuel stability and increase the country’s energy security. Regrettably, however, numerous hearings about the coal sector, including in this room, have not provided positive dynamics in solving the problems of the sector. And it was a great desire for us to finally set the priorities for further development of the coal industry in an unmistakable way today. For some reason, the level of coal production is considered the primary indicator for many governments and industry leaders. This figure increased by up to one percent in nine months of the current year, compared with the corresponding period last year. Is that how the branch came out of the crisis or not, thanks to this? It may not be easy to say, but perhaps not yet. This is because much less attention is given to other basic techno-economic, financial-economic and manufacturing indicators that characterize the efficiency of its work. The most important of these are: first, the productivity of the production capacity. Over the past few years, this rate has increased by just a few percent. This year, for example, the pressure on the active discharge increased by 8.6 percent. However, in other countries where the reform process was similar, the rate of increase was 50 percent, 75 percent, and more. Second, it's the concentration of extracted coal. It changes very little compared to past years and is now 38.8 percent. And it's decreased by only 6.4 percent over the current period. Then there's the loan and the receivable. The current receivable is more than one and a half billion dollars, payable 6.7 billion dollars. That's right. That is, the difference in debt is five billion dollars. Both debt rates have decreased significantly compared to those of previous years. Yet they are huge and bear witness to the heavy financial sleep of the field. The cost of one ton of commodity coal production is steadily increasing. This year, this figure rose from over 32 percent, from 310 to 330 dollars per tonne. This means that the more we extract coal from existing tech-economics, the more damage we will bring to the industry. So, first, and foremost, we need to dramatically increase the efficiency of the industry. Secondly, it has long been necessary to solve one of the key problems -- to increase the efficiency of industry management, which is constantly complicated by numerous and unjustified restructurings. First the ministries are created, then they're eliminated, then they're re-created. We need to finally make a fundamental and final determination. Third. Determination of quantity, state support for coal, determination of the amount of government support for coal. In Ukraine this is the main stumbling block for the adoption of the State Budget each year. In order to improve the effectiveness of State support, it is necessary to reform the system itself. State support should not distort economic competition in the coal sector and the adjacent sectors of energy and metallurgy. So we need to move away from the comparison and manual distribution of government funds to all carbon dioxide companies in comparison. One of the most important elements of the State Development Programme should be given to the system of support, and it should be clear that both the scope and the deadline for providing such support to specific enterprises should be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u174	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u175	Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I'm on my way, so if you don't mind, just a few more minutes. Fourthly, an alternative to an effective coal pricing mechanism should be a market-based mechanism based on world prices, appropriate coal brands, and alternative fuels. Fifthly, it is imperative that we demolish the supply of mining equipment. Only the introduction of basic market conditions in the field will allow coal enterprises to be privatized successfully because a simple change in the ownership of the State in no way solves the problems of the sector. There is certainly no way to give priority to coal without increasing the level of safety and safety of work in the field, social and environmental problems. These are the issues that I have reported to you and other questions that you have been able to get to know in a draft decision that is registered and appropriately distributed to you in the session room, so this is the position of the committee, the committee has worked in detail on all these issues with the ministries of profile, both with the Ministry of Coal Industry and with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u176	Thank you. Who would like to express themselves if there is a need to express themselves? Yes. Please sign up. And I suggest that we take a break and take a decision that you have on your hands. Murderer. Follow him, Widow. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, Mordovian handed him the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I will not touch on any questions of technology or economics, I would like to touch on the rules exclusively on social policy and work, speaking from the committee in the discussion of this issue. And I'd like to say the following. First. When we consider this question, we should refer to the wages of miners. Today, it has not been able to withstand criticism in comparison with their colleagues in the European Union, and we are talking about the way to Europe and membership in this organization, or in other fields, even though we know how hard it is to work in coal mines, and that the need to restore even the workforce requires much more money. So as we plan to increase wages in different areas, we also have to take into account in the State Budget project next year, and in general, the need to accelerate the increase in wages for miners compared to other workers in other sectors of the national economy. The second is to increase security control, because the pursuit of income, the maximum amount of coal, and very often the neglect of security technology, which is complex and diverse, leads to numerous human casualties, so by implementing the recommendations of our hearings, we should also mean this, this moment. Thirdly, concern for the social and social sphere, because mining villages are said to be urban settlements and everything is kept there, and the social sphere, and the social sphere, and everything else, is kept in mines and so on. So without State support, there is no need for State support. Fourth, it's the pension of miners, in general, the care of miners who are on merited rest, that is, the care of miners' guards. And last of all, I think we have to do another bicycle in many cases. It has long been invented, has been the experience of maintaining support for this field in the Soviet era. We need to get him armed to the maximum extent possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u178	The word is given by Widowenko Hennaday Josephovich, followed by Simonenko, instead of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u179	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, I wanted to continue one of the talks today about the problems in the coal industry that began back in the Soviet Union. To me, Vladimir Vasilovich Szczerbický, do not nod your head; he did not tell you, but Vladimir Vasilovich Szhrbický said to me personally: “Ukraine is located, the leading industries of Ukraine are metallurgical and coal, in deep crisis. I write, I write, I write, I write, I write, I write, I write, I write, I write: “No money, Peter Mikolaiovich. Everything is going to defend itself." We have deepened these woes that we inherited from that system. Every year we give a big grant to miners. Where does this grant go? And each year they walked and rightly demanded satisfaction from governments or government members. It's in the coal industry. We need to go through the modernization and privatization of the coal industry, otherwise we can't find a way out. The second question is gas. I'm going to say the unpopular phrase: we've sucked into a Russian pipe and we've been sucking gas for 15 years, stealing it. True, it's called an unsanctioned gas selection. We are not looking for alternative sources of oil and gas supply. We should not blame Russia, Peter Mikolaiovich, because they set such high prices for us, we must do our own thing to ensure that Ukraine, first, alternative sources of oil and gas supply, second, energy-saving technologies, third, does not allow unauthorized oil and gas selection. And last of all, the turnip. I pressed the button because the ministers wanted to speak. In Russian, it's a rap, if you don't know. Baranowski told me that Ukraine can sow a million acres. And we could provide ourselves largely with this biofuel. We don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything, we don't do anything in the government, I don't see an alternative source of oil and gas and we don't see the production of biofuels. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u180	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. You're such an experienced diplomat and you have a great word for it. I would ask you not to use the word “stolen” or it is taken quite literally and purposefully. You need to speak more correctly. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u181	My colleagues and respectable voters. As you can see, the very dangerous trend today is dilettarianism and the lack of all professionalism in discussing the main issue that concerns everyone today — how to warm up the home. So once I'm convinced from this rostrum that the coal that some people care about today has even forgotten what coal is in our country. Coal is a guarantee of energy, economic and political independence. In short, coal will virtually save Ukraine if Ukraine saves the coal industry today. What am I talking about? We must conclude today that, for 15 years in politics, as my previous speaker put it, it was simply a disregard for the coal industry. And once again, in organic fuel, we have 95 per cent of coal today, 100 years ahead. So professionals have the notion of a three-pronged task: coal fund, technology, and people. Let us try briefly at least to identify some issues. It's a cashier's fund. The previous speaker here spoke of some Soviet reality. I'll remind you. In 1991, the coal mine was 195 million tons. Today, I think it's 2.5 times less than it was in 1991. It's 1,300 lions. It's 308. And almost under the control of Minogleprom 247. 1500 kilometers per year were mined, today to 266. 50 mines have only one lava today. 17 mines don't have any lava at all. I would like once again to remind a speaker who does not know what he was talking about in front of me. At the age of 60, we built 30-35 mines a year. This has been so invested in the development of Ukraine's homeland. Next, in terms of technology. I would like to reiterate your attention, my fellow Members, on a very serious matter. 7,000 fixed equipment units and two thirds of these stationary equipment are not available and should not be used today. It's the main fans, it's the mine lifts, it's the main water drain, that's what makes the coal plant viable. And if we're talking about people, today the miners are 17th place on the payroll. 1 million worked, and today 330. They've practically shut down the miners' training. What should be the solution? First. Stop any attempt to reorganize the coal industry, as they were. Since 91, we have been engaged in annual reorganization. Reestablish a three-unit control system: Minogleprom, merger and mine. Next. We need to determine how much coal we need and how much we need to finance to have this coal today. I also propose today to take very seriously the issue of State funding and to exclude the possibility of the influence of the same mediators. Thus, we will and will ensure a public approach to the basic industry, the coal industry and the Ukrainian industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u182	Mikhail Volintz. Follow him, Zweigilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, if we look closely at the structure of energy carriers in coal, oil and gas, we'll see that coal is 67%, oil is 18%, gas is 15%. What is the picture in Ukraine? In Ukraine, 95.6% is coal, oil is 2%, and gas is only 2.4%. In addition, Ukraine has a huge supply of storm coal. And for example, these stocks are located in the Zitomir region, Kyivsky, Vinnitsky, Cherkaske, Kirovograd, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik, Poltavski, Kharkiv, Donetsk and many other areas. There are also ten areas where the peat is produced, although there are also other areas. And, as we understand, there is no alternative to the manufacturing industry in Ukraine against the rising price of oil and gas imports. But here the minister was stressing, and the question was that the problem in the coal sector is quite serious and it has been emerging for many and many years. And society needs to understand that today we need to make every effort to get the sector out of crisis and to provide our own energy, which means to ensure that our country is energy-efficient. But here today the minister said that in 2007 coal production is projected to increase to 82.2 million tons. But if we look at the dynamics, in the last half a year and the last months, coal production continues to decline. And I'm not going to blame the entire last government for leading up to this. But there is a fact that the fall takes place dynamically. And that's why we have to give the right assessment, not say that we're going to build and build a new mine every year. I've already argued in my question that it's impossible, that mines need to be designed over a few years, and then built in Ukrainian terms from 5 to about 10 to 15 years as it does with 10 Novovolinsky and many others. And that's why experts today need to specifically talk about this situation. Regarding the concept of coal development, which is now in the project and which has not been mentioned today. So what I'm stressing is that the focus is on privatization, but it's also meant to bring legislation to the world's parameters, that is, and, including increasing the price of coal to the world's standards. The question is why the price today is not brought to world standards when the state finances the coal industry, and the metallurgical barons are now being enriched by the cheap coal that is being mined in Ukraine. So we're going to rob the coal sector. And we should also note today that today the Ministry of Coal is making every effort to get coal mines in the hands of a financial and industrial group that too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u184	Thank you. Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u185	Dear Alexanderovich! Dearly-respected are those who are present. One third of our mines extract from 100 to 500 tons of coal per day, another quarter from 500 to 1,000 tons. This is due, not to natural factors, but to the overall management of the industry. With such a load, even in modern technology, it is not possible to generate profitable production, it is necessary to bring small mines together with large mines where possible, to concentrate production on globally reduced management and support costs. At the same time, the Government needs to clarify the energy strategy and in the future rebuild the mines with sufficient resources and build new mines with 3 million and more tons a year. Second. The prestige of mining has fallen sharply. The staff are getting older. The average age of underground workers is close to the pension. There are 30,000 in the industry. One of them is 20,000. Subterraneans. The level of wages does not correspond to the gravity, value and risk of miners. At the level of wages, miners are at the end of the second dozen sectors of our country's population. The situation is compounded by a frequent policy increase in minimum wage, which is contrary to economic laws, is not linked to the results of work, does not reflect the level of productivity, does not reflect the standards of production, and leads to a reduction in profits or the failure to pay higher wages, which are not provided by sources. Third. More than 80 per cent of Minugleprom's lost mines remain the main source of wage increases. Given the limited budget, the efficiency of its use must be improved and the release of funds directed towards higher wages. To do this, first of all, the dating of the separate mine has to be stopped. And, Alexander Alexandrovich, I ask you to record this statement as mine. Secondly, support for technical re-arms in the form of a free gift must be given away. Crediting specific activities, such as equipping new lavas, preparing ramifications, improving underground transport, ventilation systems and others, through the recovery of mine credits through the effects of the increase in mining. The interest shall be paid from the budget, regardless of the form of ownership. Fourth. The strategic direction should be the integrated degasification of methane gas mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u186	You're almost there, one minute. We'll give you a chance to continue. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u187	It will improve security, reduce the limitation of gas production, switch to its own energy supply, increase cost-effectiveness and obtain funds from the implementation of the emission allowance under the Kyoto Agreement. With small amounts of methane, group power plants should be built for several mines. Fifth. Imports of coal from Russia, Kazakhstan is growing. During the nine months of this year, the export of coke stamps exceeded 5.8 million tons. But the State is not taking measures to protect the domestic coal industry. If this situation persists, the industry is in danger of bankruptcy. From the point of view of energy security, the WTO must take all possible means of protecting the coal industry from death. And in conclusion. In preparing for mass privatization, the specificities of individual enterprises cannot be taken into account. For example, during 14 years of renting a mine called West 85 per cent of its property became the property of a tenant group. The ransom. An additional 250 million are needed for the public share, which cannot be paid once. Attempts under existing legislation to find a solution acceptable to the 25,000-strong tenant community, even in favour of Kabmin, the State Facility and the Minugleprom, have not yielded results. In such cases, to ensure that the collectives do not decide on their own property, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of buying public property for a period of up to five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-14-m0.u188	Thank you, Yuhim Leonidovich. Prepare a bill to protect the investment of tenants. This applies to both coal and agriculture, and anywhere. So I don't think the tenant is afraid to invest his capital in production. Now, honourable Members, we have concluded this discussion and have heard the information of the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee prepared a draft ruling on this subject. I would like to take it as a basis and put it to a vote. Please. [[2:05:44]] For 282 Decision taken. There are suggestions made by Yuhim Leonidovich and other colleagues. Let's ask. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, work on this decision and put it to a vote on Thursday or on Friday, the best on Thursday. Is there no objection? None. A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning session is adjourned. I'm asking you to come in for 16 hours in an orderly fashion, and a very important question is being considered.
