ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, we're registering. [[10:01:25]] There are 437 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear National Deputies! On December 15, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26 of this year in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Sokola Andrija Aleksijovich, who was included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sokil Andriy Aleksyyovich, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u3	Yes, welcome. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! According to the 25th article of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present the factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Yes, the entry is done. Since we have 30 minutes and 5 factions, there is a proposal to vote in favour of allowing us to speak for five minutes, I'm putting this proposal to the vote so that factions don't speak for three minutes, as in the Rules, but five minutes. Please vote. [[10:04:02]] For 312 The decision is made by the time of the factions from the factions of five minutes. Please, Jaroslav Mendus, a faction of socialists, to prepare Davemuk is being handed over to Zebravski. Please, to the side of John Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u4	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I am authorized to make a statement to the Supreme Council of the Fifth Assembly on the anti - crisis coalition of MPs. On the eve of a review of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget, an anti-crisis coalition of MP factions states: The government took all the constructive proposals of the head of state into account. Therefore, delaying it is nothing more than a desire to make the country's economic situation worse, to create social tension and dissatisfaction with the aim of discrediting the government and the ruling parliamentary coalition. Who would benefit from that? Certainly not a society that would like to meet the New Year and celebrate Christ’s Christmas with a good holiday mood, an undisturbed threat of a return to instability and uncertainty tomorrow. Meanwhile, the President's environment recommends that the head of state give the people such a “gift” under the tree. The head of state seems to have a sincere desire to improve the welfare of our citizens. However, if that were the case, the President would have to be the first to support the budget, which was not based on the principle of "how it will be" but to get Ukraine's economic policy out of the populist swamp. As a supporter of Ukraine's euro-integrated aspirations, the president should welcome government actions aimed at expanding production, introducing new technologies, creating a competitively capable economy. He would take into account the world of Central-Eastern European states, particularly Poland, whose leading policies have strongly rejected any populism. They understood that getting the economy out of stagnation required political will and time. The will is not to be afraid to take responsibility for difficult, sometimes unpopular reforms. It is time to lay a sound foundation for future economic growth without leaving behind a permissive part of society that may suffer from the invisible hand of the market. The antichrist coalition and its government demonstrate the existence of these two components, success and responsibility for their actions. We've proposed a budget that would take into account the possibility of introducing innovative innovation solutions in the economy and providing the least protected types of people with a real cost of living. Bank's statements that the 2007 budget is antisocial are false. To be sure of this, life will quickly demonstrate the wisdom of the government’s calculations. The ideaology of social protection for citizens in the 2007 budget is well thought out. Indeed, vulnerable populations will be helped by increasing spending on social transfers, subsidies, benefits, other forms of social benefits, including tariff increases. If, in 2006, everyone who had the right to receive subsidies and benefits through the social transfer system was entitled to a monthly allowance. Social guarantees amounting to 23-24 dollars, so in 2007, if they were to adopt the budget, they would be 40-46 dollars a month. In addition, the income-indexing mechanism automatically ensures that social payments are recalculated according to consumer price changes once inflation reaches 101 percent. Citizens should also know that the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 contain the Government's mandate, in case of unforeseen deviations from macroeconomic development indicators, to make proposals to the Supreme Council on the necessary changes to social standards. It is thus quite clear that the ideologies and priorities of the budget next year are aimed both at stabilizing the financial and economic situation in the country, raising social standards and living standards for people, and at restoring the innovation and investment model of development and preparing structural reforms. Retracting at the time of the entry into force of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the seventh year will cause the welfare of citizens to fall because the income and social assistance paid at the average monthly cost of 2006 will not correspond to the new prices and tariffs. The question is, Why do we do this? The answer is simple: The goal of those who block the adoption of the budget is to dissolve the Supreme Council, abolish political reform, and return to times when it was not necessary to adopt laws in Parliament, and they were successfully replaced by Presidential decrees. The Anti-Crist Coalition calls on the guarantor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Pavlov Zebravsky, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. Get ready for Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, today the Crisis Coalition will try to re-vote the budget, the so - called revised budget. What is he so real about, and what do so many talk about? And today I find it very unpleasant that socialists are advocating for the business component of the budget, not for the social part. For the first time, communists and socialists are actually protecting not the people of employment, not the most vulnerable types of the population, before it was just populism, and now even populism has already hidden theirs, and for the first time, they are serving a large capital and, in fact, the business that is done through the budget. I would like to point out that the proposal, no Presidential proposal to increase social expenditure, was accepted by the budgetary committee yesterday. It was the only norm -- which was voted last week in the session hall on the limitation of pensions to national MPs -- that was approved. What does that mean? First of all, when we listened to the rhetoric of the crisis coalition in an attempt to overcome the veto, they talked about the fact that the President's Secretariat and the President didn't provide income and expenditure accounts that needed to be directed towards raising the subsistence minimum. Yesterday, the Budget Committee was provided with perfect, scrupulous calculations, according to which the budget's income from raising the subsistence minimum, the minimum wage increases substantially. And in fact, redistribution through the budget needs only 837 million dollars. Everything else is sufficient in the budget to execute all provisions on raising the minimum wage and minimum wage. But it is so necessary not to love your people, so it is not necessary to love the retirement allowance so as not to make the calculation known at all! As a matter of fact, the charges yesterday were the only ones: towards the President's representatives. Initially, they were required to make calculations, and then they were told that they had no right to grant such calculations to the Committee on Budgets. I would like to point out that today we are not talking about the economics being so heated by the so-called investment projects that are proposed in this budget. In fact, for the following year, gross domestic product is projected to grow by only six and a half percent when we already have 8.7 percent in November. So it's about slowing down the growth rate of the gross domestic product, not its growth. Again, what's the difference between the Ukrainian people and GDP growth if the pockets are empty? I apologize: the budget for the people, not the people for the budget, the economy for the people, not the people for the economy. We've been through this since the Ukrainian people rebuilt the country in the '40s. But then there was war, then there was destruction. I don't know how we can justify today's desire to target the business projects of Borispolski, Donetsk Airports, the creation of a non-state pension fund -- and not want this money to target the most vulnerable to the population. The cynicism with which the President today says that he does not want to sign the budget, the President is willing to sign the budget, but not anything, but not the kind that the crisis wants, but the kind that will benefit the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, today we will see the theater of absurdity when crisisors vote and talk about how good they are, how no compromises are, how good they are. If you remember, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz suggested that the working group should work on the calculations made by the President’s representatives. The Prime Minister is speaking, saying that the President’s secretariat does not want to work in this group or any letter or address to the secretariat. So there's only one desire to push, to show who's in the landlord's house. I know you'll never be the masters of the house, the Ukrainian people won't let you do that. Our business is right, the Ukrainian people are with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u7	Yes, calm down, dear fellows, calm down. In December, you can quote Stalin because his birthday, just in December, is a pleasure. Please, Alexandrovska Alla, Communist faction. Get ready, Kurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u8	You know, I personally, as a member of the Communist Party of Ukraine, am pleased to know that the role of a person such as Stalin is still important and relevant today is cited here, in this room of his statement, his position. But I want to speak to the Communist faction a little bit on another issue. In 1945 Nazism was defeated, and Nazi organizations were criminalized, including the Waffen SS organization. Beat the idea of humanism, democracy, patriotism. The propaganda of Nazism, national intolerance and hatred have become criminal. The first step was taken towards a modern understanding of human rights. In Ukraine, however, a senior official, the President, is currently pursuing a policy aimed not only at the rehabilitation of Hitlerese aid workers, soldiers from UN-OPA, but also at the promotion of them. At the same time, the President is entitled to impose his own assessments on all the people of Ukraine, which are far from truth and history. The people of Ukraine cannot accept this. All over Ukraine, there is a protest against such actions by the President, and an example of such protest is the request of the Kharkiv Regional Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of the rehabilitation of Hitler's Nazi organizations and their associates, which was adopted on 15 December this year at the session of the Kharkiv Regional Council by an overwhelming majority of the votes of the members of the Regional Council. And I would like to address you with the text that was adopted at the session of the Kharkiv Regional Council: “President Yushchenko, by his decree number 879, commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to draft a bill on Ukrainian liberation movement, pre-determining the activities of the UN-OPA with the Ukrainian liberation movement, thus effectively comparing the members of the UN-OPA with the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Expressing the will of most voters, the Kharkiv District Council calls on us not to allow the national disgrace and humiliation of the feat of our parents and grandfathers who gave their lives for the liberation of Ukraine from Hitler’s Nazism, to prevent the memory of millions of civilians killed, tortured, mutilated by the hands of fascists and their manuals from the U.N. and the U.S.A.A. The International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg sentenced the Nazi regime of Germany, confessed to the criminal organizations of the SD, the SA and the SS, convicted the main war criminals, whose actions, in accordance with the statute of the Tribunal, were recognized as crimes within the jurisdiction of the tribunal and who bear individual responsibility. These are crimes against peace, war crimes are crimes against humanity that are of no age. The evidence at the trial, the archival materials and the testimony of the eyewitnesses, is undeniably evidence that UN-UPA, along with the criminal structures of Nazi Germany, committed terrible crimes in Ukraine. Thousands of Ukrainians, Jews, Poles, and Belarusians died at their hands. The organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, welcoming the fascist invaders on Ukrainian soil, has declared close cooperation with national-socialist Germany under the leadership of Adolf Hitler and associated with the German army of the Ukrainian army against the Moscow occupation, so-called. The U.N. Nationalists created the Nachtigal and Roland punitive battalions, and then the U.S.-Gallicin shooting division, which coordinated their criminal activities with the UPA. When members of the UPA and the UN, their political followers and guardians claim that they allegedly fought on two fronts -- both Soviet and Hitlerian regimes -- they actually publicly recognize themselves as textbooks of Hitler's Nazism, criminals, because the international military tribunal condemned war against the Soviet Union by identifying criminals of all those who took part in it. Unfortunately, there is an attempt in Ukraine today to rehabilitate the UN and the UPA, and this is not an internal matter of Ukraine, this is a challenge to international law in the world community, which is still doing everything today to prevent the rehabilitation and rebirth of fascism and Nazis. We call upon you, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the President of Ukraine and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to request the drafting and adoption of laws to make it impossible to celebrate the Nazi movement and former members of the Waffen SS organization and to use the Nazi symbols and symbols of organizations that promote aggressive nationalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Stepan Kurpil, please, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Who? Julia Timoshenko, please. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u10	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. Of course, I was preparing a little something else, and I will definitely do it. But I can't help but react to a speech by a representative of the Communist faction who just broke out. I want everyone who's heard this speech to understand what's going on right now. That now both the Party of Regions and the Communists and the government of Yanukovich are trying to divert people's attention from what they face today in everyday life. Please tell me how to force the government of Yanukovich and the Anti-Crist Coalition to support when today is actually the full social destruction of people's lives? Real fall in pensions, wages, tariff hikes, spontaneous rise in prices for everything. How can we distract people from their immediate problems? Clearly, we need to talk about NATO, and that's why a referendum on NATO is now being held in Crimea to help people fight NATO, not in their lives. Why has a Communist Party member just returned us in the 45th year and started talking about opposition within our nation, raised a question that today raises resentment and opposition in various parts of our Ukrainian citizens just to think about not pensions, wages, tariffs and prices, but to start fighting again for values that are completely out of the ordinary people's lives today? And I want to tell you that today, by inducing artificial hatred of the UN UPA, by creating artificial hatred for all of our European aspirations, practically people are redirecting, Communists, “Regions” are directing the attention of the whole society to the other side. And I'd like you to be the ones who are listening to these propaganda things that happened today before I went out to this rostrum so as not to get caught on these hooks. Think about your life. You don't know when NATO is going to be, you don't know when we're going to have natural disasters there, you think about what's ruining your life today, not yesterday, not yesterday, not 70 years ago. As for today’s situation. Dear friends, on August 3, 2006, the President, the Prime Minister and the Anti-Crist Coalition signed the Universal, promising peace, harmony, unity, reconciliation, I do not know that 138 days have passed since this tragic date. Today we see stability, unity, reconciliation, and understanding. Today we can celebrate this holiday. And so I would like to make a statement on a completely different subject, and I would like to make a statement that today we have to find out that there is a full-scale political crisis with all its components. And above all, by such war, by all means, between the President and the Prime Minister, who is involved in the secretarial process of the government and the President, the Supreme Council involved, the Constitutional Court. Today, all governors are in this fight, including the members of the Supreme Council. Today, this fight destroys a country as it has not been destroyed even in the last ten years. The point is that we are suffering losses today that we are virtually unable to complete. The first is December 14 Angela Merkel, and Germany will head the European Union in the coming period, announced that there is no European perspective in Ukraine, publicly from the rostrum. And that's exactly the result of the chaos in the country. The other one. This is a fiscal crisis that is breaking up the country today, which is practically going to cause us to lose our financial stability. And a lot of other crises in the power structures, in the courts, in the governorates. I want to ask: is this what, what we were fighting for? And that's what the Universal actually had to do? And so it is urgent to bring the factions of factions in charge of the Supreme Council to a closed meeting and consult on how to curb war and begin to give birth to a peaceful and stable life for the country. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u12	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! On December 15, a significant and long - awaited meeting took place in Ukraine. The Council of the Anti-Crist Coalition and the government's leadership met with the President of Ukraine. The main topic of the discussion was proposed by representatives of the parliamentary majority. First of all, it was about establishing a constructive relationship between Parliament, the government and the President in new political conditions. The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that today the Supreme Council, formed in it by the parliamentary majority and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is a worthy example of the effective implementation of the mechanism of constructive cooperation. Working with the president’s team, particularly the President’s Secretariat, is a matter of great concern and concern. The President often signs decrees that are bound to be annulled either by his previous decrees or by the suspension and blocking of government decrees. Not only is the number concerned but the quality of these documents concerned, since most of them do not fit the basic legal standards. How can we sign the President's Order on the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Igor Drizcany, who has not yet been released from her post as Head of the SBA, according to the current Constitution, the Supreme Council, the deputy heads of the Security and Defence Council. There can be no decent prospect in the State if political relevance, when made public decisions, is superior to the law and the Constitution. It's not surprising, in principle, because the main theme of the crisis managers of the President's Secretariat is the dissolution of Parliament and the holding of early elections. Clearly, the heads of the secretariat plan their own political role and political future in a purely nonlegal way. Regrettably, but not deliberate or unbalanced decisions forcefully and purposefully push forward, and the President of Ukraine. But they need to understand clearly that whoever starts an adventure game about parliament's early release will push the country into presidential elections. Sometimes you have to read the classics, gentlemen, who plant the wind, the one who reaps the storm! Guess who's going to be the new president of Ukraine. The party of regions is strongly opposed to the holding of early elections both by Parliament and by the President. And it's not because she's afraid to lose this election, the election race, but because she's very sure she's going to win it. But at the same time, we understand very well that early elections next year are a significant step backwards and in the economic and social development of the country, an electoral year is a year of lost opportunities that will once again throw Ukraine back far in economic development. A completely fresh and illustrative example of government budget work for 2007. It shows the level of professionalism and responsibility of the so-called new team of presidential crisis managers. At first, the government's work on the budget of August 2006 was not met by the head of state with the government and the budgetary parliamentary committee. At the last minute, the President's secretariat, without having any responsibility for its economic workshop, decided to act as a national orderer and made a very short-sighted popular proposal, at the same time despite previous political arrangements. No specialist from the Presidential Administration has appeared to further develop the budget. Now they will appear before the press and tell stories to people. The faction of the Party of the Regions claims that it is not inclined to identify the position of the heads of the Secretariat of the President and of the President of Ukraine himself. Because during his meeting with the government and the council of the anti-crisis coalition, the President held a balanced state position that demonstrated political will and a desire to build relationships so that society would have a sense of stability and tranquillity. Under the terms of the agreement, the President of Ukraine, the government and the council of the anti-crisis coalition will meet every three weeks to maximize the synchronization of their actions and the adoption of agreed decisions. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on all political forces to cooperate constructively, to unite the entire political spectrum of Ukraine in the name of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. In conclusion, I would like to rephrase the quote of one of the outgoing prime ministers of the Royal Russia, Peter Stalin, “They need great shocks, and we need a free democratic, prosperous Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The exchange of thoughts, positions, suggestions, announcements, statements is over. A little clarification on what was not reported to the President's Secretariat and did not invite them to work on the drafting of the 2007 State Budget. This is not true, at least because yesterday I signed a telegram to the committee, an urgent telegram signed by the First Deputy Head of the President's Secretariat, Arsenija Yatsenuk, who on this telegram called specific names, specific telephones of officials authorized by the Secretary of the President to participate in the 2007 budget. I mean, once again, I'm telling you that this has been reported and how they've worked together, we'll see when we look at this issue. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A report by the National Deputy Kalashnikov O.I., who held a meeting on 12 July 2006 at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is being heeded. Reported to the head of the commission of inquiry, Kupil Stepan Volodymyrovich. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u14	Honorary National Deputies, the interim commission of inquiry to prevent the professional activities of the WST journalists by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kalashnikov O.I., which took place on 12 July 2006, was established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 14 September 2006. The personal composition of the commission was approved on October 5. The commission included representatives of all parliamentary factions: two from the BUT factions and our Ukraine factions and seven from the anti-crisis coalition. [[Next TSC Shortened]] A total of six TSC meetings took place. Four of the cases that were opened from the bottom were the incidents between Deputy Oleg Kalashnikov and TV newsmen Marina Sitnik and Volodymyr Novi Sad. The last two meetings were devoted to discussing and approving the commission’s report. In line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe for the Protection of Hurnalists in the face of conflict and pressure from 3 May 1996 on the physical safety of journalists and restrictions on the right to publicize events may take various forms, beginning with the capture of means of communication, ending with attempts to hinder work, detention, and murder. The member states of the Council of Europe must use all necessary means to bring responsibility to those responsible for these violations, regardless of whether they were planned, encouraged or executed by persons belonging to terrorist or other organizations, persons working for government or other public authorities, or persons acting for their own discretion. The conflict between Deputy Kalashnikov and the journalists of the SSB has gained great resonance in society. On this point were made by President Yushchenko of Ukraine, leader of the Janukovic Party of Regions, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Moroz, representatives of the independent media community, the National Press Association of Ukraine, political public figures and ordinary people. In particular, Victor Yushchenko stated that it was unacceptable for a national MP to allow himself to interfere with the work of journalists. Alexander Moroz noted that this incident went beyond normal logic. On July 17, 2006, Kalashnikov announced that he would insist that he be expelled from the party of the national deputy Kalashnikov because his conduct was incompatible with the position of the Party of the Regions on the media. Deputy Prosecutor of Kyiv Shevchenko reported that the Prosecutor’s Office of the Pechersky district of Kyiv was investigating a criminal case filed on July 14, 2006, on the basis of the fact that the legal professional activities of the WST journalists had been impeded. The trial in a criminal case is ongoing. At the time of the report of the commission, there is no suspect or accused MP Kalashnikov. He is a witness, and journalists Sitnik and Novosad are recognized as victims. Admitted to be injured. Journalists of the TV channel “STB” commented on the incident and explained that on July 12 Sitnik and Novosad were attending a rally at the invitation of the Party of Regions. After an interview with Kalashnikov, they went through a tent town to the people where they received food vouchers. Kalashnikov approached them and asked them to stop shooting with a reference to the fact that this is the territory of the Party of the Regions. Journalists showed the deputy the accreditation of the Supreme Council and the invitation of the Party of the Regions. Then there was an acute dialogue, which the operator began to record. After realizing this, Oleg Kalashnikov demanded that the tape be returned. And when the press refused, he grabbed the operator's T-shirt, pulled on himself. At the time, the MPs tried to take the camera away from the camera operator, others dragged the journalist away from the operator, and the operator himself hit something in the head, pulled the tape out of the camera. According to a forensic study of July 12, 2006, Journalist Novosad found bodily damage that qualified as light. On July 17, Ukraine’s national deputy Kalashnikov made a statement to the media, stating: “I am injuring the incident that took place on July 12, 2006, in a tent town near the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was attended by me and the filming group of the TV channel ‘STB’. I am very sorry that my excessive emotionality, which has been fueled by nervous stress and heat, has led to a conflict that has made the professional activity of the filming group more difficult.” At the first TSK meeting on October 11, and in writing, Oleg Kalashinkov expressed his position in this way: “On my part, as a citizen and as a national deputy of Ukraine, no illegal act or any attempt has been made to impede the professional activity of journalists of the ‘STB’. But with reference to article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I would like to point out that the charges against my address cannot be based on assumptions or any evidence obtained illegally. On July 12, 2006, he explained that he led a rally of supporters of the Antichrist Coalition. During a break at the Kalashnikov rally, he passed through the technical site to the followers of the Party of Regions and saw a young man he did not know filming on a large camera, in his view, in order to receive shocking footage for another sensation: the underwear of the girls who danced at that time on the podium, - and made a comment out loud: “Don’t do this!” From Kalashnikov's words, 10 minutes later, a young girl grabbed his hand and shouted, “Where is my operator?” Yes, Kalashnikov considers the July 12, 2006, incident to be a provocation. As to whether there was an incident to prevent the professional activity of journalists, the views of members of the TSC differ. Yes, Commissioner Kurpil, Secretary of Prokopovich and members of the Chevchenko, Filindash, Gerasimük, Hussarov have held the position that the incident had such signs. So that's what most members of the Interim Investigation Commission think. The interim commission of inquiry believes that Kalashnikov’s conduct at the time of the incident deserves to be condemned. A member of the Hussarov Commission believes that the final assessment of the event under consideration by the commission is premature and should only be made after the investigation has been completed. The deputy head of the Popescu TSK gave the commission the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions regarding an event that was under consideration by the commission. According to a letter from the first deputy head of the Kiselov Party, a meeting of the political council of the Party of the Regions was held in which the decision was taken. Following the completion of the work of the law enforcement authorities to deal with this incident, appropriate measures will be taken in accordance with the rules of the existing legislation by the MPs of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the work of the commission and the report, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been prepared. The draft decree provides for: first, the report of the interim commission to be made known; secondly, the conduct of the Ukrainian national deputy Kalashnikov Oleg Ivanovic during the incident on 12 July 2006 at the Ukrainian Supreme Council house is unacceptable and requires condemnation. And here I would add an editorial that comes out of the report of the commission, after these words, the incident between the journalists of the STB and the national deputy of Kalashnikov has signs of obstruction of professional journalistic activity. Paragraph three, he also needs to be reformed after consultation with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. The editorial is: “to call on the prosecutor of Kiev to speed up the objective consideration of events in criminal proceedings 561316”. It is proposed to amend the following: “The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to facilitate the completion of the comprehensive and objective trial of case number 56-1316 in the shortest term by the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev”. And paragraph 4: “to suspend the mandate of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to prevent the professional activities of the WST journalists by the national deputy of Ukraine Kalashnikov, which took place on July 12, 200.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us probably, since this applies to our colleague, we will drift away from established customs when we listen to the report and make decisions. So let's be able to ask questions. Sign up, please, and perhaps if they are willing to speak. Please, who has the desire to ask questions? Yes, five minutes please, Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Your Honor, you have named the vote and the position of the members of the commission from the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc in "Our Ukraine." But you didn't say anything about how the members of the crisis coalition behaved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u17	Thank you. I noted in a report that, along with representatives from the Commission of the Yulia Timoshenko Block and Our Ukraine, a similar position or similar position on the assessment of the incident is taken by deputies from the Socialist faction of Filindash and from the Husarov Party of Regions. As for the assessment of the incident, that incident has signs of obstruction of professional journalistic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u18	Please, Santa Petruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u20	Mikli Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u21	Stepan Volodymyrovich, as the author of the decision to create this commission, I would like to clarify a few very important points. It is about creating such an institutional tool before such conflicts are resolved in the future. The first thing I'm interested in is hearing such a loud and confident statement from the Attorney General a few months ago that the Attorney General's Office is a matter of honor for them, and they're going to make a report in two months and say what happened. Do you know what the Attorney General's Office was doing, where the investigation was, and so forth? And the second question is that there has been constant press coverage of some instructions coming to the investigator, and the Attorney General’s Office: since the issue is delicate, minimize and stop the investigation. So was there any pressure on the investigation in this case? Do you know anything about this as the head of the commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u22	We invited representatives of the prosecutor's office to the hearing, and we had a deputy prosecutor in Kiev Shevchenko, who reported that two persons were being questioned as victims, as witnesses of 77, and two eye rates, six reflections of the situation and the circumstances of the event, and two experts were assigned and conducted. Six credit cards, two copies of documents, three reviews were made. Separate assignments were sent to the prosecutor’s office in other areas of Ukraine. The prosecutor did not claim that some pressure was being exerted on the prosecution, even though these issues were being raised during the proceedings by our commission. Of course, the prosecutor’s office is very busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u23	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u24	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Stepan Volodymyrovich, after familiarizing himself with the draft resolution that was prepared, there remained an unwritten paragraph to apologize to this great lover of freedom for the words of Comrade Kalashnikov. But what I'm curious about is that there's a fixed concussion in the operator's brain, there's physical evidence -- a broken camera. Why is it so light, as it were, the light summation of the commission. All these actions are subject to article 171 of the Criminal Code? And this man has to sit on the bench for doing what he did. Next. Why the changed investigator on this matter? And if it doesn't require a commission, I demand a report from the Attorney General on this incident, because when we look at it, it's a simple matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u25	I think the Attorney General's Office would be able to report and would have had to report, because it's been six months, and we don't really know what's going on in this case. As for the evaluation of the report. We were thinking that this should be the report of the entire commission, not just the minority opposition on this committee. So some formulations are more compromiseable, slightly easier than the first version of the report. Moreover, the interim commission of inquiry is neither the prosecutor nor the court, so it cannot qualify from the point of view of the Criminal Code, the prosecutor’s office is involved and the criminal case is prosecuted. The important thing is that it is objectively investigated at the right time, but it is not being investigated at the right time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u26	Thank you, sit down, please. Sit down, Stepan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, if there are, well, first of all, he's asking for words, and I think we'll do the right thing if we give him three minutes, Oleg Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all the members of the Supreme Council who have not remained indifferent to this situation and I would like to express my thanks to all the members of the interim commission of inquiry. I didn't go to the rostrum to justify myself. I was called here by my civic position and primarily by the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly defines human rights and citizenship. I want to tell you, fellow citizens, that today, freedom of speech is and should be the main factor in the development of democracy in Ukraine. I am confirming this and stressing that I, Oleg Kalashnikov, have stood and will stand on this in order for Ukraine to be really a consolidated European world power. At the same time, I would like to point out that freedom of speech is not an independent element. It's an element that guarantees human rights, and just when freedom of speech is a tool for carrying out the genocide of a person, I'm speaking out and I'm going to speak out against it. Freedom of speech is an element that should enable the people of Ukraine to feel that human rights and citizens that are enshrined in the Constitution should take precedence. I am pleased that the individual operator, a television journalist, has stated that Oleg Kalashnikov has not done anything that has been reported to the media. Yes, Oleg Kalashnikov did not do anything that was distributed in the information space. This unreliable, untested, I would say, slanderous information and today it doesn't bother me personally, I've removed my ambitions, I'm worried about something else. I want every Ukrainian citizen, every average Ukrainian citizen, not to be blamed for anything. And I'm concerned about this, not my personal position or role, and I'm going to take responsibility and I'm going to take it again in this room, if it makes it possible to consolidate the Supreme Council, to consolidate Ukrainian society. I am fully in solidarity with the President of Ukraine, and I am fully in solidarity with the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, who condemned shameful acts. But the situation is different. I didn't do it. So, honourable colleagues, as I finish my introduction, I want to tell you from the bottom of my heart, I came to the party as a soldier of the party, and I came for an ideal reason. Whatever decision is taken, I will serve my people, the people of Ukraine, and I will do so honestly. I will serve, not serve, I have the honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I remind you, we've forgotten where we are, especially the journalists I'm talking to. You're all in the session room, not on the Main Independence or something. Everyone has the right to express what he wants, and you will express your opinion, but not with such screams as “Damn!” Dear colleagues! Shall we make a decision? Discuss? Give me ten minutes, sign up, please. Sign up. Since the four factions were registered, then 12 minutes, please, Mordovian, a faction of socialists. Prepare Jacob. Fillindash, please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u29	Dear national MPs, radio audiences, television audiences. First of all, I would like to point out that I belong to that part of the Interim Follow-up Commission, which thinks that our colleague's actions really had signs of obstruction of journalistic activity. You could argue about the motives of such actions by Oleg Kalashnikov, in a state of effect, as stated in his statement, summer heat and so on. But I think the fact that the incident took place didn't deny the summer and the deputy of Kalashnikov himself. And in the course of the work of our commission, we found that such action really took place. I think we can really use the exit tactics during the commission, Oleg Kalashnikov's entrance into the hot caste to avoid legal responsibility, we're not looking at it right now, it's not the Supreme Council's business, it's probably to consider legal responsibility. But you can't leave the responsibility of a moralist. Frankly, the moral-ethic component of the conflict is exactly what bothers me more than any legal substance can. I mean, including the damage that the deputy Kalashnikov is doing and the reputation of the Supreme Council and the reputation of the national deputy as a state institution. Everyone knows about the idea that is now artificially imposed on society, saying that they are covered in mandates, sat down, and create what they want. Yes, we have immunity, but we do not have impunity. And at least the ethical responsibility at our level, the parliamentary level, we have to make that assessment. And this, in my opinion, should be, most importantly, loud to the electorate. Let people know that we are, I repeat, untouchable, but not unpunished. In this sense, as a national deputy and as a former journalist, I would like to thank the solidarity and leader of the Socialist Party of the Supreme Council, Alexander Frost, and the leader of the Party of Regions, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic, who also gave his assessment this summer to the events that took place. By the way, I'm reminding you that while the national deputy Kalashnikov was talking about the towers, that there was nothing at all, the leader of the Party of Regions found the courage to personally apologize to the journalists of the STB channel and stressed that Kalashnikov's behavior was unacceptable. Therefore, in my opinion, Parliament must approve the report and the proposed draft decision of the Interim Investigation Commission to maximize the negative impact of this scandalous topic on the reputation of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u30	Thank you, Eugene. Only ex-journalists do not exist, they remain journalists for the rest of their lives Please, Jacob’s hand is from Olga Gerasimük. Prepare Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u31	Personally, I would not like to accept thanks from Mr. Kalashnikov for the report that was read here as much as I have the most unpleasant impression of working with him during the report and as we have understood all these circumstances. Yes, indeed, what happened under the walls of this house has not yet been legally evaluated, and this is the problem of the prosecutor’s office, which is delaying the investigation. And the prosecutor who came to us was absolutely not going to help the work of our commission. But, indeed, MPs are not supposed to replace the bodies of the investigation. But we have the right to condemn the actions that the Kalashnikov deputy has actually done about our colleagues. There was a strange situation when we were working on our commission, and she looked like you know what? At first Deputy Kalashnikov claimed that some events had taken place; then he took his words back; then, when he realized that he could take all the words back at all, he began to deny at all the fact of his presence then, during these events at the Supreme Council. And our conversations with him seemed very unconstructive: he was just pulling a blanket out of himself. Of course I'm a little bit surprised that STB journalists are being quite tolerant of themselves in this case, because they should be tougher on the demands of both the commission and the deputies, in the demands to treat them in the way that freedom of speech is required at last in our country. I am impressed by the position of Anna Hermann, my colleague, who immediately, after this happened, came to the press and said that she would never call Mr. Kalashnikov her colleague again. She also said that if the faction did not deprive him of his mandate, it would do so on its own. I'd hate for Mrs. Anna to leave this room, to be honest. So I think the party should give a very strict assessment of the actions of this man, who has just squeezed a tear out of us. I think we should ask the prosecution to deal with this situation more quickly. I think we're now giving not even as much credit to these events as we're saying that we're talking about freedom of journalistic activity in a country that's going democratically. The inability of a dangerous syndrome, the invasion of the legal freedoms that we have chosen, because we have already recorded several more cases since our actions speak of inactivity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Olu, I went to the bar. When I participate in your broadcasts, you will also allow me to speak more. Please, Zabzaluk gives the floor to another journalist, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u33	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We often criticize Adam Martinyuk for breaking the rules. But today, when he gave the word "Kalashnikov" to break the rules, we should be grateful to him because we had the opportunity to make sure that there was no limit to cynicism and blasphemy that Mr. Kalashnikov had demonstrated here. And when Gerasimük said that he was here from the rostrum, he was making tears out of us, no, he was laughing at us. Because he's absolutely, and he's laughing at all the journalists in Ukraine, all his colleagues, and he's demonstrated that he didn't make any conclusions about what happened. I've been doing journalism for many years, mostly opposition. When I was editor of the newspaper “Policy”, then “Freedom”, the newspaper was closed, criminal cases were brought against me, and that was done by the former regime and the authorities. Sadly, today, those who abused journalists until 2004 returned to power by 2005. As a result of the orange revolution, the arrival of the Democratic Authority in Ukraine has brought an end to the abuse of journalists. Sadly, they are returning today. And the case with Kalashnikov is a unique case. I want to remind you that one of the first bills that was passed by another member of the faction of the regions was the bill on the imposition of criminal liability for slander. It was only after the press co-opportunity made a strong statement on this issue that the author withdrew the bill. Then the beating of the S.T.B.T. Journalists by Kalashnikov. Other cases are known in regions where pressure is being exerted on the regional media, i.e. a system that is trying to restore in the country the fear of journalists, persecution and abuse of journalists for their right to stand. Today's vote, it will be tested first and foremost for the faction of the Party of Regions, because there is no doubt that the Yulia Timoshenko Block, "Our Ukraine" are representatives of democratic forces that stand on the watch for freedom of speech. After voting the faction of the Party of Regions for this draft decision, the whole society will be able to see if they are really supporters of freedom of speech or if they just release Blaszner Kalashnikov, who is abusing the very principles of journalistic independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u34	Hannah Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u35	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished fellow journalists. In the midst of a cassette scandal, President Kwasniewski told President Kuchmi: you know, democracy is such a suit, it's not well-hidden, but if you take it off, it stays naked. The story of Kalashnikov, the incident with Kalashnikov, has fortunately shown us that there is only one naked MP in this Hall. Who is he? We know everyone. As the Party of Regions, the faction of the region, the leadership of the party of incidents with Kalashnikov, has clearly condemned it, there is another evidence that the principles of freedom of the press in Ukraine have triumphed definitively and irrevocably. I thank you, fellow Members, for this understanding, thank you for your support for your freedom of the press, and I will require the gathering of the Party of the Regions to make a more fundamental assessment of Mr. Kalashnikov's behavior, because today, after his speech, I am convinced that Kalashnikov is, unfortunately, forever. So I think that behind this story, things are much deeper, this story as a lamus paper has shown us in what state of press freedom today in Ukraine, has shown us that freedom of the press must be protected, it still requires protection, and if, Olly, there will be a mandate to give, I will give it to him, we may not worry about it. But I believe, I believe, that my faction colleagues are so principled, they are so convinced Democrats that they can make a credible dent in the violators of democratic freedoms and freedom of the press in Ukraine. I believe it, and I stand on it because I can't do it any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u36	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I just want to say a few words. Well, first of all, I don't think anyone's gonna call me. I repeat, I'm allowed by the Rules. No one can deny or tell which article of the Rules I violated when I gave the floor to the deputy who asked for it, as far as it was concerned. I'd like to see any of us, if it were us, you asked for words, and I didn't give you that opportunity. So let's not touch the Rules here, I think there's a purely moral-human relationship here. That's the first one. So is the moral-human relationship in the incident that we're looking at. I think that each of us, listening to the report and I think, we should thank the commission, it really came unbiased, came up qualified, all the more so that there, I look, according to the composition of the commission there were mostly really journalists, fellow journalists and it seems they might reverse the situation, and they really went fairly reasonablely and balancedly towards the consideration of this case, which is not yet completed, because as the information of the commission goes on to follow up, and this matter will continue. I think each of us will agree that this does not beautify either the Supreme Council or each of its constituents, or each of the 450 national deputies. And I would very much like this to be the first, only, and final incident that would be between the press and the national MPs. And let's wait for the verdict that the investigating authorities will issue, all the more so if you've been familiar with the information, there's amazing figures, how many interrogations, extracts, documents, investigation experiments and so on and so forth. So let's probably take the ruling proposed by the investigative commission, given that, as the head said, there was no call for a city prosecutor, because it was unconstitutional, but to ask the Attorney General's Office to assist the city's prosecutor's office to speed up the consideration of this issue, which had a certain resonance. I'm putting the vote on the basis, I'm putting it on the basis, I'm putting it on the basis. [[11:09:39]] For 406 On the basis of 406. Please write down the suggestions. Yeah, well, let's go, maybe we're the faction principle. Oil, please, or someone from the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u37	Dear colleagues. Sveslav Olijnik, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to draw attention to the fact that the criminal case has been violated, and today it has been more than five months since it was investigated, and I have not yet seen or seen any evidence of this investigation. I think that if a normal legal process were to take place on this issue, it would not be necessary to turn this process into a political process right now. That is why the Attorney General should not be asked to be asked to report on the case, explaining the reasons for the delay in the investigation, and detailed and thorough information: why has the prosecution not been able to complete the investigation in five months? And why is the investigator who investigated this case already dismissed from the D.A.'s office and not working now? So the suggestion is that let's make an item: the Attorney General's report with a report on the delay in investigating the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u38	Yes. Who from “Our Ukraine”. Kirilenko, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u39	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, the speech of the deputy in question showed only a good sense of humor to him, but it would be funny if the matter were not so serious. We don't think there are any conclusions. So we suggest in the second paragraph that we write down that Kalashnikov’s behavior is not just one that demands judgment. Also, there are signs of obstacles to the professional activities of journalists. That was the point of view expressed by a large number of members of the commission. And in paragraph three, we insist that we do not call on the prosecutor of the city of Kiev to request and determine the deadline for the report of the Ukrainian Attorney General on this criminal case. Only after that, I think a temporary commission can stop its work and society will get clear conclusions as to whether the conclusions reached by those who have attacked freedom of speech and now enjoy our humor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u40	Yes, please, two factions have spoken. Are there any regions from the Party? Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u41	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Party of the Regions of Ukraine, if you saw it on the monitor, gave all her votes for the draft decree. We supported the conclusions of the commission that we made if we were not sorry or sorry for our colleague. I now propose that, in accordance with the Rules, the date, if there is a need to amend or supplement this decision, we should be able to make these changes and additions, not by voice, not by emotion, first. Secondly, to allow the prosecution, who knows that you've made such a decision, to address it, to allow the prosecution to make their legal conclusions so that we don't impose passion in an empty place. And one more thing, I would very much like to ask for some less of you to stop appealing, and both the Party of Regions, and also constitutionally unconstitutional. What difference does it make? This incident involved one person, especially since it was a hot time. Let us, therefore, calm down and consider this provision, the conclusion, to the extent of the requirements of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u42	Yes, thank you. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction voted in favour of the draft regulation and supports the opinion of those who wish to amend it, and proposes that a final vote be taken within a week. But what I care about is the respectable colleagues, the distinguished voters: today we must protect freedom of speech not only from the people's MP, but today the freedom of speech of the journalist must be protected from the owner of a publication. And this approach can be, if you focus on the people's MP, it will be superficial, because much more today, freedom of speech is threatened by the owners of these publications, which turn publications into a means of manipulating public consciousness, turning publications into a struggle between clans, and turning publications into that the struggle of compromises is diverted from the actual consideration of the essence of the problems. I therefore believe that consideration should lead us to a broader discussion of the role and place of information in Ukraine's public life, as well as the responsibility of owners for destroying freedom of speech today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u44	Yes, dear colleagues, have made suggestions, and we will be determined with them. The only thing I would like to say, especially to the prosecutors, is that you know very well that the Supreme Council cannot oblige the prosecution to do certain things. There is an explanation of the Constitutional Court. On your proposal to hear the report, please make a separate decision, and we will keep it in the legislative order. And it's going to get the required number of votes -- we can do that. Yes, Your Honor. Let's vote. Don't shout, don't shout, the amendments will be voted out, but I, once again, as the lead man, have to stress or think about the rightful amendments or the wrong ones, and you have to be determined. Read the Rules, dear colleagues, do not excite. I don't appreciate it. I'm making a point. The chairman should clarify the comments made by his fellow believers. You want me to show you. And that's a clarification. I make it clear that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that prohibits us from giving the Supreme Council a mandate to the prosecution, which prohibits the commission of the prosecution. So the Olinick amendment to hear the Attorney General's report, I repeat, has to be given a separate order, a professional committee. For the amendment of the Olinik, please vote. [[11:16:51]] For-189 Not supported. The factions. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 114, “Our Ukraine” – 71, Socialists – 2, non-fractional – 2. There was a repair of Kirilenka. There was an amendment to Kirilenko’s request to the Attorney General’s Office again. I've already given my assessment of the requirements of the Attorney General's Office. As for the second point, it contains signs of obstacles to journalists ’ activities. There is no such thing in the conclusion of the commission. This can only be done by the prosecutor’s office. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:17:45]] For-195 The factions. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 116, “Our Ukraine” – 75, Socialists – 2, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. So I'm voting on the whole decision. I'll do it again. Chechatov. Chechtev, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there were two more proposals of the same Peter Simonenka and Jaroslav Suhogo regarding the fact that the deputies made written proposals and we made a decision taking into account the proposal in a week’s time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u46	I am voting on the adoption of the decree and the whole. Please vote. [[11:19:05]] For 374 It's been decided. The factions. Region Party – 158, “Block Timoshenko” – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 41, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. Yes, dear fellows, let us turn to another hot issue. For review after the revision of the Ukrainian National Budget 2007 Act, registration number 2000. [[completed]] Dear colleagues, listen, please be careful. I say, let's take this question up as follows. Let's listen to the committee head's report for 10 minutes, let's give him a chance to answer his questions. Then, because once again, this is a specific bill. It's a state budget law that's been worked out. Then we'll be able to speak five minutes from the factions. Then I will summarize, answer questions and so on to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and identify myself. Do we agree with such a rule of procedure? Huh? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And what will be the wish of the President's representative. Will it, Arseny Petrovich? Okay, so this is how we do it, listen, once again, please. The committee head will report for ten minutes, five minutes to answer the question. He reports so much, ten minutes and five minutes, answering the question of the first deputy head of the secretariat. After five minutes, the factions who show their desire will sum up the conversation and answer the questions and give the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, Mikola Janović, and we will be determined. Do you have a deal? And there's an offer because it's going to take about 50 to an hour to work continuously, and then I'm going to call it 30 minutes. I am putting these proposals to the vote, please support this Rules of Procedure on the 2007 State Budget. [[11:21:46]] For 246 Copy that. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Vladimir Vladimirovich, 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich, Mikola Janovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government, representatives of the media! On the basis of a review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine's proposals for Ukraine's 2007 State Budget Act. On 15 December 2006, amendments to the Act were voted, recommended by the Budget Committee. That is, to articles 71 and 97 on the extension of the maximum pension limit for Ukrainian national deputies and to the Final Orders on the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to direct, in the established order, the privatisation of state property beyond the limits defined in article 23 of this Act to increase the level of living and minimum wage. At its meeting on 18 December 2006, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues carefully reviewed and analysed the expert calculations of the additional expenditure to implement the President of Ukraine's 2007 proposal for the Ukrainian State Budget and the expert calculations on possible sources of funding. First of all, it should be noted that the members of the committee have drawn attention to the question of the validity of the economic calculations sent by the President's Secretariat and the availability of a database for detailed calculations. Secondly, the implementation of the proposals of the President's Secretariat has implications for the changes in the socio-economic indicators included in the Ukrainian State Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. For example, proposals for an increase in income to the budget, to the Pension Fund, and to the per capita income tax budget provide for an increase in the labour fund of about 10 billion people. of the year, 191 billion up to 201 billion This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. We analyzed the findings of many independent experts, and no institution predicts more than 600 billion GDP. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. In particular, World Bank experts forecast GDP for the following year at $594 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 So we have to consciously imagine who will be responsible for the implementation of the budget, or the government, along with the anti-crisis coalition that reports to the Supreme Council or the President's Secretariat. Proposals for a reduction of 10 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The expenses of pensions to the people's deputies, as you understand, will not solve all the problems of the Pension Fund. Taking into account the Secretariat’s proposals for raising social standards, there is a negative change in macroeconomic proportions, which will first of all reduce the value of corporate income in the GDP economy and reduce the ability of economic operators to invest in the development of production. In addition, this will lead to an increase in inflation, which ultimately undermines the positive impact of raising social standards and depriving the income of vulnerable populations themselves. With a view to raising the level of social protection for citizens, the 2007 budget envisions a substantial increase in social benefits, subsidies, benefits, and other social assistance. That's an increase in the income of the unprotected population. If in 2006 everyone who had the right to receive subsidies and benefits through the social transfer system had an additional social security guarantee of $24 per month, in 2007 it was 46. Instead, the secretariat proposes to increase pensions and reduce benefits and subsidies. And as I said before, there's a risk of underincome from the pension fund. With regard to the increase in the subsistence minimum, the legislative deadline for the provision of subsistence allowance sets ended in April 2005. By August of this year, no previous government had made the final decision to approve the new set. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the 2007 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, as a whole, as adopted on 6 December 2006, taking into account the above-mentioned amendments to the law and the amendments to the committee in accordance with the comparative table given to you by your distinguished colleagues. It should be noted that the early entry into force of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act has a number of negative consequences, both for the economy as a whole and for the expansion of existing social programmes. The failure to acquire the law does not allow the approval of more than 12,000 local budgets. In addition, the expenditure of the State Budget can be met only for the purposes set out in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year, 2006, and at the same time provided for in the draft State Budget Act for 2007 and the monthly expenditure cannot exceed one twelfth of the amounts set out in the State Budget Act for 2006. A temporary schedule will be drawn up, that is, a situation of manual management of the state budget. There will be no legislative basis for any capital expenditure, including information on educational institutions, acquisition, storage and delivery of manuals, centralized procurement of health equipment, combating tuberculosis, AIDS, water supply, water supply, water management, development reform of the JRC, housing security, other housing programs. As regards the payment of pensions to military personnel, members of the military and teaching staff, they are transferred to the pension fund. Plan expenditures on new programs, create reaction zones, memorial and museum complexes, and develop historical and cultural monuments such as: the School of the Future, the European City of Health, the construction of a plasma processing plant, the acquisition of waste materials for family-supported child surgical, rehabilitation facilities, the Department of Emergency Assistance and Labs, and the acquisition of special emergency fire-fighting equipment, etc. There will be no accounting for the financial support of military personnel, members of the military and of the primary staff, which has been in place since 2007, which will distort the social insurance system. There will be a legislative possibility of tax evasion, as there will be no limitation on billings when importing group goods, gas, oil and other hydrocarbons into Ukraine in a gas-like state. The minimum wage, pensions and other social benefits will be paid on the basis of the actual rates at the end of 2006. At the same time, the cost allocations for the minimum wage of 400 dollars will not be sufficient, i.e. one salary without allowances and bonuses will be paid, since there is a limit, as I said earlier, to one of the twelve expenditure levels in 2006. Subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets, primarily benefits and subsidies, assistance to families with children, will not be paid on a new scale. Thus, honourable colleagues, the non-admission of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act will lead to a deterioration in the standard of living of the population, a slowdown in economic growth, a negative image of the country of Ukraine in Europe and the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand clearly that the issue before us is the adoption of a complex but realistic, balanced State budget for 2007 in the new conditions of constitutional reform, the legislative actions of the Ukrainian National Deputies, should be a stabilizing factor that will not allow for the economic and political situation in our country. The state will not be able to run out of budget and the responsibility lies with you. The proposals voted on 15 December 2006 provide an opportunity to raise the issue with the President, and for this government, we will assign these proposals. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u48	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Five minutes. Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u49	Please pass the word to the Hound.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u50	Eugene Gorenik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u51	Deputy Greenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich! You missed one moment in your report. You did not say that by a majority of votes yesterday, the budget committee resumed the activities of free economic zones. So, please answer the question: “Why does your faction dislike pensioners so much that it hurts them even 26 bucks a month, and so loves Ukrainian oligarchs who open free economic zones for them? ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Eugene Alexiovich. I really couldn't say everything in my report that was reflected in the 2007 budget. You know why that is. First. This is not the first time I've ever performed in this rostrum. It's different. The rules say 10 minutes. As far as your question is concerned. Indeed, this rule is proposed in order to prevent ambiguous application of legislation that determines the order and conditions of payment by subjects of free economic zones and areas of priority tax and congregation development and the corresponding cost of the State budget. As you will recall, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act and some other legislative acts have abolished the tax tax regime in these areas. However, there are some contradictions between Ukrainian laws that regulate taxation and investment conditions in Ukraine, which allow individual entities to renew the tax regime according to court decisions. Taking this into account, it is suggested that the table clearly states that priority areas, free economic zones, should pay all taxes and collections of fleas, i.e. in order and under conditions defined by existing laws and tax matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u53	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u54	Alexander Pecklusenko, the "Regions" faction. Vladimir Vladimirović, you will tell our distinguished colleagues that there is enough speculation about cephires, godparents and other acid-based political products. We need to talk about the substance. In essence, the task of the Supreme Council as a whole is to ensure that the pensioners and every citizen of Ukraine have both kefir and kefir, and that the real salary is not on paper, but actually received. This is a fundamental principled position. I ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to make clear what fundamental amendments have not been taken into account by our colleagues from our Ukraine. Second, which of the deputies made the same calculations and requirements as we see in the document submitted by the Secretariat of the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u55	Thank you for asking, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. In my report, I drew attention to what was in store for the country and looked forward to including pensioners in the event that the 2007 budget was not adopted. No one wins, including pensioners. With regard to the proposals made by the national deputies, you remember that there were more than three thousand. You and I have worked fruitfully for three months, and all the principles of the proposal have been taken into account. With regard to the President's proposals sent to the Committee of the Secretary of the President and we had with you at a previous meeting of the Supreme Council's mandate, which indicated that the Committee on Budget Affairs should finalize the bill by including the full-fledged representatives of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have done so with you at the Committee on Budget Affairs. Many of the suggestions we took into account, and on the first reading, we took into account the suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u56	Kirilenko gives Bondar Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u57	Alexander Bondar, O.R.P. "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, the head of the committee! In the 4th amendment you're making in the End, you're proposing an increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage to attach to the income from privatization, and you're suggesting that more than the amount defined in the 23rd article will go to this increase. You're seriously counting on Valentina Petrovna Semenjuk to put more than 10 billion dollars into the budget in the first quarter. Or are you just giving us this standard so that we know in advance that this is not going to happen. Please give me an answer. Is that your real offer or is that your sense of smell?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u58	Thank you, dear colleague Bondar. You're no different than the former head of the Holding Foundation, you know very well what real real estate can be like in Ukraine. After the President of Ukraine's proposals, which were made by the President's Secretariat, that enterprises such as Ukratelek, Odessa Airport, are included in the list of enterprises, you know about their market price, you know. I'm sure there's no doubt that the privatisation revenue of 10 billion dollars and more will be made in the budget. And indeed, we have taken into account in the Final Positions and voted with you the previous time that this money, which will be surplus, will channel in the established order the proceeds of privatization of state property beyond the amounts defined in article 23 of this Law to increase the living minimum and minimum wage approved by this law. We are confident that the government will do so along with the Maintenance Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Jacinek Arseny Petrovich, First Deputy Head of the President's Secretariat. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u60	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Let me brief you on the progress of the budgetary process that is taking place after 11 numbers have been returned to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine to draft the State Budget Act and the corresponding proposals have been sent. On Friday, the President’s Secretariat completed the calculations required, and more specifically, requested by the Ministry of Finance and the Committee, and on Saturday, after a telegram from the relevant Committee of Budgets was transferred to all the relevant facilities that they wanted to obtain. I would like to point out that the first forecast that was published by the Ministry of Finance, which applied to the necessary amount of expenditure to implement the President's proposals, amounted to 10 billion dollars. According to calculations that are passed on and that are not refuted by the Ministry of Finance and other relevant authorized bodies, the total amount of funds required for the redeployment, I stress, not to increase the deficit of the State budget, not to find additional sources, but only to redistribute within the existing budget, is 837 million dollars. I'd like to remind you, with your permission, of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The first proposal applied to the minimum of living for disabled citizens. This is the same figure that should correspond to the minimum pension for 12 million Ukrainian pensioners. The President's proposal was the following: this is not about an abstract increase in this figure; it is about the fact that, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy itself, in October-months, the minimum subsistence for disabled citizens was 391 bracelets, as opposed to the 380s that have been foreseen since 1 January 2007. Two methodologies have been used by the secretariat: the first is the so-called classic official methodology approved by the Joint Order of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State. According to the methodology, the lack of funds reaches 28 sums in the first quarter of the year, which must be paid to both pensioners and other persons who receive an appropriate subsistence minimum for disabled citizens. According to the estimates used by the Ministry of Finance in its own information systems, the amount of money is 19 dollars. That is, even at the very least, it is necessary to add a corresponding amount for pensioners on January 1st. With regard to the minimum wage and minimum wage, he wanted to remind himself that the project of the budget is designed to increase such a wage in two stages. The president is invited to make this promotion more considerate and more effective and to distribute it on a quarterly basis. On the one hand, it minimizes budget spending, on the other hand, it gives a gradual move towards an increase in the minimum wage for three million budgeters. This is about teachers, doctors, and educators, and other categories of citizens. Three other proposals relating to the tax bill on imports of oil into Ukraine's customs territory, the settlement of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issuance of appropriate midterm loans to budgets and the issue of the limitation of pensions for the people's deputies, are also expressed in the President's proposal and should be considered in accordance with the rules provided for in the President's proposal for the relevant State Budget Act. Unfortunately, the corresponding calculations to the Ukrainian State Budget Act have not been made, and so far we do not see from the relevant authorized state authorities changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I've got everything, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, can I ask you a question? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u62	Mr. Yatsenuk, I have a question like this, you refer to the Ministry of Labour, which, in October of the month, gave observation papers and observational values of living minimums that the Ministry of Labour has been doing all of the last years since the year 98. I have a specific question for you: at the level of the Minister of Economy in December 2005, when the 2006 budget was adopted, the difference was also more than 10 dollars, why didn't you make a proposal to pledge the Ukrainian President's law? Why was 350 living minimum approved in the budget in January, and in fact it was the result of the same Ministry of Labour 363 bracelets, February 374. And you haven't made any moves on the President's veto proposal. Now you rip out one meaning of one month and love the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Kaletnik, I'd like to go to the numbers anyway. Here is an official letter signed by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which confirms the credibility of the accounts of the Secretary of the President. As for last year, I would like to point out that in order to eliminate the corresponding speculations, we had a work done on a more transparent approach to calculating the subsistence minimum, but then the government was changed, and this work should be continued by the new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u64	Please, Tomenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u65	Arsenius Petrovich, a few questions. First, rather, a statement: I am pleased that we have the national deputies now, and, I hope, and the officials will be in one category with regard to the so-called 'elite pensions'. You know, when I worked as Vice Prime Minister, Timoshenko's government made a decision like this -- there were limited maximum so-called 'elite pensions'. And I think that at the time, according to a group of deputies, that decision was overturned. I'm glad that this socially just decision is there. But what bothers me? I hear daily that, for example, the President says it's a shameful antisocial budget, and he'll never compromise. Then colleagues from the anti-crisis coalition come to him, and he says we've already agreed and we'll work together. I'd like to hear it clearly: let's say that in this version today, for a new edition, in fact, the budget is going to be given, well, normally 246 votes, you're going to advise the President to veto, and when is the veto of parliament to wait?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u66	Dear Mikola Vasilovich, if you will allow me to comment on the situation that took place after the meeting of the head of state with representatives of the parliamentary majority. The point was that the President was ready to cooperate constructively on the issue of joint calculations and amendments to the State Budget Act. And I would like to remind you once again that on Saturday, a telegram was immediately sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the Supreme Council requesting a working meeting of all relevant experts. That's the first one. The other one. On Saturday, however, all the computational materials were presented to challenge the idea that 10 billion would be needed to implement the President’s proposals. The President's proposals require 837 million. When it comes to promises or failures. This question can be considered only after a corresponding draft of the State Budget Act has arrived. However, I would like to point out that there is already an official document of the Head of State, which is the President's proposal for the previous State Budget Act, which clearly sets out the position of the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u67	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u68	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I support the President's decision to veto, and I believe that this debate, which is now taking place in both the Parliamentary Hall and in society, is constructive and is aimed at the social protection of the poorest sections of the population. Yet our president always shows a desire for compromise. Now you've reported that there are no 10 billion and no 6 billion, but only 837 million have to be redistributed from prepared, approved expenditures to take into account the President's key social proposals. And also, to increase pensions, the number is listed, and that's an increase in the average wage per year, so I figured out, 19 dollars and an increase in the quarterly minimum wage. So the steps taken by the President, his secretariat, are obvious. As an economist, do you think there are any objective preconditions left to disregard the President's offer of wages and living minimum? Or it's just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Kirilenko, I would like to remind you that the expert accounts transferred to the Ministry of Finance contained a very compromise proposal. For example, there is no unreasonable increase in the minimum wage of the first number. And the galloping paces throughout the year. We've proposed to split it up in a quarterly way to provide the spending and income portion of the State budget. The second question is that of equalizing the wage imbalances for military personnel. A billion off offer and 50% off offer. I mean, it's only 500 million. The third proposal is that the President of Ukraine lists the corresponding minimum living standards and invents appropriate sources that clearly indicate that it does not need 10 billion, it needs 837 million. These calculations were unrepentant. So I don't think there's any economic basis for not accepting these calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich, sit down, please. Yes, anyone who wishes to step out of factions, please sign up. Yes, the recording took place. Please, Baldirev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Five minutes. He's giving it to me. Please, Hellcat. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, respected voters, the word “budget” has gained special meaning and sound in Ukraine over the past three months. There were so many scandals, disputes, and mutual accusations surrounding the budget process, and there was no time or space left for dialogue and joint work. In fact, we have two points of view to date. The first of our opponents. They propose that the 2007 budget be based on economically unfounded principles of the 2005-2006 budget populism. Our option is not only to maintain payments of previous years, but also to add 12 per cent of the actual social benefits saved from the sale of the Creatures. We are obliged to bear in mind that the budget in which more than is spent is not just a mistake, but a politically irresponsible and restrictive one with regard to the threat of national security of the country. A few words on speculation that the proposed budget is not socially oriented. Any figure in this budget has a growth rate. I bring only a few of them, in 2006, about 23 bracelets were added to everyone who had the right to receive benefits through the social transfer system. This amount has been doubled in the 2007 draft budget. All social growth has only a positive positive sign. Our faction responsibly states that the 2007 budgetary conflict caused by a group of former Cabinetmen has unfortunately been able to bring the President, Parliament and Cabinet of Ministers into this process. The main task of this group is to impose non-real income on the Government in order to break the payment of pensions and salaries already in January. In this, respectable voters, their main political objective. These people are allowed to play with billions of budget money like children with cubes in their sandbox. If their initial proposals made on the fifth of December were an additional 10 billion, they have already halved that amount by counting and soberingly. So maybe you'll still think maybe you'll be sober. It is not possible to juggle the numbers behind which the fates of people, cities and Ukraine lie. Adam Ivanovich, invite a psychiatrist to the man because we're gonna lose another deputy. On this point, we understand that a tense but real budget is being proposed to you today. Either we are adopting a balanced budget that will necessarily be implemented or we are adopting a risk budget. Another question, Adam Ivanovich, to you in a form, please tell us whether we have a precedent when the budget committee is considering the materials sent to the secretariats of the Supreme Council or to the secretariats of the Government. If this is the President's proposal, why doesn't he sign it, we don't know the author so far. In his meeting with the President on 15 December, Viktor Andrejevic himself noted that, in finalizing the budget, his proposal was accounted for by 97 per cent. For the organisers of the budget crisis, this is an argument because the process is more important to them. Dear voters, we guarantee you that there will be a budget in the country this year, the country will have the order required by the Budget Code, the Constitution and the civil responsibility of representatives of all branches of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u72	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u73	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. Simonenko, the Communist faction. I believe that we must look very seriously at the budgetary process in terms of what negative trends it shows us should draw our attention to practical steps towards order in the country. Of course, the goal of investing in order to support and support the domestic producer is to help the real sector of the economy and, above all, to stabilize the standard of living today and to help the individual electorate. What am I proposing, first of all, that we do? The budgetary situation has shown: The President's Administration does not really need it today. First of all, there are four economic ex-Ministers working there and still have not been able to make a real suggestion that what nuances should be taken into account, perhaps we have made a mistake in filling the income part of the budget. We couldn't offer anything. Therefore, once again, it shows that there are no professionals, there are political shamans and shulers who are trying to put us all in a deadlock. But I would also like to address my colleagues in the anti-crisis coalition. The budgetary process has shown that the situation threatening the country and the orange durman must be taken urgent measures today. First and foremost, the way to make peace is needed in the economy. It is serious to reflect on the reallocation of gross domestic product through the budget, since this is a basic indicator of the humanity of public policy today, to give the people what they have earned. Second. In order to support the real economy, I would like to invite the President and the Prime Minister today and the Head of the National Bank, in a closed manner, to consider the use of the country's currency reserve and to think about where and for what purpose this country's currency reserve could be directed. Set the rate of refinancing of the National Bank of Ukraine 3-5 per cent and for commercial banks 3 per cent of the margin and maximum for the real economy 8 per cent annual loans. The real sector of the economy will then be technologically crowded, job creation, market filling, wage formation and thus budgeting. I believe that today we must establish the most stringent control on the border, especially from the point of view that smuggling is indeed closing the road to Ukraine. That is a minimum of 10 billion today that can fill the budget. I believe that we should take special control over the use of the part of the person handed over to “love friends” and who today are depriving themselves of what they want. Therefore, “love friends”, I think it is best that you surrender to the anti-crisis Government today the management of this property. Just as I suggest, "any friends", get out of the gas and oil wells and give up everything you are sending out of Ukraine today. Also, as I say again, the Attorney General's Office would like you to check the titanium-magnetic combination. And those who are responsible for this today from the orange team - 200 million The money was stolen last year. Next. I propose today to introduce Mr. Monopoly to vodka and tobacco. Protect the APC today, first and foremost, to fill the internal market. How can we support our electorate? I suggest, first of all today, that the anti-crisis Government seriously investigate why private business has not paid more than one billion wages. And ask how the fair charging of wages is monitored in principle today. And I would suggest, including to all of you, that I address the distinguished colleagues and those who have spoken out here, talking about how the people of Ukraine live in their firms. Check the prices as you determine at what price you sell food. In general, with regard to the President's proposals, I would like to invite the orange team to return 7.5 billion dollars. The debts of ESS that you have written down and thus set a point. And there's nothing more to do, but 7.5 billion. The bracelets you wrote down as Prime Minister of EESU, return to the State Treasury. I propose that today truly respected colleagues, indeed, take a state approach to what is happening in our State. Indeed, if we are talking about the real economy, it requires real government on the part of the State. It's the same tax policy, it's pricing. Wage formation, the question of filling our market, protecting national interests at the border, is a whole set of activities. I am convinced that this is the path of today's anti-crisis coalition and the Government, and it is on this path that we must solve every day the problems of instilling our people's faith that the anti-crisis coalition and the Government today are in a position to protect national interests from the orange durman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of the Timoshenko Block, is handing over to Turkey. Please, Turkov, prepare for the Strabravsky Davymuk was passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, you know, I'm always very pleased to hear Communist speeches. They, you know, they remind you of the cradle, but it only sounds too loud. When people constantly try to invent a myth and then try to undo it. And they don't get it. And, you know, like with the debts of the EES. The same government of yours, the Kuchma you supported, respected Communists, over the last 10 years invented the debts of EES, and then was forced to write them down. And so you work everywhere. In addition, respected colleagues. You know. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to stop artificially dividing the hall into oranges and blues. So that's how you share the hall, the venerable communists, so please change your flags into blue and it'll match the reality. That's next. Dear colleagues! You know here, Mr. Simonenko found another billion 20, I counted the extra money. And I would suggest, don't forget, you're a coalition, you're ruling a country today. Please include these 20 billion in the budget and meet your obligations. Next question. Dear colleagues! Here was a distinguished, by the way, I had a national MP from the faction of the regions saying that an economic approach to the budget should be applied, not a political one. Let's take an economic approach. I'm paying your attention to just one little thing. During the 11 months of the current year, there was an increase of 10 percent of inflation, which was actually budgeted in 2007. Your Ministry of Economics is already counting on a 12-percent inflation hike by the end of the year. Question: “Why don’t you count the budget according to the requirements of the Budget Code according to the increase in inflation, which, according to your projections, will only increase, dear colleagues? [[I'll remind you, this is article 52.]] Why don't you do that?" And you're saying that you're protecting the interests of our citizens? Do you protect social strata? What you can talk about when prices actually lead to the fact that for the first time in 10 years, the actual budget will result in a reduction and subsistence minimum, a reduction in minimum pensions and wages when you actually count them, not nominally, as you suggest. In today’s country, you try to make beggars and talk about your love for the people. Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to those problems that didn't just solve, they didn't even want to discuss. The only question that you're proposing to put into the budget, a new one under your budget scheme, is what the opposition demanded -- to limit the pensions of the people's deputies. But that's not enough, dear colleagues. And that's why all the problems that have been in the past budget remain in what, in fact, nothing other than the pensions of the people's deputies, is different from what we've already talked about. I'm going to remind you of the main problems that you don't want to discuss: it's increasing the pressure on citizens and giving unwarranted tax benefits to large businesses. Is this concern for our people? Next. Returning to the policy of culinary privatization of government property. I especially like the singing on this subject of Communists who say that we need to get our property back. You don't have to steal that property and then you don't have to return it. And this applies to you, your esteemed colleagues, your privatization program, which you voted for, in fact, that transforms the last property of our country into your banal sink. The next problem is the return of the policy of further poverty in the village and the degradation of the social and cultural spheres. No change in the budget is offered to the village or the cultural sphere, and we're talking about something that's an improved document. When we talk about regions, I want to say that at least nine billion of them are hidden from the local budget deficit. And we say that we represent not only Kiev, but all the parts of our country. Dear colleagues, nine billion! You're pushing local councils to do that. That they're not actually able to cope with the increase in tariffs, they won't have anything to compensate our people for what their anti-crisis coalition and this government are pushing. And, honourable colleagues, without having time to count all the budget errors, I'm going to stop at the top. You know why he doesn't want to compromise the anti-crisis coalition so badly? Why doesn't the government want to compromise with the President? Because you're interested in not having a budget, you're interested in running the country manually! This is your interest, and that's why you don't want to change the country's state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u76	Paul Zebravsky, faction of our Ukraine. Behind us, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I'd like to correct a few thesaurus here first. In the country, not only is the majority and the anti-crisis coalition responsible for the situation, including economics, but so is the President. Wise people say that in order for a cat in the house to be afraid of mice. To that end, the Constitution and the legislator arm the President with a veto so that stupidity or cynicism can be halted. I would also like to correct the thesis about the horrors that are likely in the event of a budget failure by the end of the year. Dear friends, all fiscal laws, all tax standards are adopted by law. January of the month will live by legislation that provides for tax burdens on business and regulates business. But the main payments, including social payments, will be paid after January. Because of this, my fellow Members, we have enough time with you to make a good budget, not a budget, but a good budget, for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Dear friends, I don't understand you Ivans. First, you ask the Secretariat to fill the budget, since the President gave the budget, he predicted. After the President's representatives write down the income clearly, where does the resource that needs to be targeted for social purposes come from, you say they don't have the right to make these calculations. So, my friends, when are you being honest? Is it when you demand, or when you do not want to listen? I'm going to count again what was predicted, the financial resources that were supposed to be involved in raising social standards. The first part. As the minimum wage rises, the pension fund’s income increases by 3.6 billion dollars. As citizens raise their minimum wage, income tax revenues increase by 1.4 billion. Since raising the minimum wage, subsidies, including housing and utility tariffs, will have to be paid for by 500 million dollars less. Thus, of the six billion 327 million, five and a half billion are clearly identified as financial resources, which are and can be provided, including by heating up the consumer market for economic warming. Next: 837 million dollars. It is predicted that the non-state pension fund is 200 million, the Borispil airport and Donetsk airport is 290 million, 100 million for the Ministry of Finance information and 10-15 million for different resources, for different programs. But I think today even that little redistribution you just don't want to do. Well, this is where my colleagues and I discussed maybe two reasons. The first reason is that you want to keep the people "at bay" because the poor people are dependent on power. You see, the situation is that when President Yushchenko proposed the Poverty Alleviation Program, he just wanted the population's income to rise to the point that there was no subsidy, there was no aid, because when the people were independent of power, he could make free choices for the benefit of a political power. So one wish, perhaps, is to have a poor people led by them. And second, my friends, maybe you just can't, the programs are divided -- and now it's not clear who's going to take this program, who's going to run this program. That's why there are two of those that work today, why you don't want to count this budget. Dear colleagues, I think we've got enough sanity to avoid imposing political opposition, not to terrorize the Ukrainian people, but to recalculate the budget, to accept it, and we'll be fine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u78	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u79	Dear voters, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected members of the government. I would like to begin with that the President's proposals, which came after the Law's promise, were carefully considered on the budget committee and some of them were reflected. There was talk of restrictions on the pensions of the national deputies, which was done. You can see in the document how hard-lined the standards for SEZs and priority areas are. It has become the only issue today, as we say, is the minimum pension and the minimum wage. We are grateful to the budget committee for the work done by the secretary. And on the first reading, when we took the budget, you remember, in transitional positions we wrote that let's go back to those numbers in the first quarter of the new year. Regrettably, we have been offered, and let us do it now and only today. I would like to say, dear friends, that I tried to find statistics, where else, in which countries, the veto was applied to the Budget Act? I couldn't find any of those countries, so I think we've got something going on here, too. Because the country needs a budget, and some today instead of supporting and protecting the President from steps that could lead to the social consequences of the unforeseeable, they push him there. As for the minimum wage, the minimum pension, we all know that these are predictive indicators, they can't be accurately predicted with you. It's predictable, and we don't know who's making the bigger mistake. Whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers or the Budget Committee or, say, the President's Secretariat, which gives us their calculations. And perhaps this truth is somewhere in the middle, both among them and among those accepted in the first reading and in general as the Law. So what's the rush? We can go quietly to the New Year, let the New Year celebrate our people, we'll have statistics, we'll get the exact figures for 2006 and in the first quarter we'll be able to recalculate the budget if that's what we need. But someone wants it very much today and only today. What if it's a mistake? What are we losing? Absolutely nothing, just a balanced decision, let's go back to the first quarter. What do you mean, I'd still like our voters not to accept the budget today? We will be funding according to legislation one twelfth of the budget this year. This means that if 1,000 dollars a January month were needed for school maintenance, the principal will only get 120 dollars. And if he gets a thousand dollars to the hospital, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, he'll get less, less! Don't! [[B in m in s a l in]] So this means that neither the hospital nor the education, today our militia nor the defense, will be financed, nor will the subsidies that have been discussed today. So we're going to break both the educational process and the treatment of our citizens. So to make such sacrifices today, to take on such a responsibility that today such social problems in the country, socialists will not do so, they will vote in favour of the budget that is needed today. And we're going to be the first to speak, in the first quarter, about getting all the calculations clearly, statistical data, that if there's a mistake to review it immediately, and to send these costs to the right social needs. Tommy, I don't want to blame any faction, no national MP. I'm sure everyone here wants this budget to be as good as possible. But let us turn to common sense. On Friday we conclude the meetings of the Supreme Council until the New Year. That is, by the New Year, we will no longer be gathered together. The budget starts on January 1. And let's each take responsibility for whether we leave the country without a budget, or whether we leave the country with a budget. Maybe he's not perfect, I'm counting on the criticism of opponents, but we have an opportunity in the first quarter to come back and polish him if there's any mistakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From what you shout, the radios can't hear you. You're just creating a row of noise. Simonenko replica, one minute. Turkov mentioned the name twice or three times.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u81	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectful voters, what do we Communists warn about, and what do we call for? First, I believe that, in order to respond to the President's request, we have long supported this request, in fact, that it is necessary to return 7.5 billion bracelets that have illegally written down the “One Energy Systems” and have not been paid to the budget. That's a first. Second, with regard to the use of property. I think the botovs should ask their colleague Zhivago how Alexanderia Coal is being destroyed. At the same time, thousands of people have lost their jobs, a state without a budget, and people are experiencing tremendous difficulties today. I think we should seriously recommend that we find out what they're doing and where they're putting this property, and what property they've got in charge. I think that we must decide today to include in the agenda the establishment of an investigation commission, as we have illegally written off 7.5 billion bracelets of ESA. And the last. Dear colleagues, there is a system in orange madness. This system is very dangerous, a system of lies and lies and theft.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u82	Please, Mikola Janovich, 10 minutes. From the place, please, probably. Better off, you'll be using materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u83	Respectable people's deputies, respected bodies and radio listeners. I'm gonna change my speech a little bit because you're listening and you're surprised. What's more, cynicism, hypocrisy in the speeches of some of our opponents. Dear Mr. Kirilenko, former Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Government, Mr. Yatzenuk, former Minister of Economy, Mr. Pinzenik, former Minister of Finance. You are now very sorry that the subsistence minimum does not seem to be in line with the estimates set out in the budget. And what did you not think of our people when you were developing a method of determining the minimum of living? I'll read it for everyone. The subsistence minimum is calculated by the State Statistical Committee of Ukraine on the basis of the lowest prices for food and non-food products of minimum consumer quality. If we were to take your position and calculate the minimum of living, it would be 40 bracelets below. So, when you were telling the truth and doing it in accordance with your beliefs, then or now, advising the President? They're just as hypocritically sympathetic to our people that the inflation has gone wrong. And the level of inflation is now higher than the one they have set up, I stress, in the budget. Because we live by their budget, 2006. So you gentlemen did not know that your activities in the country would raise gas prices, electricity prices, housing and utility tariffs, and that this would have to be kept to a minimum, both in pensions and in subsidies and in all other calculations. Why didn't you bet? What do you remember about that now? I recall 2002 when only the appointed Government of Viktor Fedorović Janukovic submitted a budget to this Hall. And there were about the same discussions, and we were also insulted that we were underestimating the subsistence minimum. Meanwhile, 2003-2004 was Ukraine's best years in terms of maximizing the combination and growth of social spending and economic growth. You can't do that, my friends, and you're teaching us how to develop an economy. My friends, you'll learn, because someday, we're sitting ducks, someday you'll have to run the country. You'd better learn. And now I'll be back, back to the text of my statement. We have constantly informed the public in detail about the proposals that were included in the budget at the initiative of the President. But each letter changed the format of the requirements, and the last of December 5 after the bill was submitted to the Supreme Council, there was a clear requirement for an increase in living minimum and minimum wage. The question is not that the government, in principle, does not want to take into account the proposals, but the government wants to improve the well-being of our citizens, but the source of the accelerated growth in the lives of our citizens should be the economy. The cost of not only lack of resources for additional budget expenditures today is almost 10 billion, it is a threat of widening the imbalance between wage growth and productivity. At the rate of increasing the state’s social obligations through economic realities and budget opportunities, this is a direct threat to price hikes. And we're doing a task of restoring the investment and innovation model of economic development and enhancing the financial capacity of the regions. This is especially relevant at the threshold of Ukraine’s accession to the World Organization for trade where our manufacturers are facing far from warm conditions. Significant risks arise from rising energy prices. In fact, two approaches were closed in the budget process next year. One is speculative, how to redistribute, limited funds and make political dividends. Another approach is constructive, or reformative, when the budget is viewed as a medium-term economic growth tool, actually linked to social production. Erhardt, Germany’s well-known economic development strategy, wisely said: “The source of good manufacturing and not redistribution and consumption.” Despite the loud statements and the widespread campaign in the media, the President's Secretariat only submitted proposals to the Yatsenuk budget on December 18th. The Secretariat does not know whether these proposals are shared by the President or not. The secretariat estimates the additional requirements for the budget budget as much as 6.2 billion. Or nearly 4 billion. More than they've predicted before, coming out of the President's proposal. At the same time, it is noted that calculations are expert, because there are insufficient databases to compile detailed calculations, as can be insisted on taking into account the proposals when they are based on estimated calculations and expert estimates, about their quality I will tell you below. What exactly is being proposed? Increase the pay-as-you-go fund in the economy. Think of the phrase “increase the wage fund in the economy” by 10 billion. It's going to increase by 25 percent. This is an increase in real GDP by 6.5 percent and an increase in energy efficiency. In addition, it is important to take into account that the economy as a whole is developing under its laws, which do not have direct correlations with the increase in minimum wage, that there is a complex system of factors that influence the economy that is familiar to all professional economists. The source of real wage increases is not an administrative increase in the nominal level, but an increase in productivity and investment in business renewal. With the administrative increase in wage levels, faster than the real economy, there is an artificial increase in the costs of enterprises. Additional revenue from the citizens' budget, due to an increase in the minimum wage, will be offset by a reduction in corporate taxes and an additional increase in the minimum wage with an increase in inflation. With regard to the calculation of the additional expenditure of the Pension Fund, it's interesting. According to the Secretariat’s calculations, the pension fund’s income is increasing by up to 3.5 billion. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 5000000. So you and I have to get 700 million dollars off the pension fund. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the Thus, there is a real decline in the funding of the Pension Fund. Here's the price of non-professionalism for these actors. As electricity prices rise, the President’s secretariat proposes to reduce the budget for benefits and subsidies by 500 million dollars. So with one hand, we give, we take the other. This can be described as nothing less than populist budget manipulation. It is not considered by the secretariat that 70 percent of subsidies and housing subsidies for housing and utilities are for the financing of benefits that are granted irrespective of the level of income of the family. So there will be no economy. There are no differences between the President's positions on local budgets. At first, the President’s proposals were about the difference between the granting of medium-term, non-performing loans to local budgets. I'm going to point out that they're mostly supported by rural and district budgets, or small depressed cities of district importance. Since there is a very high level of social expenditure in local budgets, the lack of self - income will definitely result in a debt of wages. In line with the proposal of the President's Secretariat, we need to review the macroeconomic indicators that are approved by the government's decree. Let's say that they are the basis of the 2007 budget and the State Economic and Social Development Programme. Once again, the government alone is responsible for its calculations and actions. A few words that will happen. Adam Ivanovich, literally, a minute. What happens if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u84	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u85	The State Budget for 2007 will not be adopted. First. There will be no increase in the cost of living for the disabled. It's different. There will be no payout of about 2 million child-war payments to pensions totaling 430 million. No increased pension will be paid to disabled military personnel. The difference between the prices for the purchase of imported natural gas and its implementation by utilities will not be compensated. This will inevitably result in further increases in housing and utility tariffs, will not be able to fully compensate energy-supply drivers and increase the social protection of the population through the aid and housing subsidies mechanism to the population, will not be able to pay back to families with children who are low-income, who will be accounted for from the old subsistence minimum, scholarships will be paid from the old subsistence minimum. More than 2,000 local budgets will not be approved, and monthly expenditure will not exceed one twelfth of the expenditure recorded in the 2006 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I address you, I address the President of Ukraine. We must not be irresponsible to our own people! That's why I'm calling you. For you, it's games, and for me, it's my whole life! For me, it's the 14th budget. So I urge you to vote for the budget, and I urge the President to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u86	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Now, there'll be a line. It's just that Mikola Janović didn't pay attention, so it's possible that during his report you had some followers in the BET and they applauded you very much during the interview. Please, Kirilenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, and in this case you have told the truth, but not all. Indeed, the government of Yehanurov offered a new consumer basket, which was calculated at minimum prices rather than at average prices. Yet the government of Yehanurov has greatly increased its consumption of food, nonfood, and services. And that's why the trade side of the tripartite social partnership agreement supported this decision, and it was adopted at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It wasn't released. What now prevents your government from issuing a decree with a new consumer basket enlarged, it is not clear. But it's understandable that even in the old methodology, you've understated the living minimum for Minpraci's non-workable for 26 bracelets and Minfin's for 16 bracelets. That's the truth. And I offer you to accept the President's proposals and to raise your pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Take into your hands, not yourself, but a comparative table. We will now be determined by the State Budget Act 2007. Since you and I have not taken into consideration the President's proposals for a draft for the 2007 State Budget, and therefore we have not obtained the necessary 300 votes for the budget as a whole, we have given a mandate or a decision on the drafting of the 2007 State Budget Act. Right now, I'm going to put the second table to the vote, the 18th of December committee proposal, that is, the completed project. In doing so, I will remind you that some of them or the vast majority of the proposals that we are about to consider are with you on Friday and we have considered and voted for them. But once again, because we were looking at the President's proposals and we didn't overcome the veto, I'm going to put even those proposals that were voted on Friday to a vote, because we're looking at the now revised State Budget Bill 2007. So the first proposal, once again, is the committee table of December 18, the registration number 2000. The first proposal is to put an end to article 20, part 12, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies for 2007. [[on the definition by the National Deputy of the size of the pension without limit and limit size]] I'll put this motion to the vote. [[12:33:20]] For 429 The budget has been adopted with the veto overtaken. Second offer. That is, the proposal to limit the marginal size of the pension is supported by 429 people's deputies. The second proposal that comes out of the same proposal is short for the purpose of establishing a maximum pension rate for any category of 10,000 since 1 January 2007. A month's worth of money. This is the second revision. Please vote on this proposal. [[12:34:14]] For 426 Offer supported. The third offer. This is about an additional 125 articles to establish that in 2007 all business subjects are suspended when imported, moved to special free economic zones and areas of priority for the development of excise goods and goods from the first to twenty - fourth group of OCTs, and so on. And there you are. I'll bet. Yes, please, Kirilchuk. Dear colleagues, everyone has the right to speak. an amendment that even.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u89	Adam Ivanovich! Kirilczuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to make a statement that neither in the first reading nor in the second reading nor when we voted on anything like this. Yesterday, there was an amendment to the budget committee to introduce this amendment, i.e. after the budget was actually adopted. Such an amendment was tabled without the author, without registration, without the signature, and even some representatives of the Party of Regions on the Committee of Budgets strongly denied such a “chemistry” mechanism. As a result, I feel that such an amendment today does not have the right to vote in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u90	I stress once again, we're looking at the amended State Budget Bill, which is the right to life. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u91	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I want to pay attention to both Adam Ivanovich and Mikli Janovich, and all the other national deputies here, who have reached an agreement between the government and the President, supported by the Supreme Council on all tax standards in a separate law. This law was worked out, and we voted for it. Please tell me, why does the budget regulation appear again in the text of the Tax Code? This is a departure from the agreements reached. This is a violation of the principles of budgeting. And that means you can't vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u92	Yes, please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I would like to remind the distinguished people's deputies of how much criticism has been made in this room on the grounds that not everything is covered up about the import of goods in free economic zones and areas of priority development. And we, considering the criticism that was, and first of all from the opposition, was made a decision, I made such an amendment, it is today, here the author, if he said that there was no author to strengthen this position and cover all possible, they say, windows after importing the goods without proper taxation, that is to say, eliminate any tax duties that are done. And the price of that question was not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u94	There's no more factions than factions, is there? Mikola Janović, please. No, sorry, one from the faction. “Our Ukraine” has already taken advantage of this possibility. Huh? Well, that's good of the committee. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Well, first of all, the People's Deputy Kirichuk was wrong -- that rule was on first reading, it was on first reading, it was adopted by the Supreme Council. And between the first and the second readings, it was indeed excluded. I'll explain what the point is. Free economic zones don't work for us, and this amendment has passed us into a tax law, which it's also fallen out of. And the tax law was voted and signed by the President without this rule. In accordance with the decisions of the courts for former investors working in free economic zones, their benefits can be clearly restored. They may enter into force, these benefits, from 1 January 2007. To prevent that from happening, we are in the process of withdrawing excise goods and group 1.24, i.e. not the resumption of benefits, but, on the contrary, the insurance measure, which, if our courts do decide for the benefit of investors in free economic zones, will prevent the possibility of uncontrollable imports into Ukraine of these goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Dusty as head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I really confirm that agreement that we should have removed tax standards from the budget law. This is a positive feature of this bill. Regrettably, there is now an amendment of Baraniuskoo to this text. And I would like to ask that if the Supreme Council were to decide on the adoption of this amendment, it is not clear why for free economic zones we are restricting imports of only subcontractive goods and goods of the 1st and 24th groups. We had an agreement that we were creating a single specific field from Ukraine's economy, and then in 2007 we had to distribute this amendment to Baranowski for all goods, not just the goods under excise and the 1st, 24th group. Because it can open up to entities that are registered in free economic zones and release non-taxable goods and goods not the 1st group, the 24th group, payment benefits and import duties, and VAT. So, Mikola Janovich, I would ask that the wording of this amendment be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u98	Yes, thank you, you've been exchanging your thoughts. I'm voting on the proposal of the national MP of Baranowski to add special positions to the article 125. Please vote. [[12:41:19]] For 246 Copy that. Yes, and there was the last amendment that we had already voted with you, but that was on Friday. The fourth right to add one more paragraph, third paragraph, to the final position: to direct in the established order revenue from the privatization of State property beyond the amount determined by article 23 of this Act to increase the minimum of living and minimum wage approved by this Act. Please vote. Take down the vote. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u99	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Adam Ivanovich, this amendment reminds me of the best Soviet times. Would you please tell me, is a nameless assignment ever given? Or perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers will amend the Budget Act with its own decision to distribute these funds. Please tell me what this amendment is aimed at: manual control in unlimited quantities? How illiterate it is to write the law on budget! Someone here was talking about non-professionalism. All right, doctor, heal yourself!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Indeed, Soviet times were not so bad. Yes, please, who else wants to say? Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Well, I'm listening and I'm watching the opposition position, well, that's ridiculous! Well, can't you read? Well, it's written "The End of Position" in letters: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine". And here's the amendment that we're about to vote on. What do you here “a voice crying in the wilderness ” show? Who are you asking, who is it addressed to? This amendment is addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, all of which, and then the Parliament will be in order! Let's vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u102	Kirilchuk, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u103	Adam Ivanovich, well, you're a witness, as last time this amendment was dictated. It was accepted by word, without record, without feed, without signature. As a result, there is neither author nor human responsibility nor address in this account. But think about it: If the privatization program is not overturned, what, the minimum of living will not rise?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u104	Yes, dear fellows, calm down! From the faction. I'm going to read it so everyone understands. First of all, make-up and stuff. Second, please listen to all “The Final Position”: “The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine during the first quarter of 2007 to monitor the appropriateness of the statutory minimum housing size of its real size and, if necessary, to submit appropriate proposals for amendments to the Ukraine State Budget Act 2007. That's all that matters. And then they're helping. Within a three-month period, to analyse the state of financial security for military personnel, the heads of staff and the ranks, and to decide on the application of the single rules for the formation of the salaries of civil servants and the financial security of military personnel, the heads of staff and the military warehouse for the phase-out of possible imbalances in the size of financial security and, if necessary, to submit appropriate legislative proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what we're talking about is a proposition. To guide in an orderly manner, which means by law, if in an orderly manner, coming from privatizing state property beyond the scope defined in article 23 of this Act, to increase the living minimum and minimum wage approved by this law. I think we're clear. I'm putting Amendment 4 to the vote. Please vote. That's how we care about the minimum of living. [[12:46:09]] For 245 By factions, please let the people know who is voting and who is voting. Region Party – 182, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 3, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. So all the amendments that were, all the amendments, the replica will be after the budget. All the amendments that you and I have made in the process have been voted on. We have the opportunity to put the law to the vote on Ukraine's state budget as a whole. I'm making this offer. A draft of the 2000 Bill on Ukraine’s State Budget 2007 is being drafted as a law. [[12:47:13]] For 245 The law is passed. The factions. Region Party - 184, Block Timoshenko – 5, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 4. Question completed. A break of up to 13 hours is announced for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u105	Yes, there's been an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I report to the precise composition of the leadership of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The leader of the faction Boki Ivan Sidorovich, the deputy heads of the faction of Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich and Savosin Hennaday Anatoliyovich. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovic, into the MP’s faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and on the basis of his personal statement, I report his membership in the Anti-Cristrian Coalition of the Deputies factions of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's go to chapter two. Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code, registration number 1037-1. [[concerning the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land]] Please, Valery Fedorovich Bevanko. It's the third time we've done it, I think we can do it today. Please, a few words and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Once again, as I return to this bill, I want your attention to the next one. The bill prohibits the purchase and sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2008. And the second. Purchase-sales or other means of estrangement of land owned by citizens and legal persons for the maintenance of agricultural and agricultural production, land in nature, i.e. private agriculture, as well as land, rations, except for the transfer of land to another land according to law and the removal of land for social purposes. At the same time, sales, or other ways of alienating land are introduced from the first, no. Sales and purchases have been effected since 1 January 2008 on the condition that the laws of Ukraine “On the State Land Cadastre” and “On the Land Market” have become effective, defining the characteristics of the circulation of state and municipal property, agricultural land. At the same time, in the Final Positions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposed, within a six-month period following the entry into force of the Act, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws amending the Laws on Mortgage and Land Rental on the possibility of acquiring property rights to land and obtaining loans, including in a timely manner. Also, develop and approve legislation to improve the assessment of agricultural land. Thus, your bill adopted unanimously by the Committee on Agropolitics and Land Relations is fully in line with the substance of the bill adopted in the first reading, but it is more stringent with regard to the terms and conditions for the sale of land to individual farmers. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposed draft of the bill on second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u107	Thank you. We'll vote. We'll vote in an article, and then we'll see. Dear colleagues! I remind you again that we will be back with you in this bill for the third time and we will continue to retreat with you. Today we must finally determine the fate of this law. If you have a table, take the second replacement reading, please, and we'll do it in an article form. And you, please, Valery Fedorovich, stay in the rostrum for the time being. Invite the National Deputies to come into the session hall, because we need votes either in favour or in favour, well better in favour. Again, I note what has become a stumbling block or why we are returning to it for the third time. The point is, when the bill was drafted for second reading, the committee changed its first reading. And what we accepted in the first reading, the committee essentially rejected and introduced its, as it were, other amendments and suggestions. Other suggestions, as it were, have already crossed out the first reading. Therefore, we need to be very careful and to walk in an articleistic manner in order to restore what is said to be the truth. Please log in from factions per minute. We're going to assume that three factions just want to express themselves. Please point to the sign-up table. One minute with the motive for voting, Matvienkov, please. Tissue is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u108	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. We have repeatedly expressed our faction's position on the position of the land law. We have supported and will support today's vote that was adopted on first reading, which determines the mechanism for the sale of land after the adoption of a number of laws listed in the law, so that these laws are here. This is the first moment. And second moment. We are opposed to opening a fort, we will say, reformatting the land of agricultural crops under construction, under a mechanism that would open up the possibility of its trade. We will therefore support the option, once again, which we voted on in the first reading, and the option that was agreed and signed in the agreement when we signed the coalition treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u109	Yes, please, Tkachenko, the Communist faction. Next from "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill should finally be adopted in the second reading, but with an appropriate addition to paragraph 15. You've been given these amendments, and it's about purposeful land use, and not allowing for a replacement of a target is the main question. And if we don't introduce it to this bill, this bill won't work, but the land, both by changing the target assignment, will be sold and sold and sold. That's why the whole point of this bill is not to allow for targeted re-profiling. So there are nine categories of land that we have to protect. To that end, you have made this proposal that we complete this bill in a second reading and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u111	Yes, thank you. Who's from our Ukraine? Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Questions about the earth are relevant to society as a whole, and the question of the Crimean situation is the most painful. I would like you to remember how difficult this project was to discuss on the first reading. Many of the national deputies voted in favour of him, for there were formulations under appropriate laws and so forth. [[about what the reporter has just mentioned]] I think that what the committee did, it fundamentally changed the bill. Therefore, honorable Adam Ivanovich, considering that such situations have been in our hall and this is what the Rules require, should you not allow them to do. Adam Ivanovich, I want you to listen. You should not allow this project to be discussed because the committee has fundamentally changed what the deputies have agreed to. If you are Adam Ivanovich now, you will continue the discussion. I want to pay attention to the colleagues who voted at the time, since such a promise has been recorded that no one agrees with your intentions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that the committee has the right to do so, and you and I have the right to correct the committee, so we accept the final edition, not the committee. That is why we will vote as we did in the first reading, or what the committee proposes. We'll be clear with you. And so let's do it this way. Because it was the most. Are they immobilized? Dear colleagues, we've had our objections, i.e. arguments before the 14th. We voted with you in the first reading in one edition, and the committee is proposing in another edition. I see that there's basically a denial of the committee's drafting. Do I get it right? Has the committee already agreed to go back to the previous editorial? Please put it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee in its last edition has amended all proposals for the introduction of legislation in the essence of this bill, which has been cooled down in the previous context. So I'd like to point out to Deputy Chubarov that he's wrong about the fact that all the bills that were introduced by Tushko brought them into the last edition that I read to you. All of this is foreseen, and the committee has accepted it. Today, additional suggestions have simply been made by Deputy Tkachenka to make further changes to this edition. That's why I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u115	Valery Fedorovich, okay. So, come on, what's the final vote we're going to be voting on? Read it. Valery Fedorovich, show me your chart, I'll see if they're similar. Valery Fedorovich, this is your chart and what the committee has prepared. Whoever has the table, take it in your hands and we'll vote in a different way. In the first edition, be careful, in the first paragraph of paragraph 14, on the first reading, sorry, paragraph 14, we accepted the following wording: “By 1 January 2007, it is prohibited to introduce land-paid rights into statutory farm funds.” It was working. To make such changes to chapter 10 of the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, I'll report for now, listen to me so far, the reporter has already done his job, he'll just be speaking the committee's opinion now. To make the following changes to chapter 10 of the “Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Code of Earth”: “The fourteenth paragraph should be deleted from chapter 10 of the “Transitional Positions of the Code of Earth”. Deputy Longy suggested that the fourteenth paragraph should read as follows: “By 1 January 2008, it is prohibited to introduce land-paid rights to statutory farm funds.” The committee took that into account. I am proposing to the committee first that by 1 January 2008 it is prohibited to introduce land-paid rights to statutory funds of farm societies. Please vote. [[13:36:46]] For-360 This amendment has been accepted. The eating correction of the second, rejected: section 14, section 10, delete. That is, what was suggested in the first version. Food, you insist on the basis of your own. Please, Zjijenova microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I am convinced that we must cancel the ban on making, let's say, one piece of property, our own pie into the statutory fund, because it's a real ban on own property. And each person has the right to manage his property as he needs to. So please put to the vote in accordance with the Constitution, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u117	Okay. I can put it to a vote and put it to a vote, but I remind you that we've already accepted that by January 1st it's still forbidden to do so. But as Posjenov insists, I'm putting amendment number two to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:13]] For-34 No, that's right, dear fellows. We accepted 360, which is forbidden until January 1st. Be careful, Scrooge, 3rd Amendment. Paragraph 1 of chapter 10 of the first paragraph of chapter 10 is written in such an order that it is taken into account in an editorial way. [[Earth’s Transitional Positions]] There's no Dwarf? Yes. Yes, please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, paragraph 15 is amended as follows: It's not out of voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u119	You've been handed over. Alexander Mikolaiovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u120	I would like to add the words “except the removal of the ransom for social needs”. Next. Paragraph “B”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u121	Wait. Wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u122	This is paragraph “A”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u123	15th paragraph. To the first. Point. Subparagraph “A”. Please. Until 1 January 2008, it is not allowed: (a) The purchase and sale of land for the agricultural purpose of state and municipal property, except for the removal of the ransom for social purposes. I ask you to vote on such an amendment. Vote. [[13:39:56]] For 243 243, copy. The factions later. Paragraph “B”. Please, Tachenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u124	Paragraph “B”. After the words “other way of alienating land” add to the words “and changing the target destination of land use”, further to the text. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u125	Yeah, I'll read it. Be careful. Subparagraph “B” buy-in or other means of alienating land and replacing the purpose of land use, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, for the maintenance of commercial agricultural production, land plots allocated in the area to owners of land-based rations for the maintenance of private agriculture, as well as land-based rations for the transfer to an inheritance, land exchange to another land area in accordance with the Law on the Removal of the Buy-out of Land for Social Needs. This is my vote. Vote. [[13:41:29]] For a hundred and Not supported. Tweezer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, this is a robbery. If we don't accept this, I'll give you just one example in the Kyiv region. This is where Hubsky and his companions are agitating. They bought 16,000 hectares of land at a price of between a hundred and three hundred dollars per hectare. And now they're going to sell a hundred dollars. Now count: 16,000 hectares will be sold for two billion dollars. Now let's put this on the whole Republic. Is it possible to accept what they are doing today? They want to sell this land out. Therefore, we must avoid making a deliberate change in the earth. There are nine categories of the target earth. And I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u127	A sponge microphone, a replica. We saw him once in six months, let him say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I appear more than once in six months. I already offered to buy you glasses so you could see me. And in this session, I reported three laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u129	That's very good. But this session has been going on for more than six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u130	The second question is about the hectare, Alexander Mikolaiovich, is an open lie that you say: about what I bought the hectares. Question three. I'll remind you. Hubski personally voted in favour of this amendment. This time. Second question: Julia Timoshenko's block, Turkin's Alexander Valentinovich -- maybe you know that last name -- and Olga Bodnar passed a bill that we'd like to consider at this session: a ban on a target assignment. You're making a sound right now, because you're making a circus, and you had to put it on the committee. But we did, and today he is on the committee to ban the change of purpose. And we voted for that change. So don't tell stories here, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u131	You've already exchanged. You can't have one or half a minute. You exchanged lines. You called him, he gave you an answer. I don't care what the answer is, you can talk to each other later. He gave an answer that he was capable of, that he was not capable of. Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Because. The factions of the last vote? Show me if you can still do it. Region Party 3, Block Timoshenko - 54, Our Ukraine - 2, Socialists - 25, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 2. Then, then, dear colleagues, then, dear colleagues, I put to the vote paragraph 15 of Chapter 10 the content that was accepted in the first edition. I read: “To implement no later than 1 January 2008 the full market for land in state and municipal property and the land of agricultural production. The purchase and sale of agricultural land shall not be permitted until appropriate legislative acts have been adopted.” Now I'm going to find out: what acts are these? Yes, “admit Ukraine's laws on the characteristics of land circulation in state and municipal property, as well as on the characteristics of land circulation in agriculture, adopt Ukraine's Law on State Land cadastre, ensure the development of land mortgage lending by amending Ukraine's Laws on Mortgage and Land Rental, on the possibility of repossessing property rights in land areas for obtaining loans, including long-term loans, developing and approving regulatory acts on improving the valuation of agricultural land”. I put to the vote an editorial adopted in the first reading. Vote, edition of the first reading. [[13:46:11]] For-76 Not accepted. Then let's go with the committee's proposals. I then place sub-paragraph “B”, sub-paragraph “B”, without words, without the words “and replacement of the target” of land use. I mean, in the paper that the committee is offering, without the addition of our colleague Tuckenka. I'd like to make a statement. Read it? I'm reading. Take down the vote. Subparagraph “B” refers to the vote of the committee – the sale-purchase. That is, by 1 January 2008, no sale-for-sales or otherwise alienation of land owned by citizens and other legal persons for commercial agricultural production of land in the area, owner of land for the management of private agriculture, as well as land parts, except for inheritance, land exchange to another land area in accordance with the law and removal of the purchase of land for social purposes.” [[pears]] [[pears]] And so on and so forth. I'm betting on the vote on the committee's proposal. [[13:47:39]] For 288 Copy that. Factions: Region Party - 182, Block Timoshenko - 67, Our Ukraine - 3, Socialist Party - 30, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 6. Yes, Sigal. Well, it's clear that we accepted it in the paper that we voted for. Now “The End Position ”:“ This law takes effect from the day it was published. The Cabinet of Ministers shall, within a period of six months following the entry into force of this law, be granted this law. to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft amendments to the Laws on Mortgage and Land Rental on the possibility of setting up land ownership rights for receiving loans, including long-term loans, to develop and approve legal instruments for improving the assessment of agricultural land. And Tuckenko, microphone, please. Tissue, please, your amendment to the final position. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u132	I ask you to include in paragraph "a" and to add: "to article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Code on improving the change in the destination of land". You, my dear friends, do not understand what you voted for. You voted in favour of changing the purpose of the agricultural arrangement to any other arrangement that would be available for sale. You voted for it. And Julia directs Tomenkom and directs Hubsky. And you vote, you support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u133	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues. I can hear you. Hear me too. I can hear you, hear me too. I can hear you. Now, Julius Volodymyrically. I can hear you, hear me too. Dear colleagues, as you can see, the earth is passing through or we are around this issue far more acutely than the basic law that seems to be more important. Julia Volodymyrna's replica, please. They called it a name, they called it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u134	Adam Ivanovich, the problem is, out of voice, they're treating a non-individual dictatorship like Tachchenka, just some nonsense. Our faction supports the banning of a change of purpose, and we are ready to put it to the vote again clearly and clearly. A party of regions does not vote for this because there are large manipulations with agricultural land. I'd like you to make it clear right now that you're banning a change of purpose. And we're willing to vote for all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, calm down. Be careful. First of all, not out of voice, because these supplements are given to you. Now, I'm going to read it in the text that Tuckenko suggests, listen carefully. “The Cabinet of Ministers shall submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, within a six-month period following the entry into force of this Act, draft laws amending the Laws on Mortgage and Land Rental on the possibility of imposing property rights on land for obtaining loans, including fixed-term loans, and to article 20 of the Ukraine Land Code on improving the change in the target destination of land. That's what I'm doing. I'm voting for the final position. Vote. Take off the vote, take off the vote. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. We're going to vote on this paper as I suggested, and then we're going to go back to that paper. No, Julia Volodymyrna, that's it. Dear colleagues, listen, please. We're going to make this proposal Tuck, and now I'm going to tell you, the proposal by Tuck about the ban, the ban was only supported by 107 votes, so now we're going to vote for the end of that position and we're going to go back to that vote. Okay. Whoever's behind this, be careful. Please don't control it, everyone, because it's not going to work. Who's to go back to the vote, to the vote, to vote, to vote on sub-paragraph B 15 on elimination, about the problem that Tkachenko was talking about. Who's in charge of coming back? And then we'll make it up. We vote to go back. [[13:53:26]] For 181 The factions. Region Party – 3, Block Timoshenko – 114, “Our Ukraine” – 10, SPI – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. We're not back. Sign up for a minute from the factions. From factions. Please, Chubarov. Tuck, excuse me, Bondar Alexander. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please microphone Bondaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Let's stop this circus, you see, people don't understand the MPs anymore and the TV people we vote for. There's an amendment from the voice, then they rephrase, Chechtev fits, something tells, he doesn't understand, then they vote. We've turned such an important issue of selling land into a circus. Let's stop by and let the committee representative clearly determine the position of the committee and we'll vote normally. We look like clowns here, what are we doing, Adam Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I reject your accusations because they're totally unfounded, the committee said he gave you the table, we go on the tables and we vote. So the charges are totally inappropriate. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u138	Socialist faction, Baranowski. Dear colleagues! So you and I have agreed that in order to let the earth go into the market, we have to do it in a civilized way and write the relevant laws, so let's do it consistently. If we want to do all of this on the basis of legislation, why do we leave this lattice about changing the purpose of the earth so that it can be stretched out today? Thousands of applications are now being considered throughout Ukraine regarding the change in the purpose of the earth’s assignment. I mean, it's not appropriate to switch them into other spheres, and they could be sold freely. That's why I don't understand what we're doing. I would like to refer to the Party of Regions and to the faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! If you're behind a transparent, civilized market, let's support Tuck. If you are in favor of sharing and selling the land under a blanket, do not vote. So the request to support, after all, the offer of Tachchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u139	Please, from Timoshenko's "Julia Block" Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u140	I'd like to explain to everyone who's listening and watching on TV right now, the situation. Today, peasant pies are paid for by coins, and then they change their lands for an assignment, make these lands with a building permit, and sell these land hundreds of times more expensive than the farmers ’. First, we deprive peasants of the right to get a real market price for this land, and secondly, we destroy our country's agricultural assets. Now our faction has voted in favour of banning the change in the destination of agricultural land. Uncontrollable, on bribes, as it is now. On this earth’s principal corruption. A party of regions has preserved corruption in the land market today, communists are in one coalition with thieves from the Party of Regions, and the land will remain a major corruption element in the land-building system today. I ask you to re-vote this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u141	Julia Volodymyrna, you saw the vote, the Communists voted like you did, don't blame them. And that's another matter, don't blame me. Tweezer, please. It's all going to be the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, if Julia Volodymyr is true to what she said, I apologize. This is the first time. Secondly, if we don't introduce the notion of "unacceptance of a change of purpose" then the privatisation that took place in 15 years of agri-industrial industry is a penny compared to that model that works on land sales. So I gave you an example of 16,000. A hectare of land that is now accumulated in the Kyiv region is now worth 1.6 billion dollars, and it has been bought for 1 million dollars. 600 grand. That's what I'm talking about. Think about what this is all about. So we have no right to make a purposeful change. Support this offer that I have made and that I have supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Acid, faction of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I ask you to calm down and address those who want to be more holy to the Pope. The fact is that the faction of the Party of the Regions did not support this decision in the first vote, because the honourable colleague Tkachenko did not make this proposal literally out of a voice and in the last second so that our faction would have a balanced decision to make on this issue. But now that we have consulted, we make a decision: To return to it we propose and support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u145	Yes, dear colleagues, representatives of all factions spoke. Be careful, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to go back to voting the issue of banning the change of destination. Please vote. [[13:59:58]] For 354 We're back. The factions, please. Region Party - 166, Block Tymoshenko - 120, Our Ukraine - 11, Socialists - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 6. Now I put this sub-paragraph "b" as follows: “By 1 January 2008, no purchase-sales or other means of alienating land and changing the purpose of land use, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, for commercial and agricultural production.” I'll put it to the vote. What's in the table. [[14:00:54]] For 393 The factions. Region Party – 175, Block Timoshenko – 112, Our Ukraine – 49, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional - 6. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u146	Adam Ivanovich, you know, we had a very interesting vote right now. Listen to what we just voted on. We have banned the change in the targeted assignment of land owned by citizens, literally. And we're talking not about that, but about the change in the target assignment of areas that are in communal property, they're coming out of ore land, and they're being transferred to another class. That's why we didn't close anything with that vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u147	We voted correctly and Julia Volodymyrna will tell you that you also voted correctly. Yes, now all we have to do is vote for the End, and it also logically comes out of what we have accepted, that is, with the addition. The Cabinet of Ministers will submit to the Supreme Council, within a six-month period after the Act has become effective, draft laws amending the laws of Ukraine on mortgage and land leases regarding the possibility of land rights being imposed on land for obtaining loans, including long-term loans. And in article 20 of the Ukraine Code of Land on Improving the Change in Targeted Land Assignment. Please, Timoshenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u148	Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we have now voted not to change the target assignment for private areas only. And then there's the land of the state reserve, there's the land that hasn't been distributed yet -- it's wrong. So I would ask that we not only make this decision in private areas, but also in the land of the state reserve, which is not distributed. And by the way, there's the biggest corruption that today is making up the entire corrupt model of trade in land in shadow mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, don't raise your hand, no one gets a word until we vote on what I put to the vote. And then, when we adopt the Law as a whole, you have to speak up. We're talking about the end of the line. If anyone has until the end of the line, please. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u150	Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, I do not understand why the Law on Land cadastre has fallen out of the list of legislative acts entrusted with the preparation of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the basic law that will prevent us from speculating the earth. If the assessment of the land area is high from the very beginning, not as it is at price today, it will stop the wild market for land use on this intermediary. So I propose that this list of laws will necessarily include, as you put it, the draft Land Cadastre Act by January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u151	Valery Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to point out that you don't have this bill before you. Nothing has been removed from the bill. I read literally: “The purchase-sale or other way of alienating land and land-pile particles as defined in paragraphs A and B of this paragraph is introduced as of 1 January 2008, subject to the entry into force of the laws of Ukraine on the State Land cadastre and on the land market, defining the characteristics of the circulation of state and municipal property and land of agricultural production. So basically the text of the law is this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Maybe we'll just repeat it in the Final Positions as the Cabinet of Ministers. It's in the text, and we're still in the End Positions, and we're asking the Cabinet of Ministers about these laws. He is said to have been accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u154	Yes, accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! If accepted in the first reading. Hunger, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u156	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, draft law on the State Land cadastre adopted in the first reading. In our second reading, we will consider it during a January session from January 9th to January 12. I would ask you to support this bill, and we will definitely accept it. In our second reading, we will consider a bill on the land market. This will be in the next session, so don't worry, all the bills written in this law will be considered and adopted with your participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u157	Okay. Once again, my esteemed colleagues, these are the mandates of the Cabinet of Ministers to submit those bills that we do not yet have. And those who are, you've already been told by the chairman of the committee and the reporter that they are. So, obviously, we don't have to write it down, because then we're going to make that bill. Please, Chubarov and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u158	Adam Ivanovich, I don't remember us adopting the law like that, so, you know, sublimely after that Earth code, as far as the earth is concerned. I'm deliberately referring to the name Tuck Alexander Mikolaiovich, so that he can take the line, because I think because it's done that way, you know, from the voice, we've done a lot of things there, and I'm sorry and let the voters excuse me, that's stupid. Where we forbade the removal of land, and what I support, it's not the removal, it's the change in the assignment of land for private persons, it's the ownership of private property. But we banned it from law firms. Look, tomorrow a city wants to solve the problems of utilities or housing for its people, they're going to make proposals to the Supreme Council according to the procedure for extending their borders. And we've already forbidden them to do that procedure. So I think that the law needs to be sent back to the committee for a detailed study, and so that we can all make amendments that, you know, don't allow us to develop, including cities, so that we don't record them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, you yourself have said correctly that any allocation of land now will depend on us with you, on the Supreme Council, who will address it, you said it right. If anyone wants to expand the territorial boundaries, this is decided by the Supreme Council in accordance with the Codex earth. I put the vote to an end. We don't make the law. I am voting on paragraph “A” of the Final Regulations. Submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws amending the laws of Ukraine on mortgages and land leases regarding the possibility of land rights being set aside to obtain loans, including long-term loans, and to article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Code on improving the change of destination. This is my vote. Vote. [[14:09:29]] For 364 Copy that. Now, please, by factions, if you have any observations, because we're going to put the whole bill to the vote. Please. Timishenko, please. Tymoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to scattered agricultural lands, there are up to 15 percent of the land stock and the land reserve. And if we do. They are managed by district administrations, by the way. I would ask that right now we clarify this and that we ban the temporary change of assignment, not only to private lands, but to the land of the agricultural reserve and land. I'd like to put this to a vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u161	Yeah, we've already voted that. Please, Valery Fedorovich, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u162	We are in the first paragraph of this article. Paragraph 15 of Subparagraph “A” has already been voted in favour of this sub-item “Buying and selling land for the agricultural purpose of state and municipal property”, in addition to removing the buying-in for social purposes. I mean, it's forbidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u163	Your proposal is in item “A”, in the first paragraph, and we voted on the addition in item “B”. Please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the "Our Ukraine" faction has supported many of the amendments that have been voted on today, which are intended to normalize the land situation, including taking appropriate legislative action to preserve the land fund. However, honourable national deputies and honourable Adam Ivanovich, in the 15th amendment in paragraph “B” there is a second paragraph indicating that this ban is lifted from January 1, 2008, provided that a number of laws are in force. It seems to me that since we don't have any confidence that these laws are going to become effective, we have to take this amendment down in this part. And if we figure out at the end of 2008 that these laws have become effective, then there will be no problem. And if we don't make it through these laws, we have to look at the situation again. That is why we cannot fully uphold the law. It's for an indefinite period, and the law essentially introduces a moratorium for an indefinite period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u165	Who's in favor of supporting Onichuk's offer, please be sure. [[14:12:25]] For 121 Not supported. Matvienkov. Sergei Matvienkov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u166	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, we have now worked very hard on the basis of the law, which has solved the main problem: we have imposed a moratorium on the sale of land before 2008 – the first. Secondly, this law has closed the fort that has allowed us, not us, but the one who wanted to re-profilage the land is the second moment. Thirdly, we have set up a programme of legislation that needs to be adopted in order to fully enter the land market in the future, so that the distribution of the land does not become shiller methods, so that its price is clearly determined and that the sale mechanism is clear and transparent. Any changes or attempts to change things today or now from the voice, I think it's just an attempt to break the law. Adam Ivanovich, we have adopted and today have worked out a normal version of the law, made a normal, balanced decision, a political decision. I suggest we put it in general and stop the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u167	Yes, Sulkowski. ‘Regions’. I shall continue the session until the end of the vote. Two more minutes and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, you know that with regard to the agricultural assignment of land, we have adopted both the amendments and the decisions of the committee also, virtually, it coincided. As for the reserve fund and the stock of land that had been handed over long ago, according to the Law of Ukraine to local self - government, they could not be voted out. Why? Because tomorrow the village council will face the challenge of assigning at least one land to the family for construction. And what will the Supreme Council turn to the opposition for permission? It's just nonsense. Therefore, such an offer cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u169	Yes, please, Timoshenko, after that, Hunger and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, building needs within the countryside, there's nothing problematic about it. Once again, everyone who wants to shut down corruption with land, land of stock and land of reserves today is item "A". But it was only in paragraph “B” in private lands that we banned the change of assignment. And in paragraph "A," we didn't make such a ban on you. And this remains the most practical loophole for avoiding the Law’s fulfillment today. And I would like to ask now in paragraph “A”, where there is land of stock and reserve, also to ban the change of destination of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u171	A clear offer. Now, Gladys, I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. Sulkowski has already spoken from your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, all the suggestions made both on the committee and today are practically included in the Law. The law is balanced with the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land. I suggest: Adam Ivanovich, put to the vote in general. Because if we make other amendments, we'll balance it. This bill can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u173	Right. Valerius Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u174	I'd like to add one thing: we've put a complete, practically complete ban on the sale of agricultural land and their conversion to market laws. But if we are now looking for any more rats in this, or small ones, that don't affect the rotation of the land in the country at all, then we will bring this law to a full balance. I want to make a point: with regard to change of purpose, we have it regulated by administrative factors and legislation. The thing is, it's all settled. So the more we put in additional restrictions and burdens now, the more people want to do it, in principle, who want not to vote in favour of the law in general, so that the land market will go free on January 1st. That's basically the reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u175	Calm down. Another vote before the general. I propose Timoshenko that item "a" does not allow the purchase and sale of land for the agricultural purpose of state and municipal property and the change of destination. Who's behind this offer, please be sure. [[14:17:52]] For-160. Not accepted. Factions: Region Party 2, Block Timoshenko - 109, Our Ukraine - 7, Socialists - 20, Communists - 20, non-fractional - 2. Dear colleagues, we've been through everything we can. I'm betting on acceptance as a whole. We've already talked about motives. What were we talking about? What were we talking about, excuse me? The faction was performed by Onechuk. He's your faction manager, one of the faction leaders. Have you ignored it? Well, Klukkowski, please. Because they have no unity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u176	Adam Ivanovich, it's been a long time since you held a meeting as spontaneously as you do today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m0.u177	Turn off the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. Please vote. [[14:19:12]] For 354 Copy that. The factions, please. Region Party – 180, Block Timoshenko – 109, “Our Ukraine” – 8, Socialists – 20, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. It's 4:00 a.m.
