ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:45]] They registered in the 397 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Mikli Mikhailovich Hapoczka. Let us welcome him and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on March 26, there were elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the local authorities. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the winners of the election race and to wish for fruitful success in the name of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at today’s meeting a number of urgent bills. Dear colleagues, one more question. Since parliamentary hearings are scheduled to take place on April 26 until the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl AES accident, we cannot close the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we can do this after April 26th. I would like to deal with it with understanding. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Then, at the Conciliation Council, we discussed this issue, then we should cancel the decision, and the Conciliation Council on Parliamentary Hearings took the appropriate decision. Otherwise, if there is no desire to gather to close the summit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will automatically stop its activities with the start of the first day of the session of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine and do not need to look for any political subtexts here. You have a list of issues to consider. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is being announced for consideration. [[on the cancellation of the non-touching of MPs]] Two factions are asked to announce a 30 - minute recess for consultations on the electoral campaign. No, dear colleagues, I have announced the matter. Let us finish our consideration of the matter, and then we will continue to consult. Please calm down. Yes, please, Boris Bespallian. Ah, Yuri Klukkowski will report. Please. Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! The problem of the so - called touchiness of local council members has become a major public announcement and has become one of the central themes of the electoral battalions. This subject has long been discussed with us in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In February of this year, the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council entrusted our committee with a number of bills introduced by the President of Ukraine, as well as by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Onopenko and Zaj Ivan, to draft a harmonized bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. This bill under the heading 7732-7 was introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of our committee, representatives of various factions. This bill provides for the deletion of part of article 30 of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which provides that the discovery of a criminal case is possible only after a previous decision of the Council. So this rule is proposed to be removed. At the same time, it is suggested that certain restrictions be established, or some order, to draw members of the local council to responsibility. These positions are set out in a new edition of article 31 of the law. The bill stipulates that a criminal case involving a member of the local council may be violated by the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, the city of Kiev or Sevastopol, within its powers. And the discovery of a criminal case is reported no later than the next working day. A precautionary measure for a member of the local council in the form of a nondeparture subscription or a security deposit can only be applied in court. And the court that chose such a precaution should immediately, not later than the next working day, notify the appropriate local council. Thus, the level of the prosecutor who can open a criminal case has been increased, and there is only a court order to be taken into custody. At the same time, there is an immediate message from the council that excludes the possibility of, as it were, a quiet, secret discovery of a criminal case that no one knows about until the thunder strikes. We believe that this way of bringing members of the local council to justice, first of all, excludes the abuse of law enforcement organs that are possible for pressure on members of the local council, and, second of all, removes this already glorious inviolability of members of local councils, which has caused a general lack of acceptance in society. The committee is asking for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we have long discussed this issue, since virtually all factions have signed under the relevant bill, we have every reason to put it to the vote for adoption of the law. For reasons of vote, please sign in for five minutes. Yes, please, Vladimir Demjohin, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u4	I ask that you pass the word to Valentine Ivanovich Landik. Landik Valentin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u5	Landik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies. Vladimir Mihajlovich, let's be consistent. If we say that we are removing the intrusiveness of local council members, then let us withdraw from the Supreme Council. It'll make sense. Everyone was speaking, and let's take a normal picture of everyone, that's the first question. And the second question is, we came here today to close the session. We've been meeting, the last of you to report, and we're closing the session today. You begin by saying that some consensus council has decided and so forth. Please explain, that's not how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u7	Yes, please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u8	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with your thesis that the draft law can be voted on, we can and must agree. The question matured and matured. But I would like to draw our attention to the fact that the essence of this bill is not that a certain part of the MPs will be deprived of the so-called inviolability, but that our people, society and our politicians do not believe in those they choose. If we are so fierce and insistent that even all MPs are bandits, then who are elected to the political party lists, then whom are our people choosing? I was going to say at the end of my lineup, it's a key question, and we're going to have to go back and forth to it. And we support this bill without a doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u9	Uncle, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Taran. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u11	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u12	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, we have to finish the session with dignity, and we have to adopt a law to abolish the MP's in touch with the local council. It's categorical. We've told people about it, we've promised, and our faction will definitely be behind it. And the attempt by the “Regions” to bind members of the Supreme Council with the MP's in touch, so as not to vote for these, is hypocrisy. Today, by enacting a law to abolish the MP's in touch with local council members, we have to initiate, our faction, we now have over a hundred men in faction, we will definitely initiate the lifting of the immunity of the members of the Supreme Council. Everyone has to be equal before the law. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, according to your signature in the Supreme Council, lies are distributed. Let's finish the session with dignity. Where the papers are given. And there's someone who stole the votes. Let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u13	I want to tell Victor Terrence, it's not my practice to hand out fakes. Look where my signature is. Razwadowski, please, Victor Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the word to Alexander Markovich Bandur.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u15	Bandoon. I didn't mention your last name. So sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u16	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On March 26, 680,000 deputies — the best people — were elected to local self-government, the political forces that you named on your lists. I wanted to stress here that I was referring to the leaders of those parties that are the winners. In district, district, city, rural councils factions from your representatives will now be created. [[of the village]] Why do we have to put tags on them so early that they're criminals who need to be hurt by the apriors to prepare for trial? We were always happy when the house burned down and someone was dragged to prison. Now we are in a position to rejoice. We're completing our duties. Let the Supreme Council make these decisions unpopular.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u17	Matvienkov. Please, please, I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u18	Please give it to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u19	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u20	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. You see, it was this Supreme Council that decided to grant appropriate status to members of the local councils. We have seen that in these elections there have been many people with criminal backgrounds and those who are now in hiding from criminal responsibility. We need to resolve this issue today in order to ensure that they do not gain the status of a deputy and sit down and continue as deputies to direct their criminal groups. That's the first one. Second, on April 26th, let's switch parliamentary hearings to public hearings, and today we close the session. I'm asking you to put this question to a vote, and we've voted on it, and we've voted on it, and we've voted on it. We understand why this is being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we exchanged the reasons for the vote. Let me explain some of the issues that have been raised. Valentin Landik, on the inviolability of national MPs. I want to say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is today trying to solve the problem of the agreements reached between the President, between the faction of the Regions and between Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov's responsibility to support the Prime Minister's candidacy and the signing of the Law on the Inviolability of Deputies of Local Councils. So please, Valentina Ivanovich, pursue your agreements with those with whom you signed a memorandum. About closing the session. Please make a draft decree to cancel parliamentary hearings. The Supreme Council will make the right decision, or we will violate the relevant regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the calendar plan. Please, come on. But yesterday at the Conciliation Council, everyone came to the conclusion that the issue was of exclusive political importance and that parliamentary hearings should be held, especially since the Supreme Council of Ukraine had made the appropriate decision on this issue. And once again, dear colleagues, don't look for a political foundation here. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Replica, please, Landik. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, you remembered who signed with whom. We all know that the President of Ukraine withdrew his signature under the memorandum they signed. Please don't tie each other up now. We all went to the polls and said that, uh, the depravity of all the deputies. That is why we insist, if we are untouchable, on the members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u23	Valentina Ivanovich, there is great wickedness. You are well aware that the status of immunity of members of the local councils is regulated by law, and with regard to MPs, Ukrainian national deputies, these are changes to the Constitution. You will have the opportunity in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the largest faction, to make appropriate changes to the Constitution. I'm sure the Ukrainian society will be very supportive. I'll see how you implement this initiative. I said once again, Valentin Ivanovich, calm down, here all the laws are well-known. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There is a motion for adoption in the first reading and as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, registration number 7732-7. Please vote. [[10:19:26]] For 296 The law is passed. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 41, People's Party – 31, “Our Ukraine” – 39, SPI – 26, National Block – 17, SDPU – 2, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 13, Revival – 2, Reforms and Order – 13, non-fractional – 23. The law, Your Honor, I would like to stress once again, accepted. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on to the subject. Will you speak the word? Please, Alexander Moroz, on behalf of the two factions in connection with the 30 - minute recess, is now available. For what reason were they taking a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Such a statement about the political situation. After the vote on March 26, people await a clear conclusion to the political campaign, the beginning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the formation of a coalition of factions and the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. And although the count of votes has been made with numerous violations of the law, as revealed by the facts of fraud, bribery and blackmail in the entire selection of citizens, it is final with the adjustments that will be made to the vote count in cases provided for by law. Such violations could have been much smaller if, after the 2004 elections, the perpetrators were justly punished. The inaction of power in this regard deserves the condemnation and appropriate response of the President and those political forces that will participate in the human resources appointments, based on the 2006 elections. As the authorised representatives of the Yulia Block Timoshenko know, “Our Ukraine” and the Soccer Ukraine agreed on the text of the memorandum of order and the conditions for the establishment of the constitutional framework of the Parliamentary Coalition, while the Socialists do not deny participation in the power of other political forces, with an important goal in mind – to overcome the artificially imposed tensions on the East-West line. Today, nothing prevents the signing of the memorandum, there are subjective factors that characterize the relationship between “Our Ukraine” and Block Timoshenko. Once again, we insist on the accelerated alignment of the positions of these political forces, the transparent and transparent discussion and the conclusion of agreements. Instead, on April 3, this year, we received from “Our Ukraine” a new draft of the corresponding document the content of which brings us all back two months ago and, in fact, means trying to delay the process and win time. The question is, Why? The answer lies in a series of actions aimed at achieving a dangerous goal for the country: blocking political reform, bringing society and the state back to dictatorship. To that end, contrary to the well - known decision of the Supreme Council of December 14, last year, the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is imposed today. There is no doubt that the Constitutional Court needs to be created as soon as possible, but not to pressure it, to seek the adventurous decisions of the rejection of the Act “On making changes to the Constitution”. The introduction of such a Law stops an attempt to abolish it, perhaps only with the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its fifth vocation. This is what the Constitution provides. On another occasion, we state that the revision of political reform will not pass. Authoritarianism, which in 15 years of independence has brought Ukraine an endless range of woes, has paralysed the entire legal system of corruption, theft, and bribery, must go on forever. We demand that we stop trying to push through parliament decisions that are risky for society that do not take into account the political preferences of citizens found during the March 26 vote. We suggest that we stop holding plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, focus on drafting normative acts in committees and factions, prepare a decent closure of the last session of Parliament for the fourth call. We believe that the leaders of all the political parties and blocs represented in the next parliament, first of all BUT and our Ukraine, Any warning? Did you agree to the schedule? More correctly, how do we deal with this issue? Thank you. Please. The chairman of the Temporary Special Commission, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen! The Central Election Commission published previous election summaries to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the near future, we hope that the conclusion of the election to local self - government will finally be completed. Clearly, a thorough analysis of the race and the outcome of the election campaign, its positive and negative sides, the political and social consequences can only be made after the official vote has been published. It takes time. But the first conclusions can and should be made now, as it were, by hot leads. The important thing that we think is important is that, despite the difficulties that have taken place, the elections have taken place. More than two thirds of voters on voting lists participated. Chosen by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities, although not in all districts. A large number of people were involved in the organization of the elections, and more than 600,000 were involved in the election committees alone. Elections were observed by numerous observers, including more than 3.5 thousand from other nations and international organizations. The election cost taxpayers more than 1 billion dollars. This is the half of Ukraine’s largest budget in the capital city of Kiev. The same amount of money is spent by the electoral process on pre-election agitation. Hardly anyone can say exactly that. The press called the different figures from $1 billion to $10 billion. Ukraine has never known such expensive choices, and, God forbid I ever know. As the vote was officially declared, there were large numbers of them in general organized, avoiding distressing flaws and failings. Mass shortcomings were allowed in the compilation of voter lists, making hundreds of thousands of citizens unable to take part in the election. In some cities, voters from all over the streets and even neighborhoods were not included in the lists. There have been anecdotic situations. Some of the local leaders who signed those lists were not on the voters’ lists. The translation of lists from Russian into Ukrainian using computers resulted in numerous misrepresentations of electoral names, street names, and fair complaints. The restriction on the ability to vote for strong certificates in only one constituency within the territorial constituency has also prevented many citizens from taking part in the elections. Thousands of elderly, disabled, citizens unable to move because of the disease were unable to vote. The Commission responded promptly to reports of violations of the constitutional electoral rights of citizens who came from Lugansk, Mikolai, Hersonsk, Žitomirsk, and other areas. Some of the problems have been solved through the initiative of the Electoral Centre and our committee to change the electoral law. In particular, they were given the opportunity to vote to the members of the district election boards at the polling stations. But making changes a few days before the election is not normal. And the Supreme Council is to blame for the imperfections of the electoral law. Moreover, the refusal of the President of Ukraine to sign a law under which citizens who were not included or excluded from the lists would be given the opportunity to vote on the court's decision on the day of the vote, preventing them from exercising their constitutional rights. According to the law, district election committees were to be set up in such a way that there were no more than two and a half thousand voters per division. However, in some cities, especially in Ukraine’s capital, the number of voters was 3-4 thousand or more. In general, the legal limit number of voters was exceeded by 11 percent of the polling stations. This led to large queues being created, and people could not vote for hours. Although some votes lasted until the third and even the fifth hours of the morning. And some citizens failed to realize their constitutional rights at all. What will happen is evident before the election. This was addressed at the proper time by the authorities of the State and local self - government, including our commission, as well as by the request of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights to the National Deputies. However, part of the local councils and government administrations, despite the instructions given in the Ukrainian Presidential decree on ensuring democratic, fair and transparent elections, did not give due attention to the compilation of electoral lists, the provision of electoral committees with prepared premises, computer technology and communications. This issue was settled only in the last few days before the elections, often in the order of storms. Thus, it was not uncommon for voting to take place in unsuited rooms in basements. In order to ensure the delivery of electoral documents to the CTC, the head of the State party had to contact the President and ask the Head of State to influence the local governments in order to provide transportation. This irresponsible attitude toward the organization of the electoral campaign is difficult to understand. Inadvertently the idea arises, has not all of this been done consciously? Is it so broken down in this country that no one answers at all? The formation of election committees was a major problem. This matter was legally placed on the subjects of the electoral process — political parties, their organizations in place. Many of them, however, have come to the point without proper responsibility, and some of them have found themselves unable at all to allocate the necessary number of people to serve on election committees. Making changes to the electoral law, settling the issue of paying the work of members of the commission, has made the situation a little bit softer. Yet, some problems arose until the election was over. In our view, it is worth noting that local self-government bodies should be involved in forming commissions, and political parties should have both the right to recommend and remove candidates for election committees. The change in the law on participation in elections of Ukrainian citizens abroad has led to a significant decrease in the number of voters who voted in the elections this time. If, for example, in Transnistria, where there are 75,000 Ukrainian citizens in the presidential election, five polling stations have been created, none of them have been elected. And Chisinau or the Belts could get to the units. Of course, this could be explained by the lack of capacity to protect polling stations, other reasons, but these problems were also in the past elections, but voters were then given the opportunity to vote. There are reasons for meditation. It should also be said that efforts to maximize the legal details of the electoral process sometimes unduly tied the hands of the electoral organizers. It was not without an open, cynical, brutal bribe of voters. Just one example. In Kiev, at least 50,000 voters were awarded a civil assistant certificate from the political bloc of Leonid Chernewick signed by the bloc’s leader. The testimony is guaranteed to those to whom it has been handed, I quote, the personal admission of deputies, free legal advice, and the provision of address material assistance. Regrettably, no electoral commissions or observers or other bodies have noticed at the same time. Although the fact that the electorate was already being bribed was to be the basis for the removal of such a candidate from registration. Our commission, together with the Ukrainian President - General of the Council, held two meetings with observers, including those that arrived in Ukraine in connection with elections from other countries. During the meeting, as well as in their previous written reports, observers pointed to numerous organizational and technical shortcomings and calculations in the election campaign. Their observations generally coincide with what was said above. Some foreign observers suggested not to rush into an evaluation of Ukraine’s election to establish and publish their results. So Robert Filling, director of the Ukrainian, Belarusian, and Moldovan programs of the American Centre for Trade Solidarity, spoke at the March 28th meeting: our organization has not yet expressed these elections democratically or not. [[a Filling represented 10 observers from five Western countries]] What can't be said to the end when all the votes have not been counted? Keep going. I think it's very important: to hold back a little bit from the final comments on “democratic, free, transparent and so on” elections. So I'm surprised by this project that's been put in place, to refer to international observers and to evaluate our elections. It was found that after the vote was completed, the remark was very correct, since numerous statements made by the electoral process about the mass violations in the counting of votes are of serious concern. Scoreboards of ballots have already been conducted in a number of places, and many of the published data have found that they do not match the actual results. This includes elections to the Supreme Council and even more so to local self - government elections. In the absence of time, I do not give specific examples, many of them. You have, today you have received some materials. Today, when we considered our report at our committee meeting, documents were presented that fully confirm what was said here. I can get to the point where they say they haven't found some ballot papers. In Alchevsk 53 lists of elections voted with marks found on the trash And what's happening now in Crimea, what's happening in the Odessa region, in other regions, it's just causing anxiety. An extremely large number of counterfeiting signals make a reasonable introduction to the issue of balloting. It should be discussed when discussing the draft regulations of the Supreme Council that are in the order of today’s session. Only then will it be possible to objectively assess whether the elections were actually fair, even though there are differences of opinion among the members of the committee. We could also talk about the administrative resource. He was not like in the past elections, but what voluntarily, in paws, was recorded by people in a party whose members were the heads of the appropriate ministries and intelligence that had been floating about, how unanimously, in paws, in some cities supported the lists of those or other parties in the congregations of veterans with the participation of the leaders of the relevant services, as a transparent hint right in the paws, to hold elections, was received a warning about a possible replacement in April after the election of the governing officers in the areas, a warning that was repeated during the counting of votes. It has already been reported that a review of flights with organizational conclusions will be made at the government meeting at the end of April, and that the results of the vote will be one of the criteria for assessing district managers. We believe that electoral legislation needs improvement. In this regard, the election organizers make many suggestions, including a solid improvement of the proportional system, a threshold for going to parliament, local councils, a divorce at the time of elections to the Supreme Council and local councils. They should be generalized and carefully considered in the drafting of legislative acts. At the time, there is the creation of a public voter register, which has also been proposed by the Supreme Council for Human Rights, many public organizations before, but this has not been done. There is an electoral code at the time. Finally, about the financing of elections by other nations. The media reported, among other things, that Mr. John Herbst, a U.S. ambassador, is providing approximately $13.3 billion to support fair and free elections in the United States. The ambassador did not specify who specifically received the funds. The same was true of past elections. But how, through which channels, how this money comes in, how it's distributed, is unknown even to the Central Elections. The funds for the organization of the elections go enormous, according to CBC head Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich. But we don't know anything about the sources of their coming. As a matter of fact, in my past election, I, as a member of parliament, made this reference to government agencies. I didn't get a specific, clear answer. Does this, so-called, aid in carrying out “free” and honest elections with interference in the internal affairs of our state? [[in quotes]] Dear colleagues! In completing my parliamentary activities, I would like to take this opportunity to express to you, dear colleagues, the leadership of the Supreme Council, to the staff of the apparatus a sincere appreciation for their cooperation, for their help, and for the help of the newly elected parliamentarians, to wish them to justify their high trust, to wish that they did not have a problem with the ability to do the great work required by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question if you have one. Please point to the board. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to give the floor to my colleague Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u28	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u29	Dear George Korniyovich! Well, indeed, the elections took place, as the President said, without major violations, there are some violations in the counting of votes, there are protocols that really need to be addressed and resolved. Because, indeed, order is needed, we need to prove that they will be honest and orderly. In this regard, I have a question to ask you: Please tell me, do you insist on making a list of all the results of the elections in general, or is it selective, as it corresponds to the law, only where there are observations, and where is the appeal of individual political forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u30	I express my personal opinion. Since there is now just such a stream of violations, mass violations, I think we need to get rid of this stain and tell the truth about the elections. In the United States, this was the case. I think that's a pretty instructive example for us in this respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u31	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear George Korniyovich, I agree with your conclusions practically, and with your suggestions for the future. I mean, really, we've all been there, and we've seen how big a violation of legislation is. And it wasn't a transparent election, it was just-just horrible! And what they're making is there, the OSCE, and some others, they probably like this system very much. So today I have a question like this for you. First, what is your opinion on the availability of individual lists of voters to different levels of counsel? And secondly, don't you think that the CBC is supposed to be responsible, the executive authority for the fraud that was said in October that voter lists are ready for 80, 90 and so on, and it turns out that these lists were then worked out -- and millions of people didn't vote at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u33	Well, I didn't quite get the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u34	This to the Supreme Council and to the local authorities, there were two lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u35	Well, there are different practices on this point. In the United States, for example, senators are chosen at the same time, both to their own authorities, and to the sheriffs, and to others. And it's made with a book, and it's all pretty compact and comfortable. Why didn't we think of that? Well, I guess we haven't gone far from the papaya level. We haven't left. With regard to the second question, all those who have done wrong should be responsible for the wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u36	Yes, Oleg Belarus, faction of the Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u37	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, international organisations of the OSCE have made a high assessment of the level of democratic elections, made a statement that the elections have gone to higher standards and democratic standards. But there are separate violations, it's the prerogative of law enforcement. And we need to do that. As far as the total count is concerned, where is another billion 200 million in Ukraine to play with it? Where is the guarantee that these estimates will give at least one hundred derailments? We need to take this seriously. There is no law, and there is no civil mourning. And the political forces, their interests, we understand, but the people have spoken their word. And that's why overcalculation is absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u38	What can I say about that? Indeed, international organizations and some government officials have rushed to give the highest marks to the elections, for this is part of their strategy. But they said that when there were no votes. Unfortunately, we are in such a state of development in our society that it is not what they vote for, but it is what they estimate. At this very stage, there were no international observers. And it would be good if they were. If they didn't look at the disadvantages, the turmoil and the crimes, I would say that they were being done in favour of certain political forces that now don't want to clear our conscience and our country of all the negatives that turned out in these elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u39	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u40	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union “Our Ukraine”. Georgi Korniyovich, I'm asking you a question as a lawyer: tell me, please, who is the left-hand side of the blame for miscalculation of votes? Or those representatives of political parties who were delegated to the commission who failed to perform their duties. As a result, today, 34,000 districts are being blamed for the fact that our parties haven't yet become parties, they're being placed on one couch, they're just called parties. Is it not appropriate to recalculate areas where violations and courts should be required to carry out the census for the final outcome of the elections? Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u41	I fully agree with you, my colleague, that here are the wines and political parties that have allocated such representatives that they have failed to ensure the proper conduct of the elections and the counting of votes. That's perfectly normal. But this has often been done beyond the attention and influence of political parties. And here, as a lawyer, I want to tell you who did this, the one responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u43	Dear George Korniyovich! How can you comment that when you count votes, there seems to have been no political force that wouldn't have shaken the ballots on TV and showed that in this area mass falsifications were calculated in hundreds of such regions, thousands of cases of infidelity, miscalculation and so on. Why has position changed now? Did you have a conjuncture? First question. The second question. Do you think that this was not a mass violation when a hit was selectively in Crimea and half the ballot papers were analyzed by 33.6% of the violations? Opposition area – 12, Ivano-Frankivska – 11, Kyivska – 17, Lvivska – 21 and so on? And finally, don't you think that if, for today, everywhere, absolutely everywhere, where the revaluations are made, there's a serious discrepancy between what's in the ballot boxes today and the protocols that the CBC is showing us? Is this not mass, and is this not a symptom of what really needs to be counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u44	Dear Oleg Alexandrovich! You just confirmed what I said in my speech. The infringements are mass in nature, and it is very difficult to find out where they were. Because, really, the deeper they get into this problem, the more they get, the more I would say, criminal acts designed and clearly in favour of certain political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u45	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u46	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The election took place. That's a fact. Fluctuations, as in any process, certainly do, and they will. The question of this order, the first question. What order in percent is the deviation from the justice that should be, the calculation of the votes. And the next. In Kirovgrad, six district election committees have already been listed, and it has all come together. And now we start counting again. During this period, such actions have already been carried out. For example, the head of the Kirov territorial election commission was already opening, closing the room. There are already unpacked sacks with ballots. There is already a blockade on the work of the commission by former members of the 100th constituency, including. So that's the question. Can we make a decision today, and will it be legal or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u47	The decision will be taken by the Supreme Council, and that is its business. Indeed, there are some problems, including the city of Kirovograd. They were listed there, five were to be counted in full, and six were to be decided. But look, if the 103 district district commission found the 224 ballot invalid, and the 441 district commission, and so on, it's hard to talk about justice here. The one who wants to know is the one who gets it. Anyone who does not want the truth to be established will do all he can to ensure that it does not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u48	Anatoly Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u49	Dear George Korniyovich. Frost, 83 constituency, Zaporez. Indeed, there have been many complaints from our voters that there have been many irregularities on the part of the election boards, and the failure of local self - government bodies in the planning of the organization and the holding of elections, although there have been many references to our address, which we did not foresee by law. I think that what was not properly organized in the polling stations is not the Supreme Council's fault and not the wine, but I agree with the conclusions that you've made, and I think that, really, it's appropriate, we need to run a recalculation of the results of the elections that have been held in the constituencies and in the polling stations. My colleagues say it right, and you said that in the United States, there was a vote count, and the state did not suffer, nor did it suffer, the authority of that State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u50	I have nothing to comment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u51	Yes, thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down, please. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. While Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky is on his way, I will provide help. There were questions asked about Kirovograd, and people should not be misled. In Kirovograd, it was decided to recalculate six polling stations. We counted two, 103 and 74. Variation of counterfeit ballot papers 441 plus 171. After that, the calculation, the recalculation, and the ban were lifted. Please read. Igor Raphailovich, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, allow me to express the general conclusions of the High Council Commission on Elections. The end of the reign of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma was a heavy one in the state. One of the most dramatic and dramatic events was the election of the President and the Orange Ukrainian Revolution. These events divided Ukraine into two camps and blocks. The Presidential promises of the two main candidates for the presidency, approved by our Supreme Council, have created terrible financial stalls in the economy of the state, and this has become a dense cloud for the entire run of elections to the Supreme Council and local councils, so to the incredible difficulties in the economic policy of the governments of Timoshenko and Yehanurov. In this situation in the winning election, there could only be a backing side, and that's what happened. The lack of recognition of authority in the “Our Ukraine” bloc has given birth to several dozen small blocks, most often with a certain deputy at the head. As a result of the election, many experienced party and block leaders remained outside the Supreme Council. This creates an opportunity to bring the future government together with good specialists without exhaling the frame of elected deputies. The election was not about the contention of programs, but rather about the struggles of individuals, the games of democracy were deformed and strangely called the blocks: Lazarenka, Lithuania, Yuri Karmazin, Kostenka-Plushka, Natalia Vitrenko, Boris Oilynika, Michael Orota, Eugene Marchuk and others. In the meantime, the party’s programmes set out two distinct directions: the unification of the population of Ukraine on the basis of the national values of the Ukrainian people and the idea of cosmopolitanism in the background of well - defined economic measures. Elections to the Supreme Council took place, a specific prerequisite for the primacy of elections is the numbering of election committees. In particular, for party and block representatives in district election committees, such information may be provided. To implement article 27 of the Supreme Council Election Act, the number of representatives in the District Electoral Commissions is first of all “Our Ukraine” and 84 percent. Second, the “Regions”, the Soccer and the People's Party of Lithuania share -5.81 percent. Third place is Yulia Timoshenko - 5.78. The fourth place is the Ukrainian People's Party, 5.71. Fifth place is the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] In total, “Our Ukraine” had the largest representation at the expense of the representatives of the other parties. At the same time, “Our Ukraine” is in the unexpected third place after the election – it is one of the symptoms that elections took place honestly, openly and democratically. The other thing is the count of votes. The overall electoral evaluation, as Georgi Korniyovich said, can be considered positive if the results of the elections are not taken into account. The comments were mainly about technical problems. Thus, technical problems regarding the so - called machine translation with bad computer programs cannot be artificially used to assess the outcome of the elections, rather as an anecdote and as a sign of the laziness of local authorities. More seriously, there were people working in the polling stations who were not trained in the electoral process. In the future, separate elections should be held for the Supreme Council and for local councils. The number of voters in polling stations needs to be reduced. Key changes in the electoral law were not brought to the voter’s knowledge. As has been said, areas along the state’s perimeter, the border, and virtually devoid of Ukrainian radio and television. The electoral funds of the parties were neither marked nor controlled. The voter register must be created as well as a register of election facilities. The cost of the nations would be to organize the elections, not to give gifts. A unified electoral process will solve issues with lists. Voting abroad was not properly secured. Consider the large number of Ukrainians who have left the country. There is a need for the creation of Ukrainian consular posts everywhere, including Transnistria. Ukraine has a detailed discussion of the electoral law. Very in time, this Supreme Council adopted the Law on Parliamentary Minority, on Parliamentary Opposition, on April 26th. Further legislative policy must be pursued so that the parliamentary minority has the chance to take power as a result of future parliamentary elections, or through elections. Therefore, opposition cannot be weak. But the most important work of the majority and the opposition must be constructive. That's the perspective that comes out of the election. To my profound conviction, political consciousness, and responsibility, the overwhelming masses of the population became statesmen. The defeat of each of the major parties that is now in the Supreme Council has its objective reasons, and they are primarily related to the assessment of the conduct of the party’s representatives in the Supreme Council and to the agonizing of the population for the fate of the state. In conclusion, the Temporary Special Electoral Commission warmly thanks those heroic officers of the district election committees, the district election committee’s staff, and especially the Central Electoral Commission and its head, Jaroslav Davidovich, for their self - sacrificing work. Thank you! We want reason and success to the deputies of the new calling. On the list of voting results. Physically, it is almost impossible, legally unsecured and counting will not produce reliable results, in turn it will be challenged again. The general census can only take place by decision of the court. It can only touch certain areas, ultimately those who violate the Electoral Law must bear criminal responsibility. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u53	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u54	That's how we're going to democratize our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u55	Yes. Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to performances from the MP factions. Please sign in, because only two representatives have been enrolled. John Alexanderovich, are you from the faction? Well, while we're gone, let's do it this way now. Hell-bent Alexander, get ready for Kafarsky. And I'd like you to sign up, Your Honor, if you'd like to speak. Oh, no? Then we'll move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u56	Respectable colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” fully supports and fully supports the concern that today exists in society regarding the democratic holding of elections, their credibility in the calculation of votes. At the same time, the faction believes that the question of the legality of the outcome of the elections cannot be used as an instrument of political pressure and blackmail. Any extreme, any attempt to contain objective consideration by the CEC, the law enforcement agencies, and an attempt at an unproven, comprehensive charge pending the declaration of official results, in our view, is not only harmful, but also criminal. Since the first day of the electoral process, a party of regions has said that there have been errors and direct violations of the law in the elections. The most significant of them, obviously, we have seen all of these, especially the lists, the quality composition of the electoral commissions. If it were not for the civic responsibility of the electorate, the voting process could be a brotherly grave not only for all the results of the 2006 elections but also for all democratic victories in the country. The spirit of the collapse of the elections had prevailed in the country until the last day of the electoral campaign. At the same time, we understand that today, exitpols, the parallel counting system allows parties to have virtually CEC, and sometimes earlier, operational analysis close to the final outcome of the elections. The algorithm, which follows the assessment of 30-40 per cent of ballots and plots, is rarely reversed. Many parties have therefore received a clear forecast long before the end of the elections and have launched an information fight against CEC and electoral leaders, without paying attention to international observers' assessments or the lack of official results. As of today, their individual representatives have branded and handed down sentences, there has been extensive preparation of society for the possibility of reviewing the results of the elections, abolishing but also a new cycle of civil instability in the country as a whole. The Party of the Regions shares and supports the concern of all and the requirements for investigating each complaint, each statement of violation. We are prepared to participate in the recalculation of each area where the court will make a legal decision on the recalculation, regardless of how many such sites will be decided by the court, one per cent or ninety-nine. But we will not support or allow illegal interference with the work of the CEC and the courts by anyone. We all have reason to criticize each other's laws. But making major changes to the voting bill today is like changing the wheels of a train during its movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u57	Yes, Vladimir Kafarsky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, prepare Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the problems we discussed today, we all waited and realized that they would. The point is that the inadequate legal reform of the real state of development of the political institutions has been reflected in these elections. They have shown how well our political parties are formed and how structured they are. As a result, we received an extremely large number of blocks that were essentially unable to reach the sites, especially in the elections to the local authorities. The process of political restructuring at the local level has been exposed to the fundamental problem of the weakness of real political structures. If you look at the party of local council members, they make up 22 percent of the total after the 2002 elections, compared with 46 in the Supreme Council. In addition, political parties are less represented locally. This suggests that all who wanted to go on party lists were selected. As a result, lists were drawn up on the one hand, in which some corporate local groups set up as the ossule of their eggs in each party of their representatives, and on the other hand sent to the electoral commission people who did not have a high level of consciousness or a legal culture or a responsibility to society. All of this has produced results. But today, when it comes to elections, it must be said that it is not possible to list, indeed, all elections in Ukraine. This must be decided by the court of the Ukrainian institution. But when we see what is happening in Kirovograd and elsewhere, we may need to take appropriate steps to get out of this situation. So I think we should support the Supreme Council decision prepared by Klukkowski, Odainik, in which these positions are clearly expressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u59	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u60	Dear fellow national MPs! Indeed, the question of the authenticity and reality of the election results is a fundamental issue for our entire state. But we don't have to go into hysteria. As the first secretary of Montenegro’s Common Socialist Party, I controlled the results of the elections in Montenegro. We had a board member and two observers at each polling station. The election took place without any pressure, influence, or blackmail. The count of votes went on without nervous stress, not compared with the choices before that. We've compiled protocols from all the polling stations. We compared the results that we got in the area of our protocols and the results that we have on the Central Election Commission on the site, they were actually a match. Now I've got information from 95 Kirovograd district, where there's no significant difference at six locations, and there's no significant difference. A few votes one way or the other. This could be an explanation for the fact that people worked more than 36 hours without sleep, and they could actually have made a mechanical mistake. To accuse the whole of Ukraine, those half a million citizens who were on the territorial commissions of different parties, of forging the results of the elections, I would not and would not be able to. And that's why I'm convinced that you can and should count the votes, but in those areas where they're fixed under the current law of violation. In fact, there have also been some areas where there have been violations, and there have been attempts to deliver a newsletter. But if only humans were told that this could not be done, people voted. If in some regions of Ukraine there has been a violation and they have been identified, or if there is a significant difference in the protocols that have been submitted by the commissions and observers, there is a need to count the votes. But we didn't foresee a paragraph in the law such as the precise protocol, because when we brought the district commissions, without experience, the protocol, we came to the district and we told them -- rewrite the protocol, because you misrepresented it, and so on, then there could be some differences, but again we can't charge the whole Ukraine with falsification. There is no provision in the law for the counting of votes. The decision to help, the law must be passed, the changes to the law. The next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u61	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky has a word. Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media and those who are diplomatic representatives, I would now like to dissave a few myths and scarecrows about the counting of votes. But before that, I want to draw your attention to how quickly the positions of some political forces have changed, which in the elections of 27, 28, 29 were talking about numerous violations and even saying -- forgeries in virtually all areas of Ukraine, by the way, regardless of regional ownership. Obviously, there are other interests now. As for some scarecrows and myths. For the conclusion of international observers. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the international observers have left, and I know that there are a lot of my personal friends there in the morning of March 27th, because these people don't understand that you can conduct more or less normal elections, and then organize the technology for falsifying just the counting of votes that was made. We will present to all diplomatic representations. International organizations without analytics, just dry documents for forging votes, and then I suggest you make your own conclusions on the basis that you will see with your own eyes. With wet seals, with direct falsifications and so on. What about scarecrows? We've been told all the time by some people who are here, who can't be counted, this six months, that's a year and so on. Don't lie! Don't tell me, your honor, you're lying. It's done for two weeks. And when President Kwasniewsky of Poland wanted his authority to be legitimate, he himself is the guarantor of the Constitution, he initiated a recount to ensure that there was no doubt about the legitimacy of this power. There is a need for political will and no need to deceive anyone, for it was not just in Poland, it was in other countries and it was normal practice. As far as it's not possible to do it in the legislative order, it's also not true. It is not said that the number of votes is prohibited. There are many lawyers and lawyers here, and you know very well that if it is not prohibited by law, it means that it is permitted. No one prevents the counting of votes. The next moment. Do you think, Your Honor, why did electoral ballots disappear after serious discussions with the facts began? Why are they already open in many locations, and there is toilet paper? Because people know that responsibility will have to be borne when the vote is recalculated and the responsibility is not only criminal but also political responsibility. And why today, in most polling stations, where. In all the polling stations that have been listed, there have already been serious clashes that range from 10 to hundreds of votes. Imagine, across every polling station. Maybe that's why the courts are shutting down and banning the counting? We believe that the authorities must be honest, the calculation must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u63	Yes, Volodymyr Stretovich, please. Our Ukraine faction. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! I think each and every one of you is convinced that our democracy is young, that our democracy is growing, and little children have inevitable childhood diseases. After all, 15 years of independence we can't reach those standards that have been achieved by English democracy over a millennium or by American democracy for 200 years. But the theory is that if you don't know how to act, you will act according to the law. For the first time in our practice, we have included in a law called “On Elections of People’s Deputies”, a whole section of the indictment of decisions, actions or omissions of electoral committees of the electoral process. It spells out who has the right to charge, starting with an observer, a member of a business commission, a candidate for a deputy, a representative of the CTC, and so forth. Today, when we raise the hysteria around the count, I want to say, what, we have 34,000 plots and their members are dishonest people? Yes, the violations were, yes, the following signals came: in Chernigiv region, where voices were copied from one political power to another, Zaporzig, Kirovgrad. But these are cases that need to be answered properly, adequately. So in this situation today in the state, in order for the parties to understand that it takes not half a year to prepare for elections, but all four years to have their representatives working, not for money, for 300 or 500 dollars, but for the idea that today we need to do it in every polling station, by establishing such a fact, in accordance with the procedural law to sue in court, by raising the court's authority, the court will decide that this should be done, counted fairly quickly, and put a stop to this trial. You listen to direct broadcasts from our electorate citizens who say, “You have done nothing, now you have grasped, and the result is known.” The people are wise, the people are not mistaken. If one of the political forces gains some interest as a result of this, but the entire expression of the will of Ukrainian citizens will not change. Ukraine wants change, and these changes will certainly be. We held open, democratic pre-election races. We held an open, democratic vote. But there was a danger in counting the votes. For the next four years, we will prepare for this. And I'm convinced that every political force will not leave the polling station until it has a document on its hands that will show the result in this polling station. If you have these facts in your hands today, the state guarantees you a court defense, so I'm proposing to every polling station, by setting up errors in counting the votes to count them, by keeping the budget, and by setting up democracy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u65	Yes, Victor Terrence, faction of the Timoshenko Yuli Block. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u66	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, well, indeed, the world society has declared elections open and democratic and, indeed, this is the triumph of the orange revolution. And in these elections, people not only voted for the programs, but they voted for the leaders who were able to run these programs. And people made that choice, and when Georgi Korniyovich here complained about democracy and complained that the Communists said it could have been read, that votes had been stolen, that I would remind the previous parliament that there were about 140 Communist deputies in the previous parliament, if I don't remember, now 60, the next one would be 21. And here you can count, don't count, you'll get the same. Because the Communist voices stole the Communists themselves, stole their anti-Ukraine ideologies, stole their activities to the detriment of Ukraine. It requires a recalculation of Vitrenco's votes, and Vitrenco, who lost two elections before, two majors, two majors twice, lost twice in a proportional system. So that the country won't work, will it just count Vitrenco's votes and other similar political bankruptcys? It is not possible to recalculate the votes. Vote: The number of votes I refer to Davidovich was more than 500,000, more than 500,000. Is it to get people out of work again? Do you want to start the countdown again, which will take months? And if you'll excuse me, where are these protocols? And where are these protocols, have you burned them already, or have you, excuse me, eaten them? Where did they share those protocols? And the place will be the same composition of the Supreme Council? And for months will it be the same leadership of the Supreme Council? Is that a way to continue the agony? And that's what we have to vote again for the budget changes and we're going to put billions into recalculations. Of course, we're on the count of every district where there's gonna be a court decision. Period. But counting all over the country is absurd. There are whole areas, districts where there are no complaints, there are no complaints. Seated 12 to 15 members of the commission, 50 observers and so on. And, excuse me, who's yelling for the count? Maybe the ones who took the money but didn't make it? Now, according to the Constitution, the official results of the elections must be announced. The CEC has to announce the election, and now it's talking about nonsensus in general. That's the pressure on the C.V.K. Only after the official results have been announced can anything be said. And what I'm trying to say is that when they refer to the presidential census, that's what it was. But European practice does not know any instances where there would be a vote count in the elections to parliaments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u67	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak. Is there a Vladimir Kirilovich? The “Reforms and Orders” faction. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! I have no personal motive to question the outcome of the election. I don't pretend to be in the MP's chair anymore. But as an active deputy and as a citizen of Ukraine, I am obliged to say the following: these elections are not the triumph of the “morning revolution”, Deputy Terene; these elections are the defeat of the “morning revolution”; these elections are not the triumph of democracy; these elections are the defeat of democracy; these elections are not the triumph of justice; these elections are the defeat of justice. It seems that counterfeiting in the 2006 parliamentary and local elections was more extensive than forging in the 2004 presidential elections. There are two major differences between the counterfeiting of 2006 and the counterfeiting of 2004. First. Forgery was done not by authority but by political parties. The other one. Forgery was not made before the election, not during the election, not even during the vote. Forgery took place after counting the votes. That's why it's the most subtle, subtle form of counterfeiting. If there were “carousels” in the previous elections, buttholes, it was noticeable. This falsification was carried out by the heads of the district and district commissions. By the time the protocols were signed, counterfeiting was done on the way to district commissions and district commissions. And there's no reason to enjoy ourselves with wet seals, it's wet seals. Because they were being treated in a forged ballot. This raises at least two questions. First. Whether the results of the elections can be announced if the cases are brought before the courts and if there is a decision by the courts on the need to count the votes in separate locations. And the second. What is meant by “specified ballot papers ”? This is actually Ukrainian know-how.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, please. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u70	A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. On March 26, 2006, a sign was held of the representative power of all levels in Ukraine’s modern history. The elections ended the second phase of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution by defeating the Ukrainian people. In the struggle for power in Ukraine, representatives of the great oligarchic cosmopolitan clans won. In the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, the vast majority received representatives of three oligarchic clans competing for control of Ukraine’s wealth. For the first time since the 1990s, there will be no representation in the Supreme Council of Ukrainian patriotic national and democratic forces, expressions of national and cultural, economic and social interests of the Ukrainian people. Today’s winners, representatives of the great oligarchic cosmopolitan capital that has grown up to plunder the national wealth of the Ukrainian people, foreign problems of national culture, small and medium-sized national business, social problems of Ukrainian humanity. The composition of the Fifth Assembly Parliament is the most non - Ukrainian in the history of an independent Ukraine. A paradoxical situation has arisen, and the people have, by their will, voted against their interests. This was due to the disillusionment of the infirmity and impotence of power, which prompted a large number of voters to take part in the populist aspirations of the Party of Regions and the Yuliy Timoshenko Block, a complete lack of control over the use of astronomical financial resources for the electoral campaign, which allowed the oligarchic clans to achieve huge financial and organizational domination over neoligarchic political parties in the electoral process, unreserved lies and inadequacy of the electorate, an almost complete lack of awareness of the electorate's personal composition of the electoral lists of the oligarchic clan teams hidden by the abstract names of the parties, that much of the patriotic electorate was the victim of fraud, seeking to be freed from their own oligors and sympathetically of the group of Tiliko Yuli. The results of the elections show that the situation of the Ukrainian people has not improved but has worsened considerably. And the main struggle for Ukrainian rights is yet ahead. We thank all those Ukrainian voters who voted in favour of the Ukrainian People's bloc for their high awareness and civic responsibility. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u71	Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u72	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! From the very beginning, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have found courage, consistent and principled, and voted in favour of the party that is the voice of the left-wing ideas, a party that today offers a completely different model for the development of our society, for us, as communists. Thank you. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we will consistently live up to the promises we made during the electoral campaign. Second. I would like to invite those who make various statements today to determine what coalition will be in the future parliament? It should inevitably be left because all of you, by lying to the voters, went to the polls with just the left ideas. Next. I would also like to propose the following in discussing the situation with the elections today. Respectable voters! Today, beneath the walls of the Supreme Council are those who, a year ago, with these same slogans, “Let us not steal our voices” were under the same walls of the Supreme Council. So the question is, what has changed in society? Turns out it's nothing. Everything is developing in the same scenario as we communists and assumed, provided that large criminal capital is in power, anti-Ukrainian and anti-Ukrainian power. As a result, those who are currently grappling with crocodiles must be responsible for all that was done a year ago. Therefore, we would consider it possible to emphasize, first of all, and to point out that the breach was systemic, because it was a manifestation of the system that was approved today in power. This systemic nature concerned, above all, how the commissions had been formed and the technical conditions for voting. Because many simply did not have the opportunity to exercise their right and to bribe voters, blackmail and intimidation. I believe that we must speak seriously today about how capital has corrupted the system as a whole and how it has subjected itself today. One of the speakers before me would like to remind me that, right now, in Kirovograd, the 95th District is being recalculated as well as the 100th District. So in every bag that opens today, from 50 to 100 votes, that is, ballot papers, the Communists were taken in favour of Block Timoshenko. It's in every bag, I'm just saying, only what's being recalculated. Therefore, honourable voters, I would like to emphasize that we, the Communists, will vote in favour of the recalculation initiative today. How? It is necessary to bring all the ballots here to Kiev, and the CEVC must carry out this recalculation and no funds are required to do so. Second. The worst scenario, unfortunately, is developing in Ukraine. Not the Supreme Council, but the elected oligarchs' club and today the centre of corruption has moved from the executive branch to the legislative body. Conclusions. I would like to propose to the President: First. Commence recalculation. Because today the great danger of political reform lies in one thing: they come in clean hands and then it turns out that everything is dirty. Therefore
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, all who signed up for the factions, spoke. We are now in the process of presenting draft rulings on this issue. I'll give my word in order to register. He has the first right to speak. The thing is, you don't have to yell. The questions have been considered, and after the question is taken up, we make decisions and do not need to include anything in the agenda. Learn the Rules of Procedure. We've considered the question, and the outcome of the debate is we're making a decision, what are you talking about? Dear colleagues, I think you need to adopt an old and new Rules and everything will be fine. Please, Mikola Komar, Project No. 9270, and then it'll be No. 9270-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the draft decree, he has some connection, of course, to the information of the commission. But it's not a commission decision, it's completely different. And I believe that, according to the Rules, we should complete the consideration of the matter and then proceed to the consideration of regulations. But if I have a word, I will report. According to a report in the media, the individual political forces that have received an unacceptable result in the elections call for a re-calculation of voters within the general public constituency of all, without exception, polling stations in contravention of Ukraine's established law of order. Such actions endanger civil peace and peace in Ukraine. Similar intentions run counter to article 77 of the Constitution, according to which the conduct of the elections of Ukrainian national deputies is established and determined solely by law, as well as by the latter part of article 61 of the Constitution, the individual nature of legal responsibility. Desiring to develop a democratic and legal state in order to ensure that the electoral rights of citizens are strictly guaranteed at the time of their election on 26 March, I believe it is necessary to recognize the people's deputies, the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea, local councils that have taken place and are generally in line with the genuine will of the electorate, and to oblige the Central Election Commission to ensure strict compliance with article 96 of the Ukrainian Electoral Law on the order and timing of the election results of the national MPs. In view of the foregoing, I consider it appropriate to establish that the decision to recalculate a vote can only be made by an authority authorized and solely by a separate electoral office. And the corresponding decision to recalculate votes can only be made separately in each polling station. The draft decision determines that the District Election Commissions shall, in accordance with the requirements of Article 92 of the Electoral Act, decide to re-calculate the votes of the electorate in separate polling stations on appropriate grounds. Similarly, the territorial constituencies should ensure that the voters in each particular constituency are recalculated, on the basis of the basis laid down in the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads. Thank you for your attention. Questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u75	No, it's not. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Decision 9270-1, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Don't kill, don't steal, these are the basic commandments that every Christian knows. From three to six — one, each one standing in a polling station to give his vote. To give up your voice and then by hundreds of thousands of voices, you who are against the count today have stolen these voices!Oh, my God! And today you want to say to everyone: “You don’t have to count! ” With hundreds of thousands of votes that go out in millions for each faction and you say today: “To calculate for a long time. But where are those protocols?" Where are they? And I remind those who don't know, because this is the Elections Act. Here, part five of article 118 says: “The ballot papers, the checkers are kept in the local archives for four years. ” That's where they are, Mr. Davidovich! They're supposed to be there. Don't you know where they are?Oh, my God! Now you say you have to count a lot of time. Let's figure out that if one ticket takes one minute, and the members of the territorial commissions work eight hours a day, that's 480 minutes a day. So it's going to take, divide 25 million by 480 minutes, just 12 to 19 days, but it's going to be true. It will be determined that yesterday, captured in the Energodar of Zaporozhye district, the ballot papers and other electoral documentation for the election of local council deputies, city heads who were to be destroyed in connection with the fact that organized crime groups falsified the results. The electoral documentation packages were self-printed and replaced the contents of the packets instead of the original protocols, embossed the specially manufactured DVDs signed on video. Among the evidence is found in one of the packages and the note: “Slightly assigns signatures, there are two protocols to the local board and two protocols to the shell.” You are preparing normal authority, Mr. Davidovich, you are preparing normal authority! By election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only 91 districts in 103 districts in Lugansk, where the largest in the Lugansk region is counterfeiting, as well as in Zaporzik, which in Crimea, as in Kirovograd, are stealing 10 votes in one piece in Vitrenko, for the benefit of “Regions” 96, in Carmazin 9 votes, in Communists 45, in PRI-2, in “Prevent Ukraine”-2, in “Vice”-6, in another district 114 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u77	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, now draft Decree 9270-2, Bogdan Hubsky, please prepare Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The election took place. Their democracy is recognized. At the same time, during the election campaign, numerous violations of electoral legislation were recorded by authorized political parties, including the Yulia Timoshenko Block. As a result of these complaints to the election committees of all levels and to the CLTC, appeals to the courts were made. In recent times, we know that such unfounded and irresponsible calls have also emerged for a recalculation of all the votes. I would like to remind everyone here that, in accordance with article 77 of the Constitution, the order of the election of Ukrainian national deputies is governed solely by the law of Ukraine. However, in the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies” there are no rules on the possibility of counting all votes by election of national deputies. And in the case of certain or other violations of complaints that have been confirmed by acts or court decisions, it is possible to count the votes in separate locations. In this regard, we propose. First. Recommend that the Central Electoral Commission consider complaints concerning violations of Ukrainian legislation during the vote. The other one. Recommend to the subjects of the electoral process if signs of crime or administrative offences are detected in the March 26 elections to inform the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities immediately. Third. To draw the attention of officials of the public authorities to the inadmissibility of interfering with the exercise of their powers by electoral commissions and the statutory criminal responsibility. It should be noted here that article 157 of the Criminal Code for interfering with the official’s service position in the exercise of their powers by electoral commissions provides for a penalty of 2 to 5 years of imprisonment. To the initiators of these calculations and influences, and the political pressure on the commission, as well as any orders and instructions, I would like to remember this rule. Julia Timoshenko's block opposes the violation of the People's Deputies Election Act, because we are confident that this is meant to break the election. That's why we're against the proposal to count all the votes. We're against it, and the Yulia Timoshenko Block against it is once again saying no to making adventurous political decisions that aim to satisfy the ambitions of some political forces and in fact to break the elections, to break the will of the citizens of Ukraine. It is fair to say that all the discussions about the voter count are aimed at the very end of the election. And, initiator friends, admit it. So I urge everyone to act within the framework of the law and to support our draft ruling and not support the counting of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u79	Mikola Odynik, please, about the draft regulation 9270-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u80	Deputies! Dear voters! Good day to you, good health! Today we are discussing a very serious question -- the question of the election of the national MPs, which took place on March 26th. For the first time, Ukraine received the findings of international observers that the election of Ukrainian national deputies was free, fair and in line with democratic world standards. But unfortunately, those forces that didn't make it to the Supreme Council, the tail number, I repeat, the rear number cannot agree with the election results, and they can be understood. It may be agreed that minor violations have occurred. Thus, in our ruling, we demand strict adherence to the laws of all electoral commissions, judicial bodies, particularly in the case of complaints and appeals made by electoral bodies on the issue of the application of electoral legislation. We demand that the law enforcement agencies and the prosecutor’s offices immediately consider the facts of the violation of electoral law and the involvement of the guilty in legal responsibility. In view of the impossibility of ensuring proper control over the enforcement of electoral legislation during the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads, the application of the principles of justice and openness, it is considered inappropriate to continue to hold elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the submission of draft regulations has been completed. Before you go to the vote, please for reasons, if that's what you want. Five minutes of motive. Sign up for the reasons for the vote. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performances. Igor Alexeyev, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u83	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u84	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I reaffirm once again that the Communist faction will vote in favour of the decision under which the Central Electoral Commission is required to recalculate the election of the people's deputies directly in the city of Kiev, requiring all protocols and, of course, ballots from the areas. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, if the President is the guarantor of the Constitution, he should be the first to initiate, through his political power today, a direct recalculation of those votes for the simple reason that he is putting the task of guaranteeing the Constitution of the unification of Ukraine and its unification as a result of the fact that there has been a specific choice, as some claim. Next. In view of the fact that, in the context of political reform, the power goes directly to the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, these hands must be truly clean, as some have stated, in terms of their position in the executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u85	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u87	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Helen Fedorovna. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of the presiding officer to the fact that he once again grossly violated the rules of the Supreme Council and raised the issue without including them in the agenda. That's the first one. And the next. The organization and conduct of elections in Ukraine is regulated by article 92, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20, and this is only in accordance with the law. According to the law, the authorities of the State, which, in accordance with Part 1 of the Central Electoral Commission Act, is the Central Election Commission, are governed by their activities, in accordance with Part 2 of Article 19 of the Constitution, the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So we are convinced that nothing is happening. Any violation of the law in the counting of votes leads to a breakdown of the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You've seen that Parliament will be illegal if there is no count. You have seen that the organs that will be formed by him will not be recognized by the people. You have seen that there is an attempt at a coup d'état in Ukraine through what is called the elections, through what is called a vote count, when in favour of two oligarchic clans it is all counted. In view of the scale of counterfeiting, I say that there is a threat to the security of Ukraine, which is the destruction of a democratic social regime, the basis of which is, in fact, the right of citizens to choose freely and to be elected. That is why I ask you to vote on the second decision that I make: to ensure compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, with Ukraine's laws throughout its territory and with an honest count of votes that could be carried out under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u91	Basil Nadrag, People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you and addressing those who are listening and watching our session. One question. Everyone knows that the next session of the Supreme Council will not start until 15 May. The only question I have is, what's our problem if we say it was all fair before May 15th? Well, from the evil one, I think. Everything else is from the wicked because the law doesn't change anything. One year ago, even the results of the vote were lifted, and references to all sorts of cassuistic points began to suggest that it was impossible to simply recalculate, not that there was a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u93	Philindash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u95	Joseph Winsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u96	In fact, in a number of regions there are very serious violations in the calculation of votes. There are also empty seal protocols, there are two — three protocols per polling station, there is a discrepancy between the ballots where the census was made and the protocols; there are many other violations. But this does not mean that the Supreme Council should also break the law. So our faction, absolutely in favour of creating all the possibilities for establishing the truth in all the polling stations where such violations took place, will not support the option when we involve Ukraine in political adventure. And what we're proposing in individual projects is a political adventure that leads to state disorder and the actual delay in summation of the election to the Supreme Council, the local authorities. That's why we support a solution that will provide a clear calculation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u97	Yes, Your Honor, I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the session room. Now we're going to make the right decision. Allow me to have a few words before the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to very much complete the cadence without charge, including by the national deputies, a violation of the rules. I would like to remind the honourable deputies that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we were talking about how the information of the temporary special commission would be considered. In summary, all the draft decisions that will be proposed will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And when we look at the issue that is in the daytime order, there's no need to include in the day-to-day agenda the solutions. It's just absurd. Actually, it's an election. Dear colleagues, the election took place. I believe that it is necessary for the results to be officially published as soon as possible because they cannot be made to love themselves. The vote was free and democratic. The international community actually recognized this. However, there could not have been, especially after the elections that took place in Belarus, for example. There was a democracy. The vote count has been falsified and, I think, everyone admits it, based on the application of new technology. In 2004, during the presidential campaign, doubts became the subject of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that no one has said that they have broken the Law and no one has called for action under the Law. The Law did not provide for the adoption of an appropriate decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But then they removed any doubts and calmed the Ukrainian society. Those who are actively opposed to the counting of votes and who actively peddle the subject of the Law are likely to have reason for fear. And they fear the calculation of the votes, because the truth will be established. Fear of what? As for the decisions of the courts, I would like to say, Your Honor, in 2004 there was first the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then there was a decision of the court. Because there was a political position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then there was a political and legal decision of the court. And let's face it, too. Now, actually, the courts are blocking the vote count. Example? Please: the territorial election commission, Kharkiv, decides to count the votes, the court forbids it. On what basis? [[B in m in s a l in]] World practice really doesn't know how to count votes. But world practice does not know Ukrainian practice. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I'd like to say, honourable colleagues, that language was meant to be before one person held in power and the other, how to take power. No one spoke about what Ukraine expected tomorrow. Too bad. Dear colleagues, in order to register, I will put draft regulations to the vote. The first is the vote. draft decree, authored by National Deputy Komar Mikola, 9270, on ensuring the legality of the results that took place on 26 March 2006 and on the recalculation of voter votes. I'll bet you a vote to approve the project as a ruling. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:50:34]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, there's no reason, one faction voted. Well, please, by the factions. Look at the factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 55, Communists, Block Timoshenko – Zero, National Party – 2, “Our Ukraine”, SPI, National Block, SDPU(o) – Zero, Ukrainian People's Party, National Movement of Ukraine – Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, “Rebirth” – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 1. The draft decree, registration number 9270-1, author Yuri Karmazin and other national deputies, is now being put to the vote on the situation that arose during the vote of voters in the election of Ukrainian national deputies and deputies of local councils and rural, village, city heads on March 26, 2006. I'm betting on a vote to approve the draft ruling as a ruling. Please vote. [[11:51:49]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 0, National Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 3, SPI – 0, National Block – 20, SDPU (o) – 16, Ukrainian People's Party – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Industries and Entrepreneurs” – 3, “Rebirth” – 13, “Reforms and Orders” – 13, non-fractional – 28. I'm betting on a draft order, registration number 9270-2. Author Bogdan Hubsky and other national deputies. On measures taken to ensure that the subjects of the electoral process of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine’s electoral legislation are continuously implemented. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:52:48]] For-48 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communists – 0, Block Timoshenko – 6, National Party – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 4, SPI – 23, National Block – 0, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, “Rebirth”, “Reforms and Orders” and non-fractional – 0. Submitted to the vote. I want to explain to the hot national MP that we need to finish the question and vote on all the draft regulations that have been discussed. A draft decree, registration number 9270-1, on the information of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on electoral law monitoring to approve the project as a whole, is being put to the vote. [[authors: Klutkowski, Odanik]] What, what? Ah, excuse me, Your Honor, draft decree, registration number 9270-3 on information from the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of electoral monitoring, the authors of the Klukkowski Project and the Odainnik Project to approve the ruling as a whole. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:54:32]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions”, Communists – 0, “Timishenko” – 1, National Party – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 32, SPI, National Block, SDPU(O) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 10, Industrial and Entrepreneurs Party – 5, “Rebirth” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 3, “non-fractional” – 0.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, let's follow established practice, because one of the four draft decrees has won the largest number of votes to go back to voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, let's not scream for one minute, but you won't shout. Let's follow the democratic practice that was, the decision that won the most votes, I'll put to the vote for the return. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, it's always been the same with us. I put the vote back on the draft decree, registration number 9270-1, which won 198 votes. Please vote. On the return to consideration. [[11:56:12]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. And the draft regulations are rejected. “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 0, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 3, SPI – 0, National Block – 20, SDPU(O) – 16, Ukrainian People's Party – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, Revival – 13, Reforms and Order – 13, Postfraction – 27. Dear National Deputies! A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u100	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you that at 12:30, we usually consider draft decrees on the selection of judges and the dismissal of judges. Right? We have a whole range of people to elect judges, so let's maybe take a look, and then we'll advise you what you're so worried about, in that case. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions, please note that the factions of the Ukraine Region and the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine are being announced for 30 minutes. [[united]] The leaders of the MP factions are requested to meet on the third floor of the meeting room for the Conciliation Council. Please, in five minutes. Break until 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u101	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Conciliation Council for the purpose of generating Harmonized Positions. Sadly, some of the initiators did not even attend the Conciliation Council. So please, you have the opportunity to say why you took a break. Who will act? Please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u102	Mikola Komar, faction of “Ukraine”. I was on the Conciliation Council, and I'm speaking. Dear colleagues, when we discussed the meeting of the Standing Committee, I am a member of this committee, the calendar of the current session, and we planned to listen to the information of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission on Election Law Monitoring and to hold a solemn closing of the session. What we're seeing here today is a series of laws that, let's say, ratify the agreement between the government of Ukraine and the government of His Majesty Sultan Iang Dipertuan A. Well, maybe it really would have to be ratified. But why do it on the last day. There are many Sultans, and we have one session and it ends today. That's why there's a proposal, well, there's other laws, let's say privatization of the Mayak factory. Why is it not understandable today that this issue is to be lobbyed in the Supreme Council? Why is Ukrnafta supposed to be lobbying in the Supreme Council today when we were planning to close the session? So there are two decisions that take away all the questions about closing the session. We were told today that we had a parliamentary hearing with you on April 26th. It is registered in Decree No. 9273 and we require it to vote not on parliamentary hearings, but on public hearings to invite all MPs. This will be much broader about the Chernobyl disaster, and this will no longer require us to keep the session open. We can close the session. Well, there's a second decision, which is actually about closing the current session. This is Decree No. 9274. The faction “Ukraine” requires the faction of the SDPU(o) to put these questions to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask my colleague Mikol Stepanovich to speak on behalf of the faction, the more authoritative, to look at the Saint and read. It said that on April 4, we were going to have a plenary session. That's the first one. The other one. When we made a decision and I warned you about that when we voted that we couldn't hold parliamentary hearings, parliamentary hearings on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl accident, because this goes beyond the calendar plan that we set out, then it was said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would continue its work. And the third. I would then ask you, my dear colleague, when you speak, to withdraw the proposals made by your faction regarding the urgent review of the laws that apply to the non-releasing of liquid enterprises. This was your offer, and you insisted. Including the Special Monitoring Commission, headed by a representative of your faction. So you have to sort yourself out in factions. And then you're going to go out on charges of someone wanting to continue something. And one more moment. Dear colleagues, I told you today, let the committee look into it. You're a member of the regulatory committee. It will, for you may be able to offer daily suggestions to satisfy your political vision of a process that we are developing extremely fast and dynamically. So I propose now, Your Honor, until the Conciliation Council gathers to determine how we will proceed with the judges of the Constitutional Court. The main motive you're asking to close is because you don't want to make the first decision, the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's at least choose from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have suggestions from our colleagues, Vernidubov, your representative, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, Maria Andriyevna Markusz, and Alexander Zadrodzny. Even if we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court, let the new Supreme Council take them to oath. When you talk about regulations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is evidently required to carry out its assignments by regulations and by law. But what, I guess, will be on the new Supreme Council of Ukraine? When you dominate and demand that every day vote as you please, all the more so when you don't read the documents, and you don't know what it is at all, and you speak on behalf of the faction. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
