ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:00]] There are 371 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleagues, Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich, who was 45 years old, and Remenjuka Alexi Ivanovich, who was 50 years old. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success in practical activities. I now give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on January 11, 2006. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: Five laws were passed, one bill was passed on the basis, two bills were sent to the bottom of the work, four bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, seven laws were adopted in a new edition, and the President's veto was overturned into two laws. Yes, you have a list of issues for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 January 2006. The issue of a permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies is under review. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Regulatory Affairs, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a statement to our colleague Gladys Vasil Ivanovich on the time-limiting submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. As we know, by the Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 30 November last year, he was appointed Director General of the State Railway Administration. Therefore, the committee, in accordance with the requirements of part one of the first article of the Fifth Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, has taken a decision and has made a draft decision for your consideration, proposing to suspend the term of office of the National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Gladys Vasil Ivanovich, elected in the one-maned constituency number 179, Kharkiv district, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please, Your Honor, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u3	Honourable National Deputies, submitted to the vote the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine Gladysil Ivanovich”, registration number 8695. Please vote. [[10:06:38]] For 280 Decision taken. The question is about the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. Valery Dmitrovitch is Mishur? One minute! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitution Act, the Supreme Council also has the right to form a composition of the Constitutional Court of 18 people, but unfortunately we do not have our respective quota from the Supreme Council. A judge of the Constitutional Court under article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 16 of the Constitutional Court Act, may be a citizen of Ukraine, who, on the date of his appointment, has a higher legal education, an apprenticeship for at least 10 years, resides in Ukraine for the last 20 years and speaks the national language. In accordance with the materials collected, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the following: Bordenyuk Vasil Ivanovich, Vorob Peter Adamovich, Vołničnik Ivan Pantelemonovich, Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich, Steczuk Petra Bogdanović, Lithuaniaak Oleg Mihajlovich and Markus Marija Andrija Andrijavni They all meet the requirements of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. In accordance with the Constitutional Court Act, voting takes place in secret and by balloting. Therefore, there are no legal claims to these candidates; the question is that the House should vote in favour of any candidates before the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u5	Yes, then, come on, dear fellows, no, any questions? Please record three minutes, questions. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs. Stoyan, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u6	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukraine Party. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, well, something's getting so tedious. We understand that it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to work in full. And when we see that today both the President and some of our colleagues say that they misjudged the government and so on. And they're already going to the Constitutional Court, so you don't think they're just pushing to create the Constitutional Court and to extend the laws they need? I think that this time the Party of Regions will not vote on the candidates, although our candidate is worthy. But it's not a question of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u7	This is a matter for the Supreme Council to appoint or not to appoint suitable candidates from the Supreme Council. But I would like to remind Mr. Stoyan and all of you of the fact that the Judges’ Assembly has appointed six candidates and the President. And according to the Constitution, we have to take an oath within one month regarding those judges. And with regard to the appointment of the Supreme Council, that is also up to you. There is, of course, a political component, but there are requirements of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. And we need to form it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u8	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u9	Your Honor, there are certain rules and requirements for the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court. One of these norms is the provision of biography and other accompanying documents. Those nominations that were submitted earlier, we know and have studied these documents. And there are two more candidates, and we don't know anything about these people. So it's kind of an idea that someone is pushing you and very good at whatever it takes to deal with this issue. Although I, my personal opinion, agree with the previous speaker, who has already given an assessment of the situation surrounding this issue. That is, under the conditions that exist today, there will be no solution to this issue, for the social and political situation is very disturbed. Thank you. The first part of the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u10	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. No one's pressuring me or the committee. We can only be pressured by the law itself and by the requirements for the election of judges. I've given you other nominations, other than the known ones that have been discussed here, are Bordenyuka, Sparrow, Steczuka. In the spring, the committee considered these candidates, collected materials, biographies, and data. These are worthy people, as are our other candidates for the positions of judges of the Constitutional Court. And there's no pressure. The question is only for the Supreme Council to take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u11	Vladimir Stretović, please, the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u12	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. Vasil Vasilovich, do you know that we have a number of judges who are chosen by assemblies appointed by the President rather than by oath? You're in charge of the Committee on Legal Policy, and in my time, I headed this committee in 94-98, so tell me, what kind of legal policy is being implemented today in the state? Is this in harmony with the Constitution? Should we do that? Why, in writing down the Constitutional Court Act the rule that the judges of the Constitutional Court are sworn before the Supreme Council, we meant that this is the legitimization of it at the oath of the people and the representative body is the Supreme Council. Why is this procedure not being carried out today and the oaths of those judges who have already been elected and who are legally required to enter into the performance of their duties? Why doesn't the committee you're in charge of put this issue before the Supreme Council that this procedure needs to be carried out, because it turns out that the Supreme Council is usurping power and not allowing it to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. In accordance with article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is held at the hands of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, not later than one month after the appointment of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The committee considered the matter, made its decision, collected the relevant materials, prepared the draft decision. Please tell me, what can another committee do in this situation? You know what I'm asking these questions in different ways, but there must be the political will of the respective factions of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u14	Yes. Vasil Vasilovich, since, on the first question, honourable colleagues, the information provided, let us immediately give information on the second question about the election of members of the High Council of Justice, and then ask Valery Dmitrovich Mishur to tell us about the order of voting. No warning? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u15	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Higher Council of Justice consists of 20 persons and carries out vital functions in the formation of the judiciary, especially when it comes to the appointment of judges for the first five years, and then it is already the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with Article 6 of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, a citizen of Ukraine, under 35 years of age and under 65 years of age, who has lived in Ukraine for at least 10 years, has a national language, has a higher legal education and an internship in the field of law for at least 10 years. To this day, the committee has submitted material to our colleagues on the Eudemimov Valerija Alexandrovich, who has already worked in his time and as a member of the High Council of Justice and Head of the High Council of Justice and of the Czervetsky Leonid Mihajlovich, who also intends to be elected to the High Council of Justice. All materials meet the requirements of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. So there's a proposal to put these candidates on the ballot and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u16	There's a question before. Please sign up, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the question to Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka. Catherine Semenovna Samylik faction of Communists, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u17	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! How do you think it's normal or not? We know that Leonid Mikhailovich Cherniwiecki from this rostrum was always calling him the head of a party there. What's more, he's in another party now, he's entering another block, but he keeps saying he's leading one of the parties. Now here I read that the day before Leonid Mikhailovich's vote on joining the High Council of Justice, electing, more loyally, than the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become unparty. I'm thinking the same thing, well, how long can this festivities be, how long can this lie be? Why write, for all the time you were complaining that you were leading one of the Christian parties, and even more so, that if you were a Christian in a Christian state, why should you be writing lies? Is that not a reason not to consider the candidate’s lack of credibility in the autobiography of the applicant for a very high position?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u18	I think it's more of a question for Leonid Chernivetsky, but in itself partying or not partying is not an obstacle to being a member of the High Council of Justice. I lead the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, but I am a member of the High Council of Justice. We haven't checked this data, but I don't think it's an obstacle to his being elected a member of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u19	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, what criteria do you think the committee has put forward for these positions? Do they meet the criteria? And as far as I'm concerned, I'd like you to hear it here, not only by national MPs, but also by people who listen to us on the radio, watching it on TV. What are the possibilities in the High Council of Justice that it does to make people understand what level of trust there should be in the candidates for these posts and in accordance with a member of the High Council of Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u21	You realize that if the Supreme Council of Justice forms a judicial corps and establishes appropriate requirements, and in fact even to some extent accepts examinations from candidates for judges for the first five years, to the members of the High Council of Justice the requirements should be extremely high, except for those mentioned in articles 148 and 16 of the Constitution and Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court, of course, these are moral qualities, because this is very important and all other necessary conditions. So in our view, in the view of the committee, both candidates meet these criteria, these requirements, and can be elected to the high office of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u22	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u23	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, highly esteemed Vassil Vasilovich! The faction suggests that we go to the voting procedure without discussing it. Why do we leave this position? Because so that we don't continue to accuse Parliament that we don't want to approve the judges, either we don't consider the issue or we don't discuss it. We suggest we move on to the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u24	Yeah, time's up. Please sit down, Vasil Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen. I'll be right there, I see. Dear colleagues, I would ask very much of you that factions and national MPs take part in the vote. If you do not have all the candidates proposed, please select one for which you will vote. But the Supreme Council has to demonstrate that it's moving, by implementing the legal rules that it needs to implement. It's about whoever's pushing Onopenek Vasil Vasily Vassilovitch. I'm pressing for us to comply with the law and I'd like to take this into account. Now, for one minute, don't stop working. Mishur Valery Dmitrovich. Please calm down, head of the Counting Commission. Don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the members of the Counting Commission, the National Deputies of Assadchev, Hinzburg, Grzezhev, Kalichenko, Karmazina, Kafarsky, Kostinyuk, Mother, Manchulenka, Mirimsky, Nadrag, Ryabik, Sitnik, Soboljeva, Fomenka, Crnowila, Chichchanova and Shevchuk to meet in five minutes in our room where we work. That's the first one. The other one. We'll vote with two ballots. And thirdly, we plan that the vote can take place at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u26	Yes, Your Honor, the information to your knowledge has been proved. A series of factions. Just a minute. A number of factions called for 30 minutes to be consulted, these are factions: The National Movement of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the “Regions of Ukraine”, the “One Ukraine” and the BUT. [[united]] So are you going to ask for a break or are you going to demand a speech? Please, come on. Oleg Grigorovitch, please, which one of you will it be? Gregory Omelchenko. Jaroslav Kenzier will be, won't he? One minute, I've already announced. One minute, I've already announced it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u27	National Deputy of Ukraine Grigory Omelchenko, election block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I would like to draw your attention to the events that are taking place around the signed contract for the sale of gas, Russian gas in Ukraine and what concerns the Swiss company Rosukre Energo. I want all Ukrainian and Ukrainian national MPs to know from the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities who are behind this company, Rossukrenerego, who will today be the only gas exporter to Ukraine, both Russian and Turkmen. In the media, as well as me, as the deputy head of the Anti-Corruption Committee, organized crime, information was received that the agreement between NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” and Gazprom and “Rosukrenenergo” was signed at Gazprom’s office on January 3 at the second hour of 30 minutes of the night and slightly later at the end of its position and the signing of the agreement was attended by so-called businessman Semen Mogilevich, who, according to media reports, is in an international search that the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced. Also in the summer of last year, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Alexander Turchinov, stated that the activities of the Swiss “Rosukre Energo” are controlled by Semin Mogilevich. I'll tell you, your Honorary colleagues, who reported that the information I own and published in the press was twice condemned by the Russian court, is a citizen of four states: Russia, Ukraine, Israel, Hungary, is accused by the United States of being guilty of laundering more than 150 million dollars in dirty money and fraud. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} And, if I remember, this is a scandal involving the US Bank of New York in 1999, and it's accounted for over 10 billion dollars in this bank. U.S. dollars. Moreover, last summer, according to the head of the Security Service, Alexander Turkin, criminal cases were committed against officials, these mediators. And I wonder, what is the fate of these criminal cases? Ukraine has suffered damage and has not budgeted more than 1 billion. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} The United States of America. As Ukraine's national deputy and deputy head of the committee, I have a question: is it known to the President of Ukraine who directly participated in these negotiations in the signing of the contract, who is really in control of this intermediate structure – “Roskrenergo”? And what is the fate of criminal cases that have been violated? And to conclude, Your Honor, Mr. Head, 30 seconds to complete while you are at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u28	Thank you. All of it. Please. Please, everything. Yes, please, Kenzior Jaroslav. Please. Calm down, respectable colleagues, come on, that's all. All right, we're out of speeches. Please finish the speech for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u29	Yes, dear fellows. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask you to consider my statement to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General for the review of the information published in the press and I have been told, and to give the people's deputies a comprehensive answer to all these questions. And I'd like that. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, send this to the Security Service and the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior from the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u31	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. On January 10th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was actively promoted, with the active support of the Head of the Supreme Council, sending absolutely unlawfully in violation of the Constitution and the Rules, the Government of Ukraine resigned. In view of these clear and conscious violations of the Constitution and of the Rules of the Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I and my colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Orobec, have prepared and registered in the Supreme Council a draft resolution on the removal of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, from holding plenary meetings in conjunction with. This draft regulation is designed in connection with a grave violation of Article 87 and Article 115 of the Constitution and Articles 5.3.1 and 3.8. 7 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania during the plenary session of 10 January 2006. In this regard, we believe that for further productive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is necessary to remove Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich from holding plenary meetings and to assign him as the national deputy of Ukraine to find time to study the legal and regulatory acts of the Ukrainian State. That's the way the draft of the adoption sounds. In view of the grave violation of article 87, of the 115th Constitution of Ukraine and of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of article 5.3.1 and on the basis of article 3.8. 7 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules: First. Remove from the holding of plenary meetings the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The other one. Instruct the Ukrainian national deputy, Ms. Vladimir Mikhailovich, to find time free from participation in plenary meetings, to study the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. For Ukraine’s national deputy, Litvin Volodymyr Mikhailovich, cash payments related to the execution of parliamentary duties and official obligations. Financial justification. The adoption of this decree does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. And in closing, I'd like to say one more thing. Vladimir Mikhailovich often argued on January 10 with what he had done in December. Then, when he has done well for Ukraine, his conscience still suffers today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u32	Please give me this motion for a ruling. I'm ready to have a public discussion with Jaroslav Kenzior about not knowing the Constitution and the Rules. And I'd like to tell my colleagues at the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, when you sign statements, you see what you're signing. Please now have the right to speak from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the region of Ukraine. [[united]] And I'll put your proposal to the vote, I'm not afraid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Shufrich, opposition Block “No! ” Unfortunately, yesterday and the day before, we witnessed the brutal deception of the people of Ukraine. Our society is afraid that in about 60 days there will be some kind of collapse in the government system. So I want to show our poor authorities the text of the Constitution of Ukraine, which, by the way, published by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, where in the 115 articles to which they refer, it is clearly written that if a government resigns the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it assumes its duties to appoint and choose a new cabinet of Ministers. And there's no limit in 60 days. And we have to stop this speculation. But yesterday we witnessed, in my opinion, brutal interference with activities, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that since January 1st, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become the central body of political power in Ukraine. And we are said to have made a decision to resign in violation of article 85, paragraph 12, of the new Constitution. So, I read: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine includes the decision on the resignation of the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers.” In what way do we make this decision? This is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we took advantage of it. But yesterday we witnessed statements that today discredit Ukraine as a whole, that create a conflict between branches of power, that do not contribute to the normal functioning of the country by Chief Sergey Petrovich. He has long been known in this circle as the minister of “What Can You Choose? ” When he was in opposition, he was in opposition -- he attacked Kuchma. When he became Minister of Kuchma, he destroyed the opposition. When he was in opposition to Yushchenk, he criticized him. When he became Minister of Yushchenka, he demeans the opposition. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision on the discharge of the post of Head Sergey Petrovich for discrediting Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u34	So, I would like to read to the honourable national deputies, Jaroslav Kendzior and other signatories to study the Rules first. The regulation states: “In the event of a gross or systematic violation of the Rules by the chairman of the meeting of the Supreme Council on a proposal made by at least two MPs and factions, after a brief discussion it may decide to withdraw it from holding plenary meetings for up to two days.” It was necessary to study the Rules first and then put them to the vote. But, together with not having a discussion, I will put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on removing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from holding plenary meetings. Registration number 8694. Please be sure. [[10:35:51]] For-67 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine", Communists 0, N, "Our Ukraine" 29, People's Party, Block of Timoshenko, SPU, National Block of Lithuania, SDPU(o) – Zero, Ukrainian People's Party – 5, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, Reforms and Orders – 12, industrialists and entrepreneurs, “only Ukraine” and “Afterfractional” – Zero. Yes, please, according to procedure. You'll be on your way. Please, Mironenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u35	The Communist faction, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u36	And now we will follow the procedure and the Rules. Then we'll see how much work we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u37	The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Economic Policy, as well as a number of factions, recommended that the plenary consider draft regulations Nos. 8432, 8431 for the people of Ukraine on the establishment of the Single Economic Area of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, which will ensure economic development, an increase in the standard of living of our people, a stable supply of energy at affordable prices. These issues have been placed on the agenda twice. But someone's shutting them down. Please understand and punish the guilty. We insist that these extremely important rulings be put to the vote right now for the people of Ukraine. Thank you. And let the people understand: whoever wants a single economic space, who wants to develop the economy, raise the standard of living of the people, will vote in favour of those decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u38	What? One minute, dear colleagues, we have really discussed this issue on the conciliation board twice or three times, it has come to light because there are so many bills. We will be there in the chapter: integrated into the agenda, decision-making, consideration and decision-making if the Supreme Council makes a decision. Assadchev, please. I ask that these documents be renewed for the members of the secretariat. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u39	Come on, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the majority of you are in charge, I want you to be at least correct in this matter. The opposition today is us, and you are most of us today. You have taken full responsibility after the resignation of the government, and bear this responsibility to the Ukrainian people, having the courage to bear responsibility for your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on, let's move on. You know, there are political forces that want power, not responsibility. And there are political forces that have no authority but are responsible and responsible for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u42	It's being announced. What? Well, a little later, well, wait, please. Well, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to work. What should we put in order of the day? It's being announced. What? Two factions – Reforms and Orders and Our Ukraine – demanded a recess or a statement. Please. Just a minute. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. Let's do it this way. Adam Ivanovich says he will continue the meetings, and the leaders of the MP groups and factions will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u43	Break? Please. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Leaders of MP groups and factions So do you need to gather or do you not need to gather? You don't have to? You insist on just taking a break. All of it. Break for 30 minutes, until 11 o'clock 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u44	Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll continue our work. Two factions: the Reform and Order faction and the “Our Ukraine” faction took a break for consultations. Please, who's going to do the results? Come on, please. Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u45	Statement by the deputy faction of the Political Party "The People's Union of Ukraine". At a meeting of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and factions, held on Tuesday, 10 January 2006, the deputy faction of the Political Party "The People's Union of Our Ukraine" made an urgent proposal to consider the bills. Concerning amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, No. 7732-6. [[on the characteristics of the criminal offence]] The introduction initiator is the President of Ukraine. On amending some of Ukraine’s pension laws. Registration number 8445-1. The introduction initiator is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is about limiting the maximum amount of pensions for officials and removing the MP's in touch with local councils. It should be noted that the President of Ukraine has defined these bills as urgent for consideration. There was no objection to the inclusion of these bills in the agenda of those present on the Conciliation Council. However, these issues are not included in the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine this week. The need for urgent consideration of the bill is due to the fact that, from the date of the restoration of the MPs' immunity, all levels of government are directed to rural, rural, urban, district and district councils in 514 cases to bring MPs to criminal responsibility. Yet only 73 of these were satisfied, and 326 were rejected. The inviolability of members of local councils helps to avoid the criminal responsibility of those involved in serious crimes. The impunity of the individuals noted causes deep resentment in society, resulting in a sharp decline in the authority of the State as a whole. In another project, due to the imperfections of current legislation, there has been a situation today where most pensioners receive a minimum pension of 332 bracelets, while the pension of citizens who use special laws may amount to tens of thousands of dollars a month. This puts Ukraine’s senior citizens in unequal conditions, conflicts with article 24 of the Constitution on equality of citizens’ rights and freedoms, and provokes misunderstandings and fair resentment in the vast majority of pensioners. Officials are expected to receive the same pensions as most Ukrainian citizens, not 30-50,000 as today. And those who commit crimes should answer, not hide behind parliamentary intrusiveness. We demand that we immediately consider the legislation that we are expected to adopt today by millions of Ukrainian citizens. We demand that judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who have been elected at a meeting of judges appointed by the President of Ukraine be able to take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay and take up their duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's clearly agree to such a proposal that the bills that he has just sounded. The numbers of these bills that Sergey Zisko just gave us, I'm going to ask the secretariat to prepare them. And we will consider them in the chapter “to bring them into the agenda and consider” along with other bills and we will make a final decision so that we can continue to work in a constructive way. No warning? So that's it. I'm not breaking up a meeting. Calm down, I know what to do. Let's do it this way, ladies and gentlemen. Since we are now considering the issue, there is a chapter “to be included in the agenda”, we will get to that chapter and we will consider the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. No warning? Let's do it. Now, let's all calm down, put the committee to a vote, so that it will consider this order immediately, and that's all we're doing, and we're still working on it. And then we'll decide whether to put it in the agenda or not. Is he taking this approach so everyone can calm down? I'm voting on a proposal to appoint a committee on legal policy, to review the draft regulation without delay. Registration number 8,700 on the release from office of Justice Minister Sergey the Head. Please vote. [[11:19:38]] For 228 Please gather the committee, study the matter. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 45, Communists – 55, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 34, Block Timoshenko – 33, SPU -2, National Block – 21, SDPU (o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 4; National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” – Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 2, “One Ukraine” – 6, non-fractional – 7. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine is under review. Yeah, who's gonna report it? Are the materials given for this purpose? Yes, since the materials did not arrive at the right time, the questions are passed on. There'll be materials, we'll look at them. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on combating trafficking in persons and engaging in prostitution]] Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u47	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A committee on law enforcement was discussed in a second reading of the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Combating Trafficking in Persons and Involving in Prostitution. All the comments that have been made to this bill are taken into account, except for one comment that I have made. This observation refers to the fact that last time it was excluded from the law on prostitution. I have proposed that part 1 of article 149 should be made available to human trafficking in such a way as to “Trafficking in persons, i.e. recruiting, moving, hiding, issuing or receiving a person through the use of deception, blackmail or vulnerable human beings for the purpose of exploiting or buying or selling another illegal contract to which a person is the object of the same purpose”. It was rejected. And there was also a question about prostitution, which I think should have been included in part one of the first articles of 149 in relation to what it had to do, and in this proposal, and the decriminalization of this action, if a person who engages in systematic prostitution falls into the perspective of law enforcement agencies and actively cooperates with them so that people who engage in trafficking in human beings for this purpose or are organized into this criminal activity of others and, including minors, it means that such persons, in active cooperation with law enforcement authorities, are not subject to criminal responsibility. I would like this amendment to be supported. So please put her to the vote. Finally, all the amendments to the bill are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposals submitted to the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine are practically all taken into account. [[on combating trafficking in persons and engaging in prostitution]] The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. Please note that I am voting on this proposal, on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, on the bill of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on combating trafficking in persons and engaging in prostitution. Registration number 4179. Please vote. With the amendments that have just been made by the deputy chairman of the committee. Without it, yeah? No amendments, finals of the committee, please vote. [[11:24:47]] For 270. The law is passed. I said, "Dear colleagues, on the committee. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko, acting as Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! So today we have an old television and radio bill in the year 94 that's out of date and morally and from every point of view, because there's been a long time of new relationships and new technologies, including digital television, cable television and so on and so forth. Thus, the committee, taking into account the vast majority of amendments, and more than 300 were made, of which nearly 250 were counted, prepared for a second reading a new edition of the television and radio bill. The concept of law is the full transparency of the relationship between channel owners, creative groups, TV viewers, relations with the National Council and so on and so forth. We rejected only those amendments, even the good amendments, professionally made, which were not included in the concept, in the general concept of this law, or else it would be inaccurate. So the project has a transparent and structured system of state regulation for the development of the National Broadcasting Space, which is based on the new domestic legislation and international acts ratified by Ukraine. You can still count it. I'm ready to report on the rejected amendments. The Committee’s view is to ask the Supreme Council to support it in its second reading and in general to adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, no warnings about the committee's proposal? I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Law “On Change of the Law of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting”. [[new editor]] Registration number 3651. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:27:43]] For 218. Dear colleagues, the law is done. I'm putting to the vote a motion for a return to draft Law 3651. Please vote. We vote in favour. Oh, I'm sorry, I told myself. [[11:28:13]] For 236 We're back. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, in general, a bill of the Law on Change in the Law of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. [[new editor]] Registration number 3651. Please vote. [[11:28:44]] For 242 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct is being announced for consideration. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] Reporter Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the relevant amendments to the Act on Executive Conduct in the second reading and believes that it should be accepted both in the second reading and in general for such reasons. First of all, 15 proposals were made by national MPs, including 13 proposals, and only two proposals were rejected. The essence of this issue is extremely important, since it is about improving the functioning of the State’s executive bodies, which are subordinated to the Ministry of Justice. In particular, complaints often arise that a court’s decision has not been executed for a long time. We're setting a deadline now for one month. Instead, the claim, which today appears to be an implementing document, cannot be an implementing document and does not comply with our Civil Code and European legislation. So we take this problem down and we rule it out as an executive document. And it's very important that we don't need a court ruling on bank accounts again. Now there's a court decision, and let's say when the execution is going to be done to get the money back from the bank account, we need the court's decision again. To some extent, this is absurd because time is running out, funds are being hidden, and the effectiveness of the State Executive Service is being lost. The Ministry of Justice, and here is Vice Minister of Justice Mikolaajovich Šupenya, who supports us, we found support on the committee. I mean, I think it's a very important law in the future, and on behalf of the committee, I ask you to adopt it both on the basis and in general. In the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! The committee's proposal to your knowledge is proven. Is there a warning? Kozlowski, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u53	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I have a warning. If we cheat on businesses without a trial, they're all going to take it away, there's not going to be a decision yet. You know how tax and other structures work. That's why I'm against it. I have a warning. It must be through a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u54	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u55	Vasil Vasilovich knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u56	There is no correction, but the language is: a court decision when there is a court decision. You just don't need a court decision again. And only on the basis of the judgment of the court, of course, are you right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, Leonid Chernewicki has made a draft decree on the non-admissibility of the bill. Is there a Leonid Czerniwiecki? None. In view of the procedure and regulations, I am voting on the first proposal by Leonid Chernivetsky in the form of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Act amending the Law on Implementing Implementation of Ukraine. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] Registration number 6023/P1. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:33:10]] For-44 The decision is not taken. There is a motion for a second reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] Registration number 6023. Please vote. [[11:33:43]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Then I'll put a motion to the vote, if it matches, to send for the second reading again. This suggests that the Chief Legal Authority do so. No warning? A motion for re-reading the draft Law, registration number 6023, is put to the vote. Please vote. To the others again. [[11:34:22]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, just before I was approached by the National Deputy Vasil Gureyev, the leader of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and informed me that the vote that took place with regard to the commission of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, when carried out, had been taken out and voted on by two factions. I'd like to ask respectable national MPs not to allow anything like this to happen, let's demonstrate a civilized approach. Calm down! Mukhin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u58	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have this question at all: how can I leave the people who have resigned the Government to resign from the Minister who is part of this Government? That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u59	Well, the point is, we've given the commission to the committee to study the subject and make an appropriate proposal. Well, the thing is, no one's included in the agenda yet. It is simply a commission for the committee to study and express its position. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, registration number 4085, is being announced for consideration. [[on the inclusion of funds and return periods]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Alexander Vasilovich Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u60	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The distinguished President, the people's deputies, your attention is drawn to the second reading of the bill on State guarantees for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings. In November 2004, we voted in our first reading. During this time, we have considered several bills on this subject. As laws, they were voted on. I recall history, but the President of Ukraine vetoed these laws. And today we are considering with you the last draft of this series on the return of contributions made in 2004. The bill, in fact, reaffirms the need for specific sources to fill the budget lines from which money is paid to compensate savings. Without such a detail, we can continue to face the situation where we will be selling public enterprises, such as Crimsonstali, for 24 billion bracelets and not a penny, from these funds, to investors, in fact, these enterprises, you know, have been built in a lot of money by investors, will not be returned. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour considered the bill at its meeting and 19 proposals were submitted for the second reading and 8 were taken into account, 5-6 were rejected. Most of the proposals were rejected, which, well, had already detailed the procedure and the mechanisms for remittances. This is mainly the case with the blank form of calculation. For public services, for education, for health services. The Committee suggests that the proposed bills should be supported on second reading, and that it should be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the legislative initiative that made the proposals is unaccounted for, insists? You don't? I don't see the National Bank. Their number of proposals are not included here. Then we'll vote. In front of the voice. The Cabinet of Ministers, I'm sorry, has no relation to the second reading. I repeat, the Minister's office has no second reading attitude. The bill is already being drafted by the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers, and on the first reading, prove what you want. Here is another draft of Matthew Paul’s decision on deviation. Is there a Matvienko Paul? None. But I am voting on a draft decision rejecting the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:39:53]] For-25 No decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. [[on the inclusion of funds and return periods]] Registration number 4085. Please vote. [[11:40:27]] For 242 The law is passed. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 55, Communists – 51, “Our Ukraine” – 2, People's Party – 35, Timoshenko – 24, Socialists – 29, People's Block Lithuania – 21, Social Democrats – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Rebirth Party – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Reforms and Order – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 2, “One Ukraine” – 4, non-fractional – 6. [[United]] The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Health Law is being followed. Registration number 7013-1. Reports Svetička Mikhailo Lukovic, Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u62	Mikhail Sithina, Carpathia, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council for Health, Motherhood and Childhood, in accordance with the 4 decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29.11.2005, under the headings 3139-4, 3140 and 3141, namely, on benefits for retired medical workers living in rural areas regarding salaries for educational and health workers working in rural areas for free of charge for the social services of cultural, educational and health workers and for the promotion of social protection for educational, cultural and health workers working in rural areas. The committee considered a joint draft of the Ukrainian Law on the implementation of the only social protection standards for education, culture, and health workers, which was developed in a committee that took into account the provisions adopted in the first reading, the draft laws of Ukraine under headings 7013-1, 7013-2, three and four. Proposals by the legal entities of the legislative initiative and the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to set the only social protection standards for budget workers, i.e. for education, culture and health workers in the form of salary allowances for service years of such size – more than 3 years – 10%, more than 10 years – 20%, more than 20 years – 30; an allowance of 25% for rural work; assistance in the amount of monthly salary for recovery in the provision of annual leave, an annual salary in the amount of monthly salary for conscientious work, an exemplary performance of service duties. It should be noted that, in accordance with article 57 of the Education Act, benefits have been introduced for education workers in respect of allowances for salaries, assistance in the amount of monthly salary to be recovered on annual leave and in the amount of monthly salary for conscientious work. In addition, the bill improves some of the terminology aspects of valid laws. Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council introduces a revised and general draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Implementation of Uniform Norms, and requests the Supreme Council to support this bill in its second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all comments are taken into account. I'll put it to a vote. I'll put it to a vote. Is your offer here? I don't see her here, Deputy Kozlowski. If there's an offer, you'll get the word. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Constitution of Ukrainian legislation on health care. Registration number 7013-1, let's help the rural intelligence. Vote. [[11:45:06]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” - 55, Communists - 54, “Our Ukraine” - 5, People's Party 37, Block of Timoshenko - 23, Social Party - 21, People's Block of Lithuania - 20, Social Democrats - 12, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, “Rebirth” - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 2, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, “One Ukraine” - 9, non-fractional – 4 [[United]] A draft Law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on Culture is under consideration. [[on the elimination of active establishments]] [[second reading]] Registration number 8159. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Tanjuk Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u64	National Movement of Ukraine, Les Tanjuk. Before the draft Law on Amendments to the Fundamentals of Ukrainian Law on Culture. First of all, I would like to remind you that this bill, approved by Parliament on 16 November 2005, was designed in the first reading to implement the decision we have already adopted not to allow the closure of sociocultural objects in rural areas since 6 September 2005. We've been working on this bill for a second reading. First of all, it's not just the elimination of active establishments, businesses, cultural organizations that are in communal property, but also the alienation of the basic assets that are on the balance sheet of such institutions. Enterprises, organizations are allowed only by a decision of the general congregations or a local referendum of the territorial community, which is their owner and by agreement with the central executive body in the cultural field. This is done so that we don't get familiar with all of the situations where, for example, the country club isn't eliminated, but the de facto, it only exists on paper, because the property in this cultural organization is alienated for the benefit of other owners. Secondly, the text of the bill is brought into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine on local self-government, which is why the proposed property management procedures are extended only to property that is in municipal property. We vote last time it's up to 300 votes, I think we'll all support a project to prevent the closure of objects of all this cultural significance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u65	Thank you. Suggestions are all taken into account. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending the fundamentals of Ukrainian legislation on culture. [[on the elimination of active establishments]] Please vote. [[11:48:04]] For 235 The law is passed. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 17, Communists – 52, “Our Ukraine” – 23, People's Party – 4, Block of Timoshenko – 20, Socparty – 23, National Block of Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, “Rebirth” – 2, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, “Reforms and Order” – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 9, “One Ukraine” – 9, non-fractional – 7. [[United]] The draft Law on Private Detective Activity is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 5380. Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u66	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A law enforcement committee considered Bill No. 5380 on private detective activity. One way to secure human constitutional rights to protect their legitimate rights and interests is through private detective activity that is used in the vast majority of the world’s countries. At this time, in Ukraine, this type of activity is not officially regulated by legislation, but is actually carried out by individuals and businesses alike. The adoption of the bill on private detective activity will allow it to legalize this type of activity, bring it out of the shadows, and establish civilized rules of the game. Experience in other countries shows that the presence of private detective activity increases the responsibility of the State’s law enforcement system to regulate the needs of citizens and society. The bill is designed to take into account the experience of similar laws in other countries. It defines the legal principles of private detective activity, reflects the tasks and principles of such activity, and identifies the subjects of private detective activity. The draft law defines basic services provided by private detectives, their methods of work, and restrictions on the conduct of detective activities. It also sets out responsibility for violating legislation on private detective activity, order of control and supervision of such activities. The adoption of this law will increase the ability of Ukrainian citizens to protect their constitutional rights and interests and establish a legislative basis for the creation of new jobs, allowing for an increase in the budget for private detectives to pay taxes. It takes into account all the observations made today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. 189 comments and suggestions were made before the bill. Of these, 125 are counted. Not including 64 comments and suggestions. Of these, one is not included in the amendment, the Long - Eight Amendments, the Peasant - 12 Amendments, the Bespalogo - 25 Amendments, the Gorbatova - 17 and the Sibka - one Amendment. These amendments all essentially applied to article 8 of this bill, which was excluded from it, and thus, if the authors of the legislative initiative do not insist on their amendments, the committee recommends that the prescribed bill be adopted in the second reading and, if there are no warnings, in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u67	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Yes! No, wait, please. Who among the authors of the amendments insists on the reasoning and voting of those who have been rejected? You don't? Then I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and generally as a law. I'd like to make up my mind. Law 5380.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u68	Please, Your Honor, vote. [[11:52:15]] For-67
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u69	Not accepted. Here, the General Legal Office writes that it requires substantial substantive drafting, perhaps voting for a second read. I bet I'm betting on who to send to the second reading again, please be sure. [[11:52:52]] For-58 The bill was rejected. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, registration number 6098. [[on liability for refusing to pay for the transport of citizens]] [[second reading]] Reported to the committee’s secretary on law enforcement issues, Mazurenko Vladimir Ivanovich. You don't? Who's from the committee? So let's see. Let me. There were two proposals from the Kelestin People's Deputy - they are included, so we have reason to vote. I am voting for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law on the addition to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning liability for refusal of payment of citizens, registration number 6098. Please vote. [[11:54:07]] For 241 The law is passed. The issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, registration number 7088, is being considered. [[on the subjective review of court decisions]] [[second reading]] Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Marcus Maria Andriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! A committee on law enforcement was discussed in a second reading of draft law 78. amending the Criminal Procedure Code on judicial review. The bill's comments and suggestions are all taken into account. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted in a second reading. And if there are no warnings, as a whole, as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, there were two amendments to the people’s representative of Moses, they were taken into account. That's why I'm voting on the second reading and generally as a law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the subjective review of court decisions. Registration number 7088. Please vote. [[11:55:52]] For 253 The law is passed. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7183, is under consideration. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of persons and citizens]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Andrew Schlell. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u72	Making changes and complements to the protection of personal freedoms and human rights and citizens. 7183, yes. All right, that's the second reading. The committee listens to what adjustments it wants to take into account. Most of the amendments, as far as I'm concerned, have been taken into account, and the claims of the people's deputies who would like to make further amendments have not been made. That's why I'm proposing to vote and that's it. Please, what committee decisions? It's a second reading. The committee's decision for third reading as a whole. If there were more readings, it wouldn't go out, gentlemen. Don't be ashamed of the rules, please. The committee's decision to support it. Support the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u73	Respectable colleagues, then, are counted. There are serious comments from the Legal Authority, but this is a remark. The amendments are taken into account, so I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of persons and citizens]] Registration number 7183. Please vote. [[11:58:10]] For 223. Show the factions, please. Now. Yes, “Regions” – 25, Communists – 55, “Our Ukraine” – and so on, of course. Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[11:58:43]] For 242 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, registration number 7183. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of persons and citizens]] Please vote. [[11:59:11]] For 256 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Let's literally work for a few more minutes, we have a few laws left. And there'll be a break, there'll be a break. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Enterprises, Their Associations, Institutions and Organizations for Urban Offences is under consideration, registration number 4112. Corge Vitaly reports. Please, two words and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u74	Vitaly Corge, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications considered a letter dated 17 December 2005 from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the removal from the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Responsibility of Enterprises, Their Associations, Institutions and Organizations for Urban Offences, registered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The creation of the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine, as well as the creation of a single vertical of state architecture and building control, requires the emergence of new construction priorities and requires a fundamental review of a series of existing laws of Ukraine. To date, Ukraine's Minbudarhiectura has developed a new draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on State architectural and building control, which will be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for consideration by the Supreme Council. In view of the above, the Committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Enterprises, Their Associations, Institutions and Organizations for Urban Offences, to be deleted from the view that it has become obsolete. [[Registration number 4112]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u75	Yes, dear fellows, do you understand? Then I put it, let's support the committee in a friendly way, take it off as one that has lost its relevance, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Enterprises, Their Associations, Institutions and Organizations for Urban Offences. Please vote. Vote. [[12:02:13]] For 213 Dear colleagues, the law is out of date, and the committee justly proposes that we reject, cancel as one that has already lost its relevance. I'm going to vote again. Vote, please. We're taking it off the table. Vote. [[12:02:46]] For 271 Thank you. The same is true of the Ukrainian National Institution Act. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky. 0939. Just let me know for a minute. There's gonna be a break, now. There'll be a break. We recently had a break at your request. We had a break at your request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian National Institutions Bill was sent by the Supreme Council for a second readout. [[institutions]] When we worked on this law, we concluded that it doesn't take into account the following. First. The granting of the status of a national university in the education system is not always justified. Of the 82 national higher education institutions granted national status, some of today’s puppies have lost their pace of development and have performances that do not meet the requirements of time. It is therefore necessary to review the methodology for rating and granting such status to institutions and institutions in Ukraine. The other one. Universities in Ukraine can be public or private. The status of a state institution worldwide is higher than that of a national institution. The National University can be established by any national and cultural community: Armenian, Jewish and so on. Adding an adjective to the name of an adjective can't be an indication of a rating: higher than other similar establishments, as well as a basis for granting any benefits. The decision to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council to re-read the National Institutions project provides an opportunity to prevent the adoption of insufficiently prepared legislation. The committee therefore requests that this law be removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the same opinion and the Ministry of Profiles, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers also asks us to support such a decision. I am voting on the removal of the draft Act on the National Institution, the Ukrainian institution, registration number 0939. Please vote. We're voting friendlyly. We're taking it off the table. [[12:05:18]] For 279 Decision taken. And the same fate awaits us with the draft Law on Some Social Protection Measures for Persons with Disabilities as a result of the general illness resulting from the exemption from military service, registration number 4610. Suskevitch, isn't it? Please inform Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich called the document a draft decree proposed by the committee. Motives for adoption, for initiating this decree, two. First, a number of positions proposed by this bill have already been resolved by other laws, and some proposals, some benefits that are offered to establish, are such that they exceed even the benefits of a war invalid. So to some extent, they don't fit the nature of this work. Therefore, the committee suggests that a decision be taken on the withdrawal, the annulment of the decision to adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u79	I am voting on the removal and cancellation of the decision on the first reading, on the draft Act on certain measures for the social protection of persons with disabilities as a result of the general illness resulting from the exemption from military service, registration number 4610. Please support me, because the other laws are already in place. Vote, don't relax, please. [[12:06:54]] For 282 Decision taken. Please, the word for information is given to the head of the Counting Commission, Valérie Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask the members of the Counting Commission to take their seats, and we will now vote on the election of the members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the approval of a member of the High Council of Justice. You'll get two ballots at the registration desks, two signatures to get these ballots. In front of the candidates you vote for, make a mark. We have 30 minutes to vote. So we start at 12:10, let's say, and we finish in 30 minutes, at 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u81	Thank you, Valery Dmitrovitch, well, the situation is clear. We have voted more than once, we know the practice. That's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break. The meeting will begin in 12 hours at 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u82	Invite your deputies to the session room so that we can continue our productive work. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovic from the party's “One Ukraine” and his membership in the political faction of the “Rebirth” Party. At the same time, I am informing you of the membership of the MP's People's Block of Lithuania in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Zadrozhny. Dear colleagues, the question is about the election and release of judges. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the committee. Who Is From the Committee? Okay, then we'll read. Ladies and gentlemen, the documents are given to you on this matter. I'll read the last names. Oh, Basil Vasilovich is. Vasil Vasilovich, please, or I almost took all your bread. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the judges' nominations for various positions – and to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, to the Supreme Administrative Court, to the Supreme Economic Court, to the Court of Appeal, to the local courts. You have the right decisions on your hands. And we recommend, in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the Status of Judges to choose these positions. Where we had appropriate problems with the judges, we removed them from the committee, gave orders to the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Supreme Court, to reconsider these nominations and re-examine the Supreme Council. According to the draft decree, please note the draft Supreme Council Regulation 8689. It is proposed to elect the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Krivendo Oleg Viktorovich and Mr. Nikitin Jury Ivanovich. They have appropriate internships, qualifications, recommended by the Head of the Supreme Court and the Higher Qualifications Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, do you have any warnings? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. The draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, registration number 8689, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[12:44:49]] For 270. Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u85	Thank you. Draft regulation 8690. In accordance with the first part of article 85, a draft Ordinance on the appointment of judges is introduced on an indefinite basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Javor, Mikol Anatoliyovich; To the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Ivaniščuk, Anatoly Petrovich; before
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u86	All right, I'll put a mark on it. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u87	to the Court of Appeal of Kiev Korchevévny Hennady Valeriyovich; the local Wallowsky District Court of the Galchenko District of Irina Vasilovna; The local Red Army District Court of the Donetsk district of Kuzmin Olen Eugene; the local Zitomir district court of the Basinsk district of Stanislav Fresnović; the local Golovanov district court of Kirovograd district of Butenko Olga Fedorovna; the local New Ukraine Regional Court of Kirovograd district of Garbus Olga Anatoliyevna; the local district court of Nikolayev Androszczuk Viktor Vasilovic; The local District Court of Ternopil, Danilevich Nadia Andriyevna and Old Gregory Stepanovich; the local Parliamentary District Court of Ternopil district of Ivanitski Oleg Romanović; and the local Ternopil City Court of Ternopil district of Gresak Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! We now exclude the names of Ivaniščuk Anatoly Petrovich and Starowyt Grigory Stepanovich and put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 8690, with the exception of two names Ivanišchuk and Starovyt. Please vote. [[12:47:06]] For-286 Decision taken. Ivaniszczuk Anatoli Petrovich, please come to the microphone and turn on the microphone of Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u89	Vladimir Stretović, HDZ Party, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The head of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Johnishuk, at the request of the chairman of the interim Musiaki commission, was the subject of a hearing by the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. We have now received answers from the High Council of Justice, from the Public Prosecutor's Office that the review is not complete, and the complainants are complaining that Mr. Ivanischuk has created an entire empire, where he has established himself to the right people, and is actually directing justice in the Hersonian region not from the point of view of the law, but from the point of view of how it should be decided. We have a detailed list of the property belonging to him, but according to a survey by the judges, there are members of his family, some of whom have already been sold. In this way we are overwhelmed by letters from citizens of the Hersonian region today that Johnishuk cannot be a judge. I want to point out that the mechanism of agreement of the Supreme Council is the opposite in order to clean up the judicial corps. Please do not support this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u90	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u91	Vladimir Mikhailovich, maybe Ivanitchuk will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! In early 2006, one of the companies in the Herson region, Biologist, wrote a number of complaints against me, personally to my family about material goods, about some sale, about corruption, but a test conducted by the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Ukrainian Attorney's Office, they're all checked, there's answers, in court, they're being accused, they're being refuted by newspapers, and we. So it was in March months, there are no complaints today. They're all closed, they're being checked by the committee, and that's why it's happening right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u94	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the committee examined all these complaints, gave orders to the High Council of Justice, sent these complaints to the Council of Judges of Ukraine, to the heads of the commission. And this data hasn't been confirmed. One is Johnishuk’s mother - in - law, and the other is his mother - in - law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u96	There was never a mother-in-law. Not registered, not in the mother-in-law, not ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u97	That's all there is to it. And the next thing you know, one car on the court balance. So all of these facts haven't been confirmed, we don't have any other data. So the committee recommends that we vote in favour of the judge, he has a lot of experience as a judge, and you know, as a manager, it's to take a certain negative view of ourselves and the entire work of the judicial system in the area. Yes, there is an appropriate order, but this is due to the fact that a party or a legal person is not satisfied with a decision. We feel that this is no basis for not recommending Johnishuk as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u98	Jaroslav Suhi, then Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u99	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been paying attention to the head of the committee of profile to the open bargaining position that we've recently taken on this committee of profile that we trust and trust. Last time I had the same situation when I protested against the appointment of Antonika, who is forming for today. The head of the Fedorov Court of Appeal for the same thing they've done in Herson. So I'd like to have an authority answer to the petitions and complaints of the national MPs, but I got an answer from the complainant as a mistreatment, and then you kept talking to me about the exodus on the stand here. I think we have these things over and over and over again when we come to the judge, trying to make a decision, not before, after the decision trying to understand the logic, and we hear the answer that you can complain about, I'm chosen for life. In order not to let that happen, we have to be a filter here in this room that won't miss what our voters are complaining about. That's what this is about, Vasil Vasilovich. Be principled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u100	Mr. Jaroslav, let me give you an answer. You see, there's a situation, you said the "agreement" position of me and the committee. When you ask for a judge once, the other MP asks for support or support. Thus, the position of the committee is based on law and there will be no other position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u101	The microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u102	Alexander Tkalenko, Herson, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine The question is. The judge must have the highest confidence in the public. I have two questions for Anatolia Petrovich. In Herson, two resonating matters have been affecting the social situation for a long time. This is according to the agri-project, when two circuit courts do not make decisions and 90 people are thrown out on the street, they starve to this day. And the second question for the Columbia store is when there is a definition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the illegal sale of this shop in the city centre and until now the courts in Herson ignore even the recommendations of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I think Anatoly Petrovich that the judge has an extremely high status and must have absolute trust among the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies, the agroproject case is referred to another court for our concern, it is not being considered at this time, but it is being considered in another area, given the importance of it and the fact that there are disputes around it, we have referred it to another court, we don't have it on trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u105	Victor Musiak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, indeed, came to the temporary special committee with material on the actions of the judge that we sent to the High Council of Justice, the Council of Judges of Ukraine. We received an answer such that he did not find any wrongdoing in his actions, and they did not see the possibility of not recommending it for that position. But I have to inform you that literally on the 12th we got new materials, here is a statue of various materials that came to the temporary special committee, and I haven't even been able to pass it all on to the committee. So there's only one thing I want to pay attention to. Usually, when material is available, we put the matter aside and turn to those materials again, examine them, and then make final decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u107	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u108	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you can see the mood of this hall, Anatoly Petrovich, you can see too. I may, of course, disagree with the claims made by Biologist, because to this firm there is much more claim than to a judge. But of course, there are other suggestions. And today, so that we don't make firm decisions, and the room is set up, I suggest we postpone the decision-making process, and let the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rework this issue so that we can consider this issue after we have considered it and not consider it today, Vasil Vasilovich. Don't look!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u109	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. I join my colleague, Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, and colleagues who testify to the need for further analysis. Anatoly Petrovich would like to say that. After four years as a national deputy, I was impressed by the fact that, practically, we felt and were able to learn about the shortcomings only in the prosecutor’s office and so forth. And they never received any material from the judicial administration. And the second. I'm talking to Vasil Vasilovich. Basil Vasilovich, well, six months ago, I once asked Vladimir Mikhailovich and Vladimir Mikhailovich to instruct you that, at the level of the areas, the national deputies be dedicated to the system when they are proposed for approval by a grass-roots judge, including the district level. Well, so to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u111	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, you know that in the Voice of Ukraine we publish all the lists of candidates for certain positions of judges. And in a month, we give you materials extra here in the hall. Therefore, there can be no claim to a committee; we meet the requirements of the law. And as for Ivanischuk Anatolia Petrovich, there was a proposal in the hall and Victor Lavrentiovich Musiyak that he had additional materials, and Vladimir Stretovic. I ask you to withdraw your application for further study of these materials by the committee and return to vote after further examination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, at the invitation of the committee, the candidant, Anatolia Petrovich, is put off for further study by the committee. Ancient Gregory Stepanovich, please come to the microphone. Yeah, who had a warning before? Who? Slippery, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u114	I received a number of petitions from citizens of the city of Zbaráz about the misconduct of the judge, who was appointed on short notice, Mr. Starovát Grigorija Stepanovič, about his inadvertent execution and the tendency to take court decisions in his duties. Therefore, there is a request from those who have applied, to violate disciplinary conduct against the judge of the local court of the Ternopil district of Starovat and, during the conduct of disciplinary conduct, to recall the submission of the Supreme Council of Justice from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the election to the post of professional judge of Starovat. In this case, it's documented, and I have these documents on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u115	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u116	We don't have any material or complaints about Old Gregory Stepanovich. In accordance with article 97 of the Law on “Constitution”, the national deputy Žizko has the right to initiate the question of disciplinary responsibility on his own. Since there is no legal basis for not voting for a judge today, I don't think we have any other way out except to support that candidate. But this does not prevent us from asking questions about his responsibility in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u117	Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u118	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to point out that you and I have adopted the Law on the Order of the Election and the Liberation of Judges. There is an article of this law that stipulates that when a vote raises a question from a national MP’s statement, it comes out of their complaints, reports, under such conditions the candidatures are withdrawn, these documents are transmitted, and this statement is submitted to the committee for consideration. He rechecks and then submits an appropriate application if necessary. So all the right reasons for this moment to take a step to verify, we have. By the way, as the law requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u119	Vasil Vasilovich, let's postpone the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, then please pass these materials on to the committee for further study. But it has to be done early. We've been looking at these issues on the committee recently.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u121	The review of Old Gregory Stepanovich’s candidacy is postponed until further study of the materials of all. The position of the committee, we have to go on. Yes, please, next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u122	Project Order 8691. It is recommended to select judges on an indefinite basis: to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine: Amjelina Sergija Yegorovich, Berdnik Innu Stanislavna, Vasilchenko Natalija Volodymyrovna, Gordijczuk Maria Petrovna, Konjška Konstantina Vladimirovich, Lanchenko Ludmila Venedictovna, Mironka Aleksandra Vlasovic, Philipchuk Nadia Grigorovna and Jurchenka Vasil Vasilovitch. You have the right materials on them. In addition, to the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Suharek Mikhail Gavrilovich and the local Vinicki District Administrative Court, Kuzmishin Vitali Mikolaiovich. Scarg, there's no claim to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u123	A motion is put to the vote for a committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 8691]] Please vote. [[13:02:47]] For 327 Decision taken. Yeah, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u124	Project Order 8692. It is proposed to elect Karabanja Vladimir Yakovitch as judge of the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court. He served as a judge of the Supreme Economic Court in his time, then headed the Ukrainian Judicial Administration. Now he wants to go back to work with the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. There are appropriate submissions and documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8692]] Please vote. [[13:03:44]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the judges whom we have just chosen to serve on an untimely basis and wish them a fruitful service of law. Now the question of the release of judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u126	In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution, 126, article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges proposes to be released from office: Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Belousov Lubov Viktorovna in connection with the application for resignation, Vróbjova Vladislav Valentinović in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Litvinenko Valentina Aleksiyevna in relation to the application for resignation, Šnipov Ljubov Grigorovna in relation to the application for resignation, Jakovič Viktor Kostinović in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Pavlenko Ludmila Alexiyevna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Rakhiv District Court of the Zakarpat district of Přesunka Volodymira Semenović in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye district of Andreev Aleutin Mikolayevna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Didenka Volodymyr Pavlovich in connection with his retirement, which impedes the continuation of his duties; Judge Calancean District Court of the U.S. District of Odinsov Galina Alexievna in connection with the application for release at his own request; Judge of the Sosnov District Court of Cherkasa Korsunov Tamara Fedorovna in connection with the application for resignation. The materials came to us from the High Council of Justice. We've been going through all this data. There's no pressure on any of the judges. This is their own expression. So there's a committee proposal to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, a motion is put to the vote for a committee to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges, registration number 8688. Please vote. [[13:06:25]] For 288 Decision taken. Yes, thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. What other question? Please, Samuel Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u128	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you said: “All have submitted statements.” You remember that until recently, I was speaking about Judge Odinzov. He openly bribes, openly humiliates people who have nothing but the Law. Of course, I sent the entire statue of documents to both you and the High Council of Justice and to the Higher Qualifying Judicial Commission. What I'm saying is that we don't have to just conclude that we're still going to have to say that they're making statements. They filed claims because there were circumstances because they were upholding the law, people are the main thing. It's a pity that we released the Judge of the Kalanchik District Court of the Hersonian District today, Odinsov. It's a bribe, it's a man who demeans the honor of a normal citizen of Ukraine. Let us continue to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u129	Catherine Semenovna, we were looking at materials that were from the Supreme Council of Justice, but those materials. Those who came to us, we sent them to the competent authorities who are entitled to make decisions, including those you have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u130	Yes. For what reason? We have completed our consideration of the matter. Yes, have a seat, please. For what reasons? There's no question of motive, dear colleagues. Well, come on, let's find out. Please inform Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch of the results of the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court and of the election of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u131	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, allow me to introduce you to the contents of the two protocols. Protocol on the Summary of the Secret Vote on the appointment of Judge to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included nominations: Bordenyuk Vasil Ivanovich, Verniubov Ivan Vasilovich, Vorobei Petr Adamovich, Hellenic Ivan Pantelijovich, Litwick Oleg Mihajlovich, Markusz Marija Andriyovni, Steczuk Petra Bogdanović. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the reckoning committee established. Number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized, 426. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 109. In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine” and chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Counting Commission decided to consider the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as not taking place. And another protocol. On the summary of the secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice included the candidatures of Eudkoim's Valery Alexanderovich, the Montenegrin Leonid Mihajlovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the reckoning committee established. Number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized, 426. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots 92 In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the reckoning commission decided to consider the election of a member of the Supreme Council of Justice to be such that it did not take place. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u132	All I'd ask is a reckoning commission, now, one minute. A reckoning commission to prepare information and provide the Supreme Council with information on the factions involved in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u133	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is what's happening right now, and you'll have that information in 16 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u134	Please sign up for 3 minutes for a question to the Head of the Counting Commission. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u135	Please give the word to the Ukrainian national deputy Sulkovski Pavlov Gnatovic, Ravenščina, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I'm not the reporter who stands on the stand, I'd like to raise a question, but I wanted to see Mr. Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich, who used to give, report to us, report the drafts to the judges. I'd like to ask if the committee, Vasil Vasilovich, has already held a meeting with you to consider draft decree 8,700 on the dismissal of Chief Sergey Petrovich? This person is indeed the provoker who is provoking Ukrainian society today in this position. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to go now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u137	Questions to the Head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u138	We ask you to return to the consideration of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u139	Well, that's not a question for me. I'm asking you to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u140	Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u141	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u142	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Valery Dmitrovich, lately, you and I know about this and we hear rumors from various state men that are coming out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is deliberately blocking the formation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The third time today was the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the third faction of the Communists, I declare, the third time I accepted the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Yes, please inform today who is blocking the election of the courts of the Constitutional Court. This will be the first answer for the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u144	I thank you for asking Valentin Grigorovitch, and I want to answer him like that. The Supreme Council does not block this process. The head of the Supreme Council, along with the First Deputy and the Conciliation Council, is appointed. The calculus commission is running the entire process of technology for the election. The factions take ballots, but there are some factions that deliberately don't take ballots. That's absolutely right, in 16 hours we're doing this kind of analytical work right now, we're going to tell you who's really blocking the Constitutional Court election. As far as the Communist faction is concerned, you said correctly, we are constantly voting on these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u145	Sergei Slabenko, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! We're going to miss the rhetoric of some factions that have different colors. And I'd like to make the following point. Let's not confuse two things, bringing judges to an oath that can't take place right now, because there is exactly a separate position of MP groups and factions. And the second question. I would like to understand that we had a secret vote, and it is certain that every national MP in the manner defined by the Rules had a way to determine whether he was participating, whether he liked or disliked the specific candidates proposed for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court. I understand that there is now some sort of analytical work to tie the presence or absence of individual national deputies to the faction positions on one or the other. So I would like to emphasize the following, let's divide these notions and please, that you're running a commission for work now, that this is an analytical work, a commission, what it was predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u147	I want to answer that question. The thing is, the lists are completely legal, open. Whoever takes each newsletter is signed and so it's very easy to determine, maybe in the Counting Commission there are representatives of all factions absolutely. And people from different factions are interested in who is working on this. So it's very easy to figure out whose factions the ballots took and who didn't. And as for the secret ballot, here you'll excuse me, no one can determine who voted. It is only about who took part in the vote. Similarly, let's say that in the election of the national MPs, it can be determined that there are 400 people living on this street, 300 of whom have taken the ballots, and others have not taken the ballots, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u148	Victor Dmitrovich, thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that the question is in such an area as open lists, the deputy received a ballot and signed off. And the Counting Commission will inform the Supreme Council how many ballot papers have been taken from and from which faction. If there is any expectation that there will be a court-martial, there are already 8 candidates, please choose at least one. If you don't mind, take the ballots and vote against everyone "against" it's your personal business, but take the ballots, it's the duty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And let's not get this childish directness out here in Parliament. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks and Other Laws, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 5 January 2006, is under review. Registration number 7248. Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, National Deputies, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovation of Technological Parks, which was adopted by you, the Supreme Council on 15 December, introduces a wide range of state support for technology parks, including subsidies, credit and other instruments. Subsidies in this law are usually expressed by the State in the form of the release of technology parks, participants in these parks, and joint ventures from taxes. This is a tax exemption for added value, income tax, and import duties. The failure to pay these taxes in our opinion is contrary to a number of laws, namely, articles 13, 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 27 of the Code of Budgets, articles 2 and 3 of the Law on the Tax System, and article 15 on the protection of economic competition. In addition, the provision of added tax benefits is contrary to the five - year moratorium that was imposed on this particular tax and is unfortunately violated by this law. As an example of our attitude toward this law, we can give an example of how some commercial structures can use this law to reduce taxation. For example, if in the context of the introduction of special accounts, what is proposed by law for the added value of a tech park participant can theoretically increase the price of a product, and the buyer of such a product will charge the VAT tax credit for an increased amount. In addition, he will reduce his VAT liability, or he may even declare a VAT return that has never been paid back. According to our estimates, only proliferation for existing, existing technology parks will result in the loss of the State budget by 400 million dollars. It should be noted that the volume of innovation is increasing. The year 2003 was 13 billion. 2004 was 19 billion. Nine months in 2005 was already 18 billion. We don't mind tech parks. 70 million dollars is already a government target programme in this year's budget, but we're against distorting the competitive environment in the economy. We think it's an extremely dangerous law because it essentially allows any commercial structure to use this mechanism to reduce taxes on any amount. Therefore, there is a proposal by the President of Ukraine in a new version of the law to remove article 7, part 1, paragraph 5, from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the position of the President has been brought to your attention. I ask Igor Raphailovich of Yukhnovsky to express the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! I don't know what the deputy minister of finance is talking about right now, he should be talking about the President's veto, not the law as a whole. You know, there were already two Presidents' vetoes, and they were very divisive, and in the end, the President's last veto was called one: to withdraw the premium on the added value of the product. The president's motivation is that when the product is made, the buyer pays the value added tax, and so the tax exemption for the added value is not on the seller, that is, not on the technology park, but on the buyer, and we don't have to take that tax off because it's not on the seller, it's on the manufacturer. The committee reviewed the President's veto and agreed with him. So, I ask you to approve the version that we finally made of the Technology Works Act, taking into account the President's veto. So technology parks have certain benefits except for taxes on the added cost of products. First thing I ask. And the second. This is written in the version that was given to you today. And the second question. It says that the law takes effect on January 1. But that law, a long - suffering law, was passed in the middle of the last year, and it lasted for a long time. So we ask that we change the formulation of the final clauses so that the law enters into force on February 1, 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u152	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Well, we have to write it down then. We agree with the President, and plus, we have to predict it from January 1st, 2007. Otherwise it will not be budgeted. It doesn't make any sense. Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u153	Well, here's the problem. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. The Law was passed a long time ago. I mean, everything was fine, and yet I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to accept the President's proposals -- once and for all -- to put the law into effect as of February 1, 2006. Tech parks should start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u154	Please, on the basis of the vote, we will now vote. Please sign up. The position of the committee: to take into account the President's remarks and to adjust the date of entry, as of February 1, 2006. But only one comment was made by the president. Please, on the board. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u155	Please give the floor to our colleague Paul Gnatovich Sulkovski, Ravenščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u156	Sulkowski, please. Microphone, please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u157	Sulkowski, Sulkowski, I asked for a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u158	Microphone, please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u159	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky’s offer is well received. And I'm proposing his proposal to actually put to the vote, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u160	George Buiko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u161	George Buiko, please pass the word to Rodion Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u162	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please. Mikhailo Rodionov
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u163	Radios, Communist faction. Dear People's Deputies and Radio Listeners! With regard to this period of entry into force of the law. If we delay another year, we'll have nothing to invest. Technology parks have been out of business for more than a year because the veto is being vetoed once and for all. Therefore, please support the proposal from 1 February. Otherwise it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We've been proclaiming that the state guarantees the stability of a special regime for the innovation of technology parks, and we've been proclaiming all the time that the state is interested in creating new technologies, creating new jobs, and this program, including President Viktor Yushchenk. Therefore, this law must be adopted, written: of February 1. You know, as long as the mahogany gets loose in our country, how we're doing the laws of all of us. We have a major problem in this country, not in the absence of law enforcement. We don't even have 15 percent of the President's decrees, and that's the trouble of this state, the trouble of this parliament, the trouble of this government and this president. So let's vote for what Yukhnowsky has now proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u166	Basil Nadra, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u167	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! The proposal made by our colleague, Yukhnowsky, is more than objective and fair and must therefore be supported. Moreover, sometimes you hear the view that this may not be in connection with the budget code and everyone else. If the Cabinet of Ministers wants this law to start working, they will remove all these nuances by their orders, and it can actually start working from 1 February of this year. In any event, the members of the faction of the People's Block of Lithuania will support both the law as a whole and the proposal of the colleague of Yukhnov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, a proposal is made by the Committee on the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals, and clarifying that this law takes effect from February 1st 2006. Please vote. [[13:28:51]] For 331 The law is passed. Announcing the Ukrainian Housing Fund Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since January 05, 2006. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich. Please. To prepare Valeria Pavlovich the Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u169	Honourable National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Law on the Housing Fund for Social Assignment, cannot be signed because of the inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine with its individual provisions, which are conceptual in nature, namely: The Law provides that the Housing Fund for Social Assignment is formed and formed by local self-government bodies. This law provides that the activities of local self-government bodies in the area concerned are coordinated by the central authority of the executive branch on housing and utilities. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers, as noted by law, also relies on a number of responsibilities related to the administration of housing funds. In view of the number of reported cases of property in municipal property, this is contrary to article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that the territorial communities of villages, villages, cities manage property that is in municipal property directly or through local self - government. The other one. According to the law, one of the conditions for social housing is that there is no other place to live. And article one of the laws defines a social group as a social home provided to Ukrainian citizens only if it is the only place to live. This law provides for the possibility of removal from the social welfare of a citizen, the termination of a social housing contract with him and his eviction if the average monthly total income of citizens has increased and exceeds the legal limit. Thus, the appropriate persons, by law, can be deprived of the only place of residence, the possibility of receiving appropriate social housing. Third. According to the article, two laws governing the use of social housing are paid. In doing so, it consists, in particular, of a salary paid directly by the employer. The law excludes the possibility of free use of social housing, and therefore does not correspond to part two of article 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the possibility of housing for citizens who need social protection both for their pay and for free. In this context, the President is invited to introduce the provisions of the Social Housing Fund Act in accordance with the articles of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u170	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Valerius Pavlovich Desertoutenko, head of the Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u171	Thank you. Valery Desert Tenko, Block of People's Democratic Parties. Here before that, I apologize, there was an argument who voted. I can say boldly that our faction voted in favour of Leonid Czernovecki, Yudkoimov and supported all the heads of the Constitutional Court because I believe that the Constitutional Court must work. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and honourable colleagues, it was quite unexpected to me earlier when President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko vetoed the Housing Code, for which we voted 278 votes, absolutely without justification. It was even more unexpected for me when the veto was imposed on the draft law that we are currently considering. And I can say that the committee was looking for a way out. I can say that as a citizen, as a national MP, I do not really agree with any of the seven points of the remarks made by the President of Ukraine. Here's an example that we wrote in that law that was passed that the Cabinet of Ministers should set standards for all who are in the territory of Ukraine, who will allocate and monitor social housing. And the comments say that local self - government authorities should do so, there is every rural, village council. So of the 7 comments made by the President of Ukraine, we counted 6. Not one count. Please listen: The President is aware that the Law excludes the possibility of free use of social housing and does not comply with article 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This point is not taken into account. Since part of the second article of article 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that citizens in need of social protection are granted housing free of charge by the State and by local authorities, or for affordable wages according to the Law. So this is about housing, not about using social housing. Article 2 of the Law provides that citizens of Ukraine who are in need of social protection are granted free of charge. Thus, this standard is fully in line with article 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear National MPs, if the Ukrainian Housing Fund is adopted in a new edition, we will create the necessary legislative basis for solving one of the most pressing social problems of today's day – ensuring that Ukraine's citizens are not protected with modern and safe housing. I would like to remind you that last year, the committee prepared proposals for the 2006 draft budget of 1.5 billion dollars, which, if necessary, would provide adequate funding for the construction of housing in Ukraine. The specified proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u172	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u173	Yes, they were rejected because of the lack of a legislative basis for the creation, the operation of a social housing fund. The adoption of this Law will allow the necessary funds to be put into the draft state budget for the construction of social housing in the years to come. Please adopt the Law in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals I have said. Thank you for your attention. Vote for all six comments, for., in general as a new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the committee suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u175	We're taking all the notes completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u176	The committee proposes to enact legislation in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal. On the adoption of the Ukrainian Housing Fund Act in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3386-2. Please vote. [[13:36:29]] For 267 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Ukraine regions”. I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues. “Regions of Ukraine” – 53, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 26, National Party – 37, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPI – 0, National Block – 22, SDPU (o) – 18, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, “Rebirth” – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 10, “One Ukraine” – 10, non-fractional 11. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions -- the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the People's bloc -- they demand a 30-minute recess or a right to speak. Dmitry Rudkowski has the word. Dear colleagues, I apologize. We couldn't ask the question of overcoming the veto because the President's proposals were about taking them into account conceptually his proposals. The committee agreed with the President’s proposals. So we've got one thing left: we're going to take a new one. When the president of Ukraine demanded that the law be rejected, we voted first, regardless of the position of the rejection committee. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you personally. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the President. In this room on December 20, you and I, with great powers, voted on the state's budget. And you know, one of the points of this vote was that, as of January 1, this year, the law on children of war is gradual. And there was 100 million for free travel, and Ludmila Suprun announced that there were 500 million to bring a 25% discount for children to war on utilities and housing. After Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz spoke on the subject, 200 million were included, 700 million of them. The budget already signed by the President in article 51 provides for funding from subsidies transferred to local budgets, but 77 articles of the same budget have suspended the implementation of the Children of War Act on Public Services. I mean, it's either fraud or something. I'm asking you to give me an assignment, and yesterday you gave it to me, to conduct an official investigation. And so that the guilty will be punished. Secondly, given that it is not one day to investigate, but tomorrow is the last day of the session, I would ask you to include and consider the law, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 on the social protection of children of war. The project has been implemented and registered, No. 8683 since 11.01.2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u178	I'm asking the secretariat to prepare the information immediately, because we've voted on the funds, the allocations, 700 million if I'm not mistaken. And that must be the decision. I've been paying attention to signing the budget for this budget committee, our legal services. They assured us that everything happened according to the decisions voted by the Supreme Council. I'd like to get right on that, please, for the evening meeting. Yes, Your Honor, we need to put it into the agenda now and make a decision on a number of issues. The ones that were previously foretold and the ones we agreed on. So I'd like you to work quickly right now. A bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code for the adoption of children is submitted to the vote. Registration number 8680. Please vote, inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u179	Please reverse the vote. Please, Catherine Samuel. Dear National Deputies! You'll be out in a minute. Calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u180	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We can't, we don't really object to this law, but the point is, yesterday at only 12 o'clock he joined the committee for consideration, the committee, and it's not just mine that goes, Onopena, Samolik and four other committees. No committee, even the committee of Vasil Vasilovich, has considered the bill. I don't understand why it's so urgent. The problem is very serious. What's more, I think we're going to adopt this law. We're not just going to adopt this law, I think we're going to set up a commission to investigate how these children were adopted by foreigners of our children, who we're sorry to have been released in part. But in a hurry, when a bill comes in at 12:00, it's not for the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u181	Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Council had no objection to the matter. That's the first one. The other one. It is not the adoption of children, but it is the order in which children are adopted. Since a decision is made that the adoption of children is taken from the Ministry of Education and Science and is transmitted to the Ministry of Childhood, Motherhood, Sports, and so forth. Now a vacuum has been created, and no one is dealing with it at all. In large numbers, the Cabinet of Ministers would have to take the appropriate decision, but since the Cabinet of Ministers has not done so and is now completely blocked, the Supreme Council is tasking the Ministry with its decision to carry out these mandates and entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers with the creation of an appropriate government body that has done so. That's a technical question. Let's put it in the agenda, then we'll talk about what we're going to say. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the Adoption Centre for Children]] Registration number 8680. Please vote. [[13:43:54]] For 316 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, there's no problem, the committee's been looking at it, the Supreme Council's been supporting it. Now it's just about moving the term for a few months, just in this star. So, really, as Catherine Samuel says, we didn't get a chance to look at it on the committee yesterday. But I think the Supreme Council can make their own decisions appropriate and there will be no gross violation, not even a violation at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u183	So, shall we vote on this decision? Dear colleagues, well done paper, there's a technical issue in fact, but we've stalled this process completely. Yes, Musiak, please, microphone. Then Sergey Shevchuk, then Lila Grigorovich, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I just want to add to what Vasil Vasilovich said, which in this case is about moving the entry into force on May 1st of this year. We have been adopted in the law “from the day of publication”. Why was it moved to May 1st? Because this organ has not yet been formed. But I would like to point out that until this body is created, the counting of those who want to adopt children and children for adoption must continue with the adoption of children at the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, so as not to disrupt this moment. This is just how we keep the mechanism working until a special organ is created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u185	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk, then Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u186	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, we are really in the process of creating a new body in the new ministry, but the state has to look after the interests of children that can be adopted even in the process of establishing a new state bureaucrat structure. We can't stop this process. So the bill is quite timely and the faction of the Yulia Block simply asks us to consider it and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u187	Lillia Grigorovitch, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u188	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Well, your honor, indeed, from yesterday to today, the bill has not been able to be considered on the committees. For that, we arrived very brightly on January 10th without agreeing to anything on the Conciliation Council, making statements in the morning that the army was not being destroyed, sending the government to resign. So we have much to gain from what we should not, and unfortunately too much, we do not get to the point that we should. A child’s right to have a family should certainly not be violated. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in hastening wisely with the solution to this question we should consider, including, and in the proposed changes, that still the adoption center today is subordinated to the Ministry of the Family and Youth and that it should certainly continue to work in this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain once again that since this matter has been referred by law to the Ministry of Education and Science, the centre has not been created and has no right to pursue the relevant structure of the Ministry of Education and Science. So now we have to change the time to create this structure at the Ministry of Youth and Sport, Children and Tourism, and at this time we have to give the Ministry of Education the authority to do so. I think the fourth number, when we're so passionate about this law, could be considered, including on your committee. No warning to put it to a vote? I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Change the vote, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u190	Yuri Karmazin and Sergei Slabenko, we just thought, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we wanted to help you. The essence of this law is very simple, it's just two orders given to the government by May 1st, and now we're assuming that there's no emptiness in the adoption center of the Ministry of Education, and we're also giving the government a mandate by May 1st to create a government authority, given that we have a real government that we didn't resign because we didn't send it because the violated Constitution, violated 115th, 87th and a reference to 85th, paragraph 12 is not entirely valid. That's why we're going to write it right down here, and we're going to have to accept it, as Vladimir Mikhailovich said, and in the first and second readings, that's the first and the second. It says that in order to bring legislation into line with the Family Code, valid acts are applied in parts that do not conflict with this law. So we're showing the rule of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u191	Thank you for further clarification, Yuri Anatolyevich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code on the Centre for Adoption of Children, registration number 8680. Please vote. [[13:50:10]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 8497. [[on the provision of a cassational charge against the court]] Please vote. [[13:50:47]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Yeah, let's move on. Let's move on. Now we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice. [[on the establishment of the Supreme Civil Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Criminal Court of Ukraine]] Registration number 4588-1. Please, Kozlowski with a motive. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Law 8191 and a year and a half goes to the Supreme Council. The Santa farm workers are waiting for him, and we can't. We include everything every day and include new laws. And today he was put back in the last place so that he wouldn't pass. A year and a half after the Supreme Council. There are telegrams in your name, everything for me, and no one takes anything. I'm asking you very much, let's accept this law. People are waiting! They're waiting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice. [[on the establishment of the Supreme Civil Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Criminal Court of Ukraine]] Registration number 4588. Please vote. Please vote. Here comes the vote. Please vote. [[13:52:36]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, we're not creating a court, we're simply putting the matter to the vote. Who's to go back to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice? [[on the establishment of the Supreme Civil Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Criminal Court of Ukraine]] Registration number 4588-1. Please vote. [[13:53:16]] For 244 Decision taken. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please. It's just that we're back on board. I am now voting on the inclusion of registration number 4588-1 in the day-to-day draft of the Act. Please vote. [[13:53:46]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u194	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, the problem arose because of this and why it was necessary to amend the Law on the Court of Justice. [[on the creation of a Higher Civil Court and a Higher Criminal Court]] You know, a few years ago, in 2003, the Constitutional Court failed to create the Ukrainian Court of Cassation. Today, in the judicial system, such a situation is, for example, the decision of the general courts, the local courts, is brought before the Court of Appeal, and the Supreme Court is now considering civil and criminal cases as a matter of concern. And if more or less in the criminal court, there are 60,000 civil cases in the civil court today. It may take two, three, five years to consider a particular matter. In fact, the rights of citizens under the Constitution to appeal court rulings are not enforced. So it's about creating these two higher courts. But this issue, this problem is related to another one, to a bill for which we have not voted today to include the Supreme Council. 60 grand. Civil cases lie before the Supreme Court, corridors are collapsed, judges are not able to deal with them because there is an increasing number of cases in geometric progress all the time. That bill, which you did not support with regard to the amendments to the Court of Justice Act, was proposed as an exception to those cases that came before the Supreme Court, to be referred to the Court of Appeal, and that they should consider cases as a cassation so that people would not wait for years. That's what the last bill came up with. You didn't support him. For a year. During this time, however, the Supreme Court continues to act as a cassation agency. That's why we need to look at this in the context of a previous bill, you know? Why did we table two bills together? Sadly, the room apparently did not understand this situation. That is why I propose, in addition to voting on the basis of the amendment to the Court of Justice Act, to return to that bill that we have not included, 8497, and to allow the judicial system to work fully. There is no such problem in specialized courts, since there is a Supreme Administrative, Higher Economic Court, and there are still cases before the Supreme Court. The situation here has become extremely difficult, catastrophic! That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u195	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u196	So I would like to vote in the first reading for the creation of the Higher Civilian, the Higher Casualty. It's like a perspective at the end of the corridor as an alternative to solving this problem. But going back to that bill that we didn't support today, it's just not going to work in the judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u197	Yeah, questions, respectable colleagues. And let us continue our work until this issue is resolved. No warning? Questions. Please sign up for three minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gregory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u198	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vasil Vasilovich, I would like to address you, the head of the committee, to a man who has experience in these matters. Tell me, why doesn't your committee want to look at the situation at all? Why So Many Complaints? Why So Many Censorships? Why So Many Appeals? We need to ask about the quality of the job. We're going to the unsuspecting cost of the budget. We're from the fact that we have these lines of treatment for people, and we're not going to increase the cost of doctors, of public health care, and here we are, we're only going to create judges, judges, judges, courts, courts. We are moving on to what? So I'd like to make a suggestion that you should add articles to this bill on the quality of the judge's work so that there will be less cassation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u199	Gregory Mikhailovich, we've analyzed this situation. And they've done a lot. But the situation is objective. If two million cases were considered by the courts in 2000, six million cases were already last year. A huge number of cases have been raised and appeals have been made to the courts. Regarding what we have done, we have adopted, for example, the Civil Procedure Code, which provides that the case, which is dealt with by the local court, is not referred to the local court of appeal, and the Court of Appeal itself takes the decision. Only five percent of six million cases are brought before the court. But there are objective reasons. I told you they didn't take it, they didn't set up a court of cassation three years ago. And since there was no court of appeal, all of these cases went automatically to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And so for objective reasons, people just can't stand it, the judges themselves in the Supreme Court. And we suggest that, as a cassation, a year as an experiment of appeals courts, but from Winnitz, we send it to the Lviv Appeals, from Lviv to Winnicky, so that it doesn't go to the same court. And a year or a year later, create a higher criminal, higher civil courts, and the judicial system will work. You don't want to just listen to me. You say the court system doesn't work well. So I'm telling you, what's wrong with her? It will work badly if you do not support this bill and one that is no longer supported in this room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u200	Let's take a closer look at the questions. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you are well aware that a clot has now emerged in the judicial system. And the trombone was created, including through this hall and through the committee. CSoomu7 because for four years one of the 19 people was looking into cases. There are now 60,000 cases in the Supreme Court. Where is the head of the Supreme Court now? On the list, he's long gone, he's on the list. Where's the head of the Upper House? On the list. And in France, there are nine chambers of 7 people and there are 150 people working all over France to answer these questions. Therefore, a strategic error was made here. You don't have to. You have to analyze it. You are rightly asked whether quality has been asked, and this service is now called, not a solution to the judicial problem and judicial reform. When I suggested how to do this, you didn't want to create these things, you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u202	Yuri Anatoliyovich, unlike you, I'm looking for no reason for this situation, although I know better than you do, and I'm looking for a way out of this situation and I'm offering it to this room today. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u203	Please sit down, Vasil Vasilovich. Shall we discuss it? We will. Let's take nine minutes. Carmazine, please. After him, Carmazin, the microphone of Carmazin, then Melniczuk. Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come across a situation where it is completely out of control. In the Supreme Court, a huge number of cases are now, including the fact that you and I have been assigned to these judges for a living, even though this institution has not justified itself. Although we receive 1 out of every 3 letters today from Ukrainian citizens, we complain that the life - style of judges is not justifiable. We do not analyze the reasons without examining the reasons behind the consequences. Look what we just created. We've created a Supreme Administrative Court, 60 people. Plus a higher household – 90 people. Plus, we have almost a hundred Supreme Courts. Now we need to create at least 150 people for the Supreme Civil Court and at least 90 to 100 people for the High Criminal Court. Then let's see, where we have these calculations about creating, about making changes to the system. Are we ready to have 500 people in the state doing a cassation facility alone? Are we ready? What nation feeds such a number of people? Let's take a look at the level that we're proposing. I'm saying that we have to learn first, and the same experience of that very small country as France, which has 150 people throughout the country, who are looking at the subject of cassation. Let's look at the simplification of the process, and on other issues, how can we make it easier not to get caught up in those tons of cases, they're nowhere else to be kept, they're all thrown into the Supreme Court. So I think that putting things right now in order of the day and immediately asking questions about making decisions without discussion, without justification, including the financial justification of such serious things is unfortunately premature right now. And all of this is done at the end of the parliamentary powers of Ukraine. It seems strange that today, instead of solving these problems, they have rushed to the MPs. What, will there be more benefit here? We have, unfortunately, listened to such leaders of the judicial branch, and we have that law now that we have. That's when they blackmailed Kuchma, which would be Melnichenko's deputy. And we passed the law that led to this collapse. That's why it happened. So, dear friends, let's get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u205	Before the law, everyone is equal and everyone has the right, if he is in accordance with the law, to run into the MPs. It's a citizen's right. Do not deprive them of this right. Melniczuk Mikhailo, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u206	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, surely will support the faction. I wouldn't say it's so important, but it will support the adoption of this bill. But I would like to support Vasil Vasilovich and once again invite Adam Ivanovich to return to Bill 8497. The point is that more than 60,000 are now in the field of cassation. They're not being examined by the Supreme Court, they're being sent to the premises. And by adopting this law, we would certainly be able to consider these matters. Now that I have yet to set a time limit, I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy of Chernovetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u207	Chernewsky, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u208	Respectable people's deputies, Adam Ivanovich and those who listen to us. I want to draw attention to the following. Today, of course, the laws that Vasili Vasilevich has proposed are important, but most important today is to free our people from the nightmare that they are in when they are in the hands of the disorderly many judges. This is a very big problem and to start judicial reform, I believe it is necessary for us to make the first three years of judges in our seats elected as soon as we resolve this issue, then we will be confident that those who are trusted by both pensioners and workers will be brought to justice in the following courts, and many others. For what is happening today is my law to ensure that the funding of the local authorities of the judiciary is unfortunately not supported in Parliament. I think it's even more important than the ones we discussed today. The administration and bureaucracy builds, gives apartments, everything they do, no one can judge workers, no employees for hot water, no heat in the house, no garbage, nothing. They chose him, he's a bad guy, he does whatever he wants, it's a bureaucrat. And unfortunately, he finds support in many courts. Therefore, I believe that until we have resolved the issue of the election of judges, we should not, at all, take a fundamental approach to changing the judiciary. That's my opinion. And thanks to the distinguished socialist for giving Melniczuk the opportunity to speak out of this high hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u209	Solomatin Yuri, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u210	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleagues! We are with you witnesses of the separation of the authorities, the branches of the authorities and the legislative, executive and judicial branches. And now the capitalist courts are being built. Although someone may say that the court cannot be socialist or capitalistic, it must be governed only by law. But we have a typical capitalist legal base, and it serves as its captivator of capital and those three hundred million deputies who sit in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the next time in the capitalist blue-and-white or orange party, they will come back here. Therefore, we must understand one simple thing: that the judiciary will serve the people and act in the name of the people only when the authority belongs to the people themselves and in no way whatsoever. As long as there is capitalism in our country, as long as there is sales office and sales justice, there will never be a Ukrainian citizen, that little Ukrainian cannot see justice and justice as his ears. Therefore, I ask all of us, who are the people's electorates, as well as the radio listeners who listen to us, to understand one simple thing. Justice is possible only in the restoration of Soviet power and socialism in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u211	Out of motive, Darling, one minute. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u212	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u213	Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u214	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. I'm going to put a point of view in common with him. Ladies and gentlemen, consider what you're trying to create, the High Criminal Court, or the criminal court, you want to create. If you are even creating, you should say “Higher court in criminal matters”. That's the first one. The other one. Let's think about how do we reform the Supreme Court? We leave it entirely in the warehouse where it is, without reform, and we take it away. This is a rhetorical question, a question that we would have an answer to the vote, this structure, this entire cost, this is the basis. We had our conclusions now, Ms. Suprun, as the executive head of the budget committee. It's nothing, and we're offered. Change the composition of the higher courts in the 38th article. So what I'm asking you is, what is reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u215	Yes, Shevchuk Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u216	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to pass on the word of Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u217	Onopenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u218	Thank you. I would like to say that, of course, if we create these two higher courts, we will be reforming and intending to reform the Supreme Court of Ukraine, clearly giving it only the functions of excluding the implementation of cases. In addition, relevant bills have already been prepared for the Civil Procedure Code, the Administrative Procedural Code and others for the establishment of appropriate filters, so that not every case will automatically fall into the Supreme Court and load it, but only accept it for consideration where the rules of material and procedural law have been violated, as has been said in many other countries. That's why we're looking at this issue in the complex. But we have to move one step at a time. Let's not take a step now. There won't be another. So you have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m0.u219	Yes, let's be clear, dear colleagues. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Amendments to the article, on the Ukrainian judiciary on the creation of Ukraine's Supreme Civil Court and the Supreme Criminal Court. There's a vote coming. [[14:14:25]] For 176 Maybe for rereading? Who's in charge of re-reading, please make up your mind. [[14:14:48]] For-170. Unfortunately, the decision is not supported. Declined. Yes, dear colleagues, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Break till 4:00.
