ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:00:42]] 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today, let's welcome our colleagues on their birthdays. The Jubilee is celebrated by Catherine Borisovna Levchenko, Alexei Volodmyrovich Ljaluk, and Arnold Anatoliyovich Radovets on their birthdays today. We warmly welcome them and wish them success in the field of lawmaking. Another announcement, please. Listen. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People’s Republic of Kulczynska Mikolia Georgiyovitch into the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine”. [[Applause]] So let's move on to the daily routine. A sleepless microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u2	Thank you. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Adam Ivanovich, I have found with great surprise that in the daytime I have found such a totally unclear item in the previous report of the interim commission of inquiry on the question of verifying the abuse of one of the newspapers of the Other Police. Since the preliminary reports of the interim commission of inquiry are not foreseen by the Rules, I express my surprise at where it came from, and I ask you, since you are the Chief, to exclude this issue from the agenda. I understand that there is a serious intention to give moral support and turn this into a support action by Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka, because I am just convinced that his rating will increase seriously as a result of this consideration, but this can be done in a different way and will not prevent the Ministry of Interior and the Minister from performing their duties. So remove this illegal item, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u3	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. I am also deeply surprised by what you have said, for unlike many of our fellow workers, you are constantly taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. And that's why I don't believe that you were present when we took the Supreme Council's decision on the establishment of this commission, and in this decision, the Supreme Council decided in December, in November, to listen to the previous report of the commission, and in December to hear the final report of the commission. So once again, this is the decision of the Supreme Council, taken by decree when we created this commission. So let's get to the point. Draft Decision amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. Registration number 1159-10. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Kovalevska Yulia Sergijivna for the renewal of the review at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of the draft Supreme Council decision, registration number 1159-10, from 5 September 2006 concerning the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kovalevska as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, by exempting a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the duties of State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. At its meeting on September 13, this year, the committee considered the draft decree. During the consideration of this issue, the estimated quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs at the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster was not used, as the Committee informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The review of this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was postponed in response to the request of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Kovalevski. The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of September 14, 2006, at number 130, was elected to the designated Committee of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine. Considering that the estimated quota for the Party of the Regions on committees of up to 20 persons on 28 November this year is 7.2, and that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster is based on this faction of 7 national deputies, i.e. the quota used. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support the draft decision. But the national deputy Kovalevska insists on considering the draft decree. The Supreme Council's request is to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u5	Yes, thank you. Are there any questions? No questions asked. I'm interested, I'll ask you a question. We're with you. Dear colleagues, calm down! When we made similar decisions, we agreed that if any of the national deputies wanted to move to another committee, the faction that supported such a proposal should immediately make a proposal to replace the member from its faction. Is there such an offer from the faction of “Regions” that instead of Kovalevsky's in the Committee on State Buildings, he would propose another deputy? Please, Kiselev, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u6	There is no such faction on the committee today, but today at the Conciliation Council, Vasil Alexiyovich is reporting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u7	Please, Acid Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Party of regions, Kiselov. I ask you to take into account what the faction of the Party of the Regions is asking today, considering that we are not ready to apply for a replacement, this vote is not to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u9	I see. So we're going to make this procedural decision, protocol: we're going to assign the Rules Committee one more time to study this issue and then report it. Is there no objection? A draft Order on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Urban Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security is under consideration. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u10	The committee at its meeting on 29 November considered the submission of the head of the Socialist Party's Socialist Party, Tsushka Vasil Petrovic, on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Igor Anatoliyevich, as the first representative of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Taking into account the requirements of part seven of the seventh article of Ukraine's "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" and part seven of article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the Committee decided to support the submission of the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine's Socialist Party Tsushka on the election of Ukraine's national deputy to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, and to submit an appropriate draft regulation for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u11	Are there any questions? None. Is it? Onichuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction today discussed this issue at the meeting of the “Our Ukraine” faction and decided, as we actually agreed at the meeting of the Conciliation Council, that all the transitions, including the appointment of relevant officials on the committees, would be supported if they were carried out within quotas. At the same time, we are paying attention to both you and the committee heads, who remain unsigned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect the national deputy Sklar as a member of the committee, Vladimir Borisovich, as a member of the committee on justice. We would like this consensus, which has been reached in terms of personnel transitions and assignments to the same extent, to be applied to a well-known situation, because we voted on the same principles as the representative of the Party of the Regions and the representative of our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u13	The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security was the Ukrainian National Deputy Dercchi Andri Leonidovich, a member of the MP of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, who suspended his parliamentary powers for the second year of November this year. So the substitution is given by the same party, by quota.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u14	Yes, dear colleagues, we have clarified and I thank you for your support, it will be absolutely correct when, indeed, what colleague Onischuk said we will support where this relates to the quotas of factions, and here is the quota for the faction of socialists. As for Sklar, please get rid of this quota, maybe factions, but it's not a management quota, as far as I can tell. Let the profile committee handle it. I put to the vote a draft decree, decree number 2622 on the election of the Ukrainian People's Deputy as Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the fuel and energy complex and nuclear security. Please vote. [[10:11:47]] For 349 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future is under consideration. Registration number 2411. Reported by national deputy Longy Stanislaw Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In view of the fact that at the last moment the question of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future, the project introduced on 14.11.2006 has undergone some changes in the position and position of this commission, I ask Adam Ivanovich to postpone the consideration of this issue from today’s session.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u16	Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, we will not bear, we must decide. We've already had that question, sorry, we've been wearing it in our teeth for about six months. Either we support or we don't support. We're going to move again, we're going to waste time again. Let's make a final decision, that's all. In the past, there was such a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the question was introduced on 14.11.2006. That's why it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u18	Yeah, well, who's in charge of moving? Wait, please. [[10:13:53]] For-95 Please, do you intend to report or are you ready to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u19	I can answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u20	Okay. Please sign up for questions. I repeat, 95. Did you sign up? Oh, sorry, sorry, okay, okay. Got it. Yes, please, three minutes. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u21	Out of the way, if you please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. We'd still like to listen to the reporter's proposal. There is no doubt that the commission for the future is beyond any political preferences. She worked successfully in the parliament of the last assembly. Its composition included, apart from its own national MPs, famous scientists, professionals who were involved in this emphasis, the problems of scientific and scientific innovation, above all, the humanitarian development of our country and the prospects. Such prognosis studies seem to be absolutely necessary and from the point of view of involvement in this subject of society as a whole. So we would like to go back to the vote, including our colleagues from the faction of the Regions, the Communist faction, the Socialists, more carefully and more tolerantly, I would like to stress this, the question of participation in this commission and the work of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u22	That's not a question. Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u23	Please give the floor to Sassa Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u24	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u25	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter, I wanted to find out for myself the question of the next order. According to part two of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council establishes special committees for the preparation and prior consideration of specific issues. You're proposing to create a committee commission. And is the Constitution fully suited to such an approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u26	I would like to point out that this issue has been addressed in the Supreme Council of the past call and the premeditation of the creation of a commission was a decision that was set up at a meeting at the initiative of the parliaments of countries, including UNESCO and in most countries either the committees or the relevant structures in parliaments that are considering the future, the question of the projected indicators of economic development and so on. And it will be very sad if there is no such unit in our country. We created this issue on the right of a temporary commission last year, made contact with the respective commissions of Finland, Britain, many other countries. I must also say that all factions included, including factions of the Party of Regions, Our Ukraine, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Socialist Party and so on. And in the process of discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u27	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, the initiative understands our colleague, we have to look into it. But given the direction of the commission's organization of work, the first thing that this commission called a special temporary commission for the future is that there is no future in Ukraine. Because temporary special commissions are created to investigate a particular fact. I can support, yes, indeed, the theft of 15 years of genocide, the destruction of the Ukrainian people must be investigated, but, I think, for this we should create, well, a special and very broad list of issues of the commission's consideration. And this commission, which has to make laws, draft laws, and not just talk about some direction in the future, well, I think it's unnecessary to create, and that's when we put Ukraine's authority at risk, because there's no future in Ukraine at the conclusion of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u29	The parliaments of thirty countries have created and believe that this is necessary. Regrettably, Ukraine feels that it does not have a future. I disagree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u30	Yes, thank you, Stanislav Alexiyovich, sit down, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Science and Education Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Is there a Tachenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education has considered a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future and recommends that the Supreme Council take this decision. The draft resolution is designed to create legal and organizational principles for the forward-looking direction of scientific and technological innovation and to form, on the basis of the principles of the internal policy of the State. Among the Commission's directions, as defined by the decision, are questions that are relevant to the Committee's knowledge, the question of the formulation of forecasts and the development of priorities for the scientific and technological and innovative development of the State. In this regard, the commission should be actively involved with the committee. By the way, in the past, as has been said, such a commission was created by the Committee on Science and Education and chaired by its deputy head of the committee that was responsible for the issue of science itself. New scientific developments and technologies have created new industries that are practically changing the world — electronics, biotechnology, information technology, and technology in medicine, and so on. In addition, living conditions and the effects of technological processes on human and social life are changing. It is important to track these processes and predict the possible consequences and breakthroughs in time, and the work of the commission proposed to create should be directed. In fact, it is a challenge of time that needs to be changed. In most countries of the world, as mentioned earlier, such committees have been created. The decision came to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Legal Authority. In conclusion, the need to include in the decision a paragraph on the duration of the commission is stressed in accordance with article 80 of the Rules. This could be accepted, but the same article states that the term of office of the Temporary Special Commission may not exceed one year. On the other hand, in article 81, it is pointed out that after discussing the report on the results of the work of the commission, the Supreme Council decides to stop the work of the commission, or entrusts it with continuing work and setting the deadline for its work. The decree states that the report of the commission will be six months from now. This is the report that will allow us to determine the duration of the commission. The adoption of a decision does not require funding from the state budget of Ukraine, so I propose to support the committee's decision and recommend that a decision be taken taking into account the proposals and comments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u32	Thank you. Will there be questions? Sign up. Three minutes, Terjehohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u33	Dear reporter, well, you seem to be a fatalist after all. How can this be done by a temporary commission on the future? Well, the future is such a category, you know, not very temporary. So if you're going to create something like this, you have to do it as a committee, change the structure of the Supreme Council, and increase the attachment. So don't you think it's really here, you know, some kind of manipulation in this, in this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. You may have misinterpreted the previous reporter and honorary MP, Sasa. This question has just been discussed. So I'm not going to do the same thing again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u35	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u36	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear reporter, please tell me, what is the real challenge of creating this commission, given that there is a whole range of institutions in the state, including the Institute of Strategic Research, a number of state institutions that are called upon to address this issue? But nevertheless, are we trying to create such a commission? I understand that this committee has been formed in the past by one of the national deputies. But since the Ukrainian National Institute of So-called Memory was created under it today, and this is a question that has been resolved today to create a platform for the Yukhnovsky and Asalde-Losinsky, what this is called. creating this commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u37	So if you get out of this, you can say that in thirty countries of the world, they want to hire someone. If you think that everyone is only doing employment, not predicting the future, then you may not vote, and yet all of these countries do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u38	Well, all countries are a little over 30. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u39	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Vladimirović, I also want to ask a similar question. Indeed, the status of temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council is quite certain: this is what is in the field of lawmaking. If the Supreme Council is in charge of monitoring and legislation and it needs to be fully addressed, as at the moment, as we are in the gas sector, in terms of the value of gas contracts. That's understandable. And to study the future, to develop serious ones if we believe that there should be serious programmes, are serious scientific developments. And we're setting a deadline here for six months, a year. But this is really a good idea: developing a perspective for Ukraine. Let's say we discuss in the Supreme Council Hall how we see this future, how we see the future, how we need to realize this future, how we need to go to it. That's another question. But here is the Special Commission of the Supreme Council, when there are indeed State scientific institutions. I think you're looking for a good idea and that's why, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. But I have the impression that the honourable MPs today were not paying attention to the first reporter. And when the third question is asked the same question, sorry, you can't spend that kind of time. I'm not answering, I'm answering the previous reporter. Yes, it was about the status of the commission that Deputy Sas asked questions. Then listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u41	Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, you should rejoice that such questions are often asked, so they want to clarify what you are going through. They're asking, answer me. Okay, thanks. Have a seat. This is the fate of the reporter to answer questions. Where are you going? Shall we discuss it? Sign up for the factions, please. Is that where we end up, or does anyone else want to? Nobody insists anymore. No, they don't. Then you'd better write it down from the deputies, please. Let's take 15 minutes, everybody who signed up. Mikola Tomenko, please. We need to get ready. Microphone from the spot. Who? What about Yavorowski? Please pass it on to Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Perhaps both those who listen to us and those who are in the room have learned that this question has caused, I would say, some detonation and absolute variation. As for the past few days ago, we were determined by famine, and now the future of the Ukrainian people remains to be determined. Of course, each nation must have some strategy of its view of the future, tomorrow. Regrettably, Ukraine does not have much. I didn't mean to offend anyone, but there was a semi-self-employed group of MPs in the previous call that did something there without doing anything, and today we're going back to that question. If you look at it from a governmental point of view, of course it's very important. But I have the impression that we've chosen not scientists, not strategists, not people who have certain methods of research for the future, ways, approaches to it, possible dangers, possible challenges in this future, but we've formed a group of deputies, and I have the impression that they should draft a bill of about two or three sentences. There's got to be one thesis: the future of the Ukrainian people is beautiful and they accept it as a bill. And all questions will be resolved immediately. And put a dot. I say again, I honor all the national MPs regardless of their belongings, age and age. But look, in my memory in Parliament there were only two official legal people who were involved in the future strategy: this is the late academic of Pavlovsky, who devoted his life to this and left behind some fundamental work. [[His kingdom of heaven]] And the second person in Parliament today is Oleg Belarus. Instead, I see here, I say again, I won't call anyone's last name, I don't have any pretenses, but I'm absolutely not sure that these people are going to deal fundamentally with these problems. As a result, I conclude, our position, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, is very clear: we need to pursue a strategy for the future. Plan it. Predict him. This should be done by both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian deputies, but this should be done primarily by professionals. That's why we accept the idea. Personality should be thought through and clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u43	Please, Nadosha. Viennese? Joseph of Viennese, please. Behind him, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is now under consideration is extremely important for Ukraine, which has been searching for a national idea for 15 years, which cannot be determined in geopolitical terms, which one day goes to Europe, the other day goes to Asia. And that's an extremely important question. But it seems to me that the authors of this project have approached this committee mechanically. So it's suggested that the commission should have representatives of different factions. Excuse me, can we approach such a responsible committee? Is there a need for a proportional principle from factions? Here among the 450 deputies, we need to identify those people who, at least one day in their lives, have been professionally involved in this problem. Because it's an extremely narrow, specific field of human knowledge that requires absolutely, you know, such a fundamental, geopolitical, scientific approach. I absolutely share what Yavorowski said, that at least I know a person whose books I've read and not one book on this issue, which is a national MP, is Belarus Oleg Grigorovitch. It would be logical for him to lead this commission. Because it is a person who has written several volumes of books leading an appropriate institution in our country, which has international status, which has international connections. If we're taking this issue seriously, I would certainly have made an offer to lead this committee, certainly Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, as a person who's dedicated his life -- and he's lived a lot of years -- this problem. I'd like the Ukrainian national MPs to step a little bit away from some political, as you know, their preferences today, and we'd like to approach. It's really a nation's development strategy. Not for yourself. It's not for us that this commission has to work. Not even for our children, but perhaps for our grandchildren, it should work. And so the approach should be very thorough and very, you know, responsible. So I'd like to take a closer look at the composition of this committee and its tasks, and if we have to do it as a committee to not break the Constitution, let's do it again, but let's do it so that it doesn't, you know, not to be a form of really employing 1 or 2 people, anywhere. I'd like to ask someone to raise their status. This is wrong because the question is extremely important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u45	Hello, Mother, please. After him, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u46	Mother, our Ukraine faction, a party of industrialists, entrepreneurs. Dear friends of mine! I'm just surprised that the first time in this room was the development of Ukraine. Not that we're going west or east. We thought we had our own country and might have a program in this country. And a program that will bring her to those boundaries so that she can live a normal life. This is where Teryohin said or did not speak of manicism -- talking about it, talking about this program. I want to say, if you'll excuse me, Seryozha, that this is about thinking about raising the social level only at the expense of the Supreme Council, what we're going to write in the law, not at the expense of raising productivity. You see what's happening right now: we're all energy-dependent. What are we doing in Ukraine? Someone knows that 30 percent of the generating power station is going to just lose it, this energy, we don't know how to use it? Do Ukrainian scientists know how to do this? They know. There are dozens of ways we can go today. Even a simple question like biofuels in today's crisis. All countries have already taken this matter seriously -- we are discussing these things. There are many issues that need to be resolved, we need to be given science, we need to be able to help Ukraine by its power to ensure that no one is helping, or maybe we can help someone. Then we'll need all the blocks. And today, when we think someone's gonna help, it's stupid to be strong on your own! And I ask you to support the decision on this commission, and I think it will be one of the great achievements of our commission if this committee works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u47	Simonenko Peter, please. Follow him, Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, no one is asking today what we do not need to think about in the Supreme Council about the future of Ukraine, how to develop, improve and focus. Therefore, the question is not today, in my view, but the question is how precisely we are going to assess today the state of society and the main problems, so that when we think about the future, it is the right time to define a social development strategy. That's what I'm from. Well, first of all, the United Nations has recognized that Ukraine is a dying people. There is an official decision on this matter. Indeed, the facts show that genocide against the Ukrainian people is in fact being carried out over the years of independence. The Ukrainian people are deliberately driven out of their original territory and 5-7 million are talking outside Ukraine in search of a piece of bread, and we are dying. More than 11 million Ukrainian citizens have died in the years of independence and the population has decreased by 5 million. The demographic situation of the threatening, technological catastrophes on the threshold is not clear on strategic development issues. Is this the first time we've asked this question or not? No, not for the first time, and the faction of communists since 93 and 94th has warned the entire Parliament and people of Ukraine in this room that the strategy for reforming Ukrainian society has been damaged, chosen and chosen wrongly and the main issues are not strategically wrong. Thus, this is the approach that is proposed today. I don't mean to offend anyone, respectable colleagues, but he's pulling some kind of furry approach. It is obvious that both the President and the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers are temporary executors of their people for a specific time, under a specific programme of promises in the elections. We really need to create a government body today. And that would be right, a public body that would unite the interests of science and practitioners, the interests associated with how the world community was developing and what could be used for Ukraine. Therefore, in this situation, I would like to propose once again: today, to reflect on what we need to look closely at the functional distribution of responsibilities within the Cabinet of Ministers and the establishment of a public body that will ensure the planning of social development. Here again, I want to return to what has been rejected on many occasions by representatives of the right nationalist forces. And the practice of the world shows that Ukraine does not plan its development and thus kills the future. Developed States, Japan has experienced the Soviet Union and for 20 years the development of society determines, five-year-olds establish development and in Ukraine have rejected their experience. Well, actually, they forgot about Shevchenko, who always taught people to learn, but don't give up on them. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I propose today, following this discussion, that we do not take a decision, with the instruction of Kabmin to speak about the establishment of a public planning body.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u49	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I wasn't planning on going to the rostrum, so I'm just going to say a few words. Well, after the previous speaker's report, we can say that we need to create a commission of the "light" of the future. Then it will become clear to all why it is being created. I would like to remind you that there is a project within the United Nations called Millennium, which addresses the challenges of the future, including ecology, clean drinking water, demographics, gender policies and so on, education and so on. I don't understand, what's the competence of what we're going to create? Are not all other permanent committees of the Supreme Council concerned about the future, or are they concerned only with the past? What is the status of this Temporary Commission? Again, and this is Ostap Bender, the interim commission from the future? Well, then let's make the interim commission of the past. Or all the time, absolutely. And finally, what I'd like to say is that there's an authority in the Cabinet of Ministers that's looking after the economic future, so let's say the Ministry of Economics. There is, let's say, a problem. You know, whatever it is, there's this "Murphy law" -- it's always about money. And this committee last time called, do you know what she was doing? I remind you, just by producing drafts that included a variety of industry benefits. Now, Mr. Mike's gone out and actually confirmed what the commission was doing. So without knowing her competence without creating her constantly, there is no need to speak about the seriousness of the intentions of the deputies. I don't think we can support this project in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u51	Yes, thank you. The discussion is over. I'm the only one. I'm sorry, there's no such thing as motive. There is no “out of motive ” in the Rules. Good for you. I know there's just no motive for that. I want to address the head of the Regulatory Committee. Have you considered this question, Ephraim? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Has the Regulatory Committee considered the establishment of this Commission for the Future?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u52	The Committee considered the matter at its meeting and, taking into account the regulatory rules, decided not to support the establishment of the Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm re-emerging on what we've already talked about. And I'm addressing all the committee heads and, above all, the chairman of the Rules Committee. The Committee on Rules should be the main rapporteur for the creation of any commission. Not the Committee on Science, not the Committee on Ecology, Economics, etc. They may be co-reporters, and the rapporteur should be the committee that determines whether the proposed composition of the commission complies with the Rules. Because we're completely disturbed by the commissioning, by the creation of commissions, by the total violation of the Rules, and in this case, by the creation of commissions. Because I see here the names of the deputies who are already on the board. Well, it's for the future. I am voting on the decision to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future. Registration number 2411. [[10:43:00]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The factions. Districts 0, Timoshenko July 13, "Our Ukraine" 63, Socialists 6, Communists 0, non-fractional 0. A draft decree on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT Krivorizstal, registration number 2026, is under consideration. But here we have a colossal. The drafter of the bill is National Deputy Timoshenko and wants to report to the Turks. He's a co-author, I'm sorry. I am not interested in the letter, and I am interested in what the subject of the legislative initiative reports. In this case, the subject of the legislative initiative is Timoshenko, not Turkinov. There's a conflict, I'm sorry. Oh, brothers and sisters, I understand. The head of the Supreme Council can't change the Rules, I'm sorry. Well, let's not do that for the future. Let the Turk report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I don't see a colossal here at all, because there is a letter from Julia Volodymyrna, who has entrusted me with a report and it has been agreed upon with the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u55	The letter doesn't. Alexander Valentinovich. Turn off the microphone. Alexander Valentinovich, I repeat, the letter may be to the Lord God, but the changes to the Rules of Procedure are only accepted by the Supreme Council. Who, in order to allow the author of Timoshenko's legislative initiative to speak up to Turkov, please vote. [[10:44:57]] For-160. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the order of expulsion. We're not doing this anymore. The thing is. Who's to come back? Let's support it. Who's in charge of coming back? [[10:45:32]] For 368 We're back. Who is in favour of giving the opportunity, after making an ad-hoc, to make a statement to the Turk with a report, please vote. [[10:45:55]] For 370. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u56	Thank you for your support, because it's really a social resonance issue. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the fact that you are certainly aware of. In 2005, the efforts of the government of Timoshenko were returned to state ownership as illegally privatized a large one, I believe, a problem created by the Kuchma regime, namely the “Crioristal” combination. And it was this one that was sold at a low price. And after the “Cruvoristal” combination was restored to state ownership, a transparent auction was organized, perhaps for the first time in Ukraine, allowing about 25 billion dollars to be included in the budget. This is a colossal amount, and this amount was planned for use with maximum efficiency for the economy of Ukraine and thus for the whole of society. At the same time, along with the budget plans, the Supreme Council has provided and supported the special use of these funds, including to address the environmental disaster that occurred in Krivbas, to address the social and economic issues of the Dnipropetrov region. I mean, the honourable colleagues who were once in Kriebasa, who were in Bloody Rose, who worked there know how serious environmental problems are. So money had to be converted into local budgets to solve these problems. Next. It was planned to transfer parts of the resources made available to the Pension Fund, as well as a large portion planned to be transferred to the fraudulent depositors of savings. As you can see, these are very serious resonance social programs. And today, of course, we're wondering why we don't know that this money came in the direction of their use, why this money didn't come to the Pension Fund, to the savings investors, why the people of Krivbas didn't see this money. These are serious questions that should be answered by the investigating commission that our faction proposes to create. Especially with regard to the commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, I must say that indeed, there have been observations, reasonable comments by the regulatory committee and all these remarks have been corrected. In the draft decree, which was replaced. The proposals of all factions regarding membership of the commission are taken into account, and it is clearly stated who is the chairman of the commission and who is the deputy chairman of the commission. That is, all the proposals and requirements of the Supreme Council Rules are fully respected. The only problem that arose just before the opening of this report was that we had a discussion with “Our Ukraine” who asked to replace the member of the Yehanurov commission with the national deputy Davimuku. I don't think there's any problem here. And I would also like to support this proposal when the decision is voted on in general. I hope that our national deputies who will join this commission of inquiry will answer the questions that are of interest to our voters. Where did the billions go, I ask you, billions of budget funds? Billions received by the State from the returned object And it is I who ask that we, in the conclusion of this commission, make a separate decision, your honorary colleagues. In order to make it clear, firstly, that the state controls the use of its funds, secondly, to confirm that privatization, which should be in our country, and, by the way, I'm going back to the question that was discussed yesterday. About 600 objects were planned to be privatized yesterday. And in the first reading, you know, the anti-crisis coalition voted the law. However, since the privatization of these objects, it is planned to receive about ten billion, that is, two and a half less than one “Cruvoristal” object. And that is why I hope that, according to the decisions made by this commission, the Supreme Council will make an objective decision, including the discovery of criminal cases involving those officials who, in abuse of their office, have overturned the people’s hope of obtaining funds, serious, large funds from privatizing this facility. Thank you for your attention. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u57	Are there any questions? Alexander Valentinovich may have some questions. Please sign in. Yes, five minutes, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I have a question for you. Of course, at every turn, we are met by voters, and because this huge sum has been advertised and fuelled the optimism of the Ukrainian people that something will fall there, and it will fall there, and it will fall there, and that's where it will go. And people were really waiting, and that's really what we're hearing today, and none of us have a specific answer. I wrote a few questions to the government and received no specific answer. I have a question like that. You've headed the Security Service, you have some information, please tell me, did any money come to the Pension Fund from that income, which the second time Ukraine did get such a huge amount of $24 billion, pensioners, that it wouldn't be a penny of any kind, would it? If you know, confess.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that I presided over the Service until August 8, last year, and during my presidency, an object called “Cruvoristal” was returned to the State, but the auction was held after the resignation of the government of Timoshenko and after I resigned. So I hope the answer to that question will be given by the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u60	Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u61	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. But the very fact that we are sharing today the money that has earned on the pride of the national industry on the Crimsons. The plant, built by tens of millions of people from the former Soviet Union, who were proud of the entire country around the world, today we share the remains of what was left and try to check where that money went. I'm sure this commission won't find anything but one that they went to pick up their pockets. So I have the question, "How long are you going to check?" This was in the context of the work of the Government of Echanurov. Do you want to check this period or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u62	First. I want to answer to the honourable Mr. Kravchenk that no one is offering to distribute anything here. And the commission is created not to allocate resources from privatization, but to test their use. And not for some period of time, but for a period of time, from getting to disappearing. And these are the questions: where the money went, where the money went, and what the investigating committee should answer is not mine, but the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u63	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u64	It has long been known that no good work remains unpunished. That's why I have these questions. For Kuchma, it was sold for 4 billion, and for Yushchenka it was for 24 billion. Don't you think it's necessary to create an investigative commission or in the general investigation order to figure out who tried to sell the "Cruvoristal" combination to the power-benders, let's put it that way. And who stole 20 billion from the Ukrainian people? And the second question. The money from the sale of “Cruvoristals”, as is well known, came to the state budget of Ukraine in its general part. Which then interferes with the general control of the budget, wherever it comes from, to check and use in this part of the budget. Because, as far as I know, the state budget's money isn't shared by sources of revenue that it's tax from Turkinov, it's taxes from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! As for those who illegally privatized this object. I can tell you that when a decision was made and a decision was made to call it off, I would even say the crime of "acquisition," yes, perhaps, rather, an object called "Criminal," both in the Security Service and in other power structures had all the materials about those who organized the process. Of course, it was organized at the highest level without the participation of the then President, then the Prime Minister, could not have happened. Another question is that today the power structures that have all of this. The information, somehow, is not investigating this issue. But I think it's important to ask Mr. Lucenko, Mr. Drizzany, etc. As far as another problem is concerned. We can look at this: using budget funds in general. I can tell you that a separate decision has been made on KMK. In connection with the huge amount of money, a separate decision was made by Parliament regarding the use of these funds. And according to this decision, these costs will have to be used. Sadly, this did not happen and why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u66	Let me get this straight. It wasn't just a decision, Alexander Valentinovich, we passed the law -- changes to the state budget. And by law, changes in the state budget have sent some sums for some tasks. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Special Supervisory Commission for Privatization, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u67	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, present! On October 3, 2006, the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation reviewed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal”, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Julius Volodymyrna. On October 24, 2005, there was a re-competition in the sale of the VAT package “Crioristal”, the size of 93.2 per cent of the statutory fund. Then, for the first time in the history of domestic privatization, this competition took place in open and auction conditions. The result of such transparent privatization exceeded all expectations. The winner paid $24.2 billion for the shares. That's right. After the calculation of previous purchases, the State budget accounted for 20 billion. That's right. As a result, the privatisation plan was revised. Overdue payments were proposed by the Supreme Council to raise funds to help investors recover their savings, as well as to deal with the environmental and social economic problems of the city of Krivy Rig, which had already been reported by the previous reporter. I would like to remind you that nine bills have been tabled by the People's Deputies on this issue. Ukraine's Act No.3469 of 23 February 2006 amending the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 provided for three working days from the date of its recruitment to grant a subsidy to address the urgent problems of the budget of the city of Krivi Rig totalling 139.6 million dollars and the district budget of the Dnipropetrov region 59.8 million dollars for proceeds from the sale of “Criminal”. However, according to the Court of Auditors, in the first half of 2006, the requirements of the law were not fully met. Although this law was passed on March 15, 2006, the Ministry of Finance planned a subsidy of only 70.9 million dollars in March/June. Including the city budget of Krivi Rig, 55 million dollars, and the district budget of the Dnipropetrov region, 24 million dollars. At the beginning of 2006, a deficit in the State Budget general fund was financed by the remaining funds from the sale of Krivoriztali. No information is available on the direction of use of the rest of the funds at this time. In considering the draft decision, the members of the commission concluded that the matter that was planned to be investigated by the interim commission of inquiry was indeed of social interest. Therefore, the Special Supervisory Commission decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT “Cruvoristal”. I therefore propose to support this bill. That's the determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u68	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, three minutes, Bogchuk Vasil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u69	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Tell me, please, we've seen it. had the ability to monitor as transparent, and the privatisation of the “Criminals” was openly taking place. And I'd like to see it that way, clearly, how money is used. But by setting up a commission, we're swapping here, we're replacing the House of Accounts, which is responsible, and we need to be informed about the use of these funds, because it was distributed by the law that the Supreme Council passed. We're replacing the law enforcement agencies here, which should also track the purposeless use of these funds, if they were. And so on. Perhaps we will listen to these very bodies: the Court of Auditors, the law enforcement agencies, and there will be no need to take over the authority of these organs and distract the deputies from the core work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u70	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. I would like to say that there is another question: why is a temporary commission of inquiry being created on this matter, and the Special Supervisory Board of the Supreme Council itself is unable to deal with and investigate this issue? I want to say that unfortunately, this question is outside the competence of the Special Monitoring Commission, because in accordance with the Constitution, article 98, you know that this is the mandate of the Court of Auditors. That's why it's made. The Court of Auditors has already performed its function, has carried out its audit and concluded its report to the Supreme Council, including the Special Control Board. We considered these conclusions on the committee and decided to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u71	Andrew Schlee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear reporter, I just think that the creation of this commission is necessary at least so that they don't actually talk about it, so it's not hidden in the stacks of papers, because, in fact, it's a problem. When we talk about honest privatization, we also need to make honest use of funds from honest privatization. That's all. I'm just curious about the question: under the circumstances or the reality of getting information from today's government, because I'd like to think that, in principle, the commission would allow it? And the next. Under the circumstances of today’s interim commission of inquiry, which will be formed, it will be able to answer questions that for a long time have not been answered by competent authorities who would, in principle, control the matter, such as the Court of Auditors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u73	Thank you, Andry Vasilovich, for asking. I want to say that both the Supreme Council and the Special Supervisory Commission, and I think, and the government are also interested in this issue being dealt with in a fairly transparent and clear manner, which should have been done by law. So I don't think we have any today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u74	Thank you, sit down, please. Are they willing to express themselves? It's from factions, isn't it? Please sign up. Five people enrolled, 15 minutes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u75	The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I think so, actually. Voting for the establishment of this temporary parliamentary commission of inquiry will test whether the Supreme Council is capable of issues that are indeed resonating in society, because when we talk about privatization processes, they are always made up of two parts. Part one is honest, literate privatization, or unfair illiteracy, and the next stage is the use of funds that have been received from honest, literary, transparent privatization. There must also be a transparent, literate, and honest demonstration of where the funds went. The debate in society was, and the resonance was what triggered it. At which point, I think, as well as what happened in the privatization process, it caused a resonance, as well as how it happened. Because first, let's remember the history of the process, first the enterprise was privatized for 4 billion dollars, and then it was privatized for 24 billion dollars. In fact, 20 billion dollars was added to the government. And the natural question is, where did the funds that were sure come from, you know, a test to see if Ukraine was capable of privatizing it, doing it honestly, not pumping it through your pockets, or helping to make things work for the whole society? for let's not forget that when we talk, for example, about the “Criminal”, that this acquisition is indeed not just a separate region, not just a separate part of Ukraine, but the whole state and every citizen living in it, because each of them has more or less joined in building this enterprise. And it would have made a profit to each of us on the same side. And especially when we're talking about socially vulnerable levels of society. So I'd like to know where the money finally went? And are those who claim that these funds were not used purposefully? Does anyone speculate? Has everything really been done clearly and qualitatively? So I would like us in this commission of inquiry to answer the question, does privatization really make that profit in the State budget that we're counting on? If so, why and what is the problem, and who is to blame? So I am confident that anyone who does not vote in favour of the establishment of this MP's interim commission of inquiry will thus express themselves directly or indirectly in favour of unfair privatization for not controlling the use of the funds that come from privatization. And anyone who would vote in that way would simply answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u76	Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction will vote for the establishment of this special commission. And why are we voting? It's not just where the money was going. Not only did they steal the money but they stole the future from Ukraine. And because of this attempt today to create a commission, in my view, there is not only a desire to put order in the country but to hide its crimes, but to hide the crime of surrendering national interests. First. Indeed, it was essentially Ukraine's payment for financing the Yushchenko electoral campaign. And "Criminal" was given to Hindus. Secondly, it was stolen from our people because Krivoroztal annually made $780 million in profits, what went into the budget. And today it goes into the Hindu pocket. Next. Each fifth tonne of steel was produced in Ukrainian. This was a significant contribution by Ukraine to the world steel market, and we have in fact lost our opportunity to be a real competitor in the external market. This is to hide the crimes of social policy today: to expel people from their work in Krivoroztali on the pretext of establishing medical commissions, the trade union committee has in fact today become the body that orders certain tasks. I believe that we must seriously reflect today on the fact that Ukraine will soon lose this policy as a result. At the initiative of the President, an active position is imposed on the need to privatize the Odessa Port Facility, which is the largest strategic facility that in fact provides the possibility of external market implementation and strengthening, including with Russia, the transit of ammonia. This is a strategic enterprise, which includes national communications security. It's Turboatom, it's an agricultural plant, it's a "61 commune" -- the largest shipbuilding plant. I believe that, distinguished colleagues, it is time for us to take a decision in the Supreme Council today and to establish a future-generation fund immediately. And it is in this fund that all means of privatization should be sent. Today, the General Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors are concerned with this issue. Last sentence of the Communist faction. The Communist faction proposes to support and, in place of the President of a certain Shadow, as a candidate, we propose to Marmazov's candidature that the BUT faction, which initiated the sale of Krivoroztal and the surrender of national interests, should not hide its crimes for this commission. I propose Marmazov as chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u78	It's a socialist faction. Behind him Bodnar. Bondar's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u79	Stepan bubbly, faction of socialists. I'm looking at how lively people are talking about yesterday's term "admission" even, well, afraid to use it. How good, though, that the socialist Valentina Seminyuk finally privatized an object that allowed us to talk for so long now about whether it was worth creating a commission that would track and track, more faithfully, where those costs were distributed. But when I was appreciating the initiators of this commission, I was thinking about something, a movie where Vicin, remember, glued 10 rubles to the left, seems to mean panchos or whatever, and when he was asked where the money was, he said so himself, listen, and you didn't take it? It's a good thing we're making this commission right now. And it needs to be effective. I support that, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek, that, after all, the commission's head should not be a representative of a political power that is, I'm sure, involved in many of the abuses associated with privatization. So the socialists will vote for the commission, vote, support the very idea of creating this commission. However, everything must be done so that the work of this committee can finally be successful and that all the dots over the "and" should be placed. Maybe there's an answer to how the debt for gas was written down, let's say, known there, the famous princess and so on, maybe some other questions. In fact, this should no longer concern us, it should worry us about the answer to where the money, the money, could have solved many of the problems of the Ukrainian people. And I'm sure that's the right thing to do. I urge everyone to support the idea and the creation of this commission, and I support the idea of assigning the head of the Marmazov Party to the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u80	Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar has the words, followed by Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u81	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine", Alexander Bondar. For me, in general, the absurd question of creating this committee and the arguments that are now coming out of the rostrum. I would like to express the position of the faction “Our Ukraine” on this point. First. In order to verify the purpose of the use of the funds, parts of the funds received from the reselling of the “Cruverstals” are included in the budget of the Dnipropetrovsk Region and the city of Krivi Rig enough report by the House Accounts to be obtained by the request of this special control commission. I think that to set up a commission for a partial matter and to resolve it has been torn away from other issues that have to do with it. For example, I would like to propose to set up a commission to investigate spending starting in 2003, when budgetary revenues from privatization began to be reversed. Where did the money go from the sale of the first time the “Civoristals” of the Nicopolian Ferrospoly plant, the “Paulgrogradwugil” and other objects. Why do we not find out? Why don't we figure out how, why we don't find out the broader issue that's been raised today, in general, the sale of the "Crucials" first, second time, the comparison of these sales and why this difference in price. I agree with the thought expressed by the faction of Communists that we gave “Criminal”, but not the second time, but the first. And let's expand the concept of sales, starting with the first time using the funds, then the second time. Then it would be appropriate to create a commission. I don't understand the question of why we should cut this process off from the general privatization process. And I've already mentioned that we don't care about the faction of "Our Ukraine" that will be sold in the following year. We are concerned about how these objects will be sold. One thing is to sell the 600 objects according to the scheme that sold "Cruvoristal" for the first time. We're not going to get 10 billion in this case. The other thing is to sell these objects according to a scheme by which to resell the object at the auction with signs open to television. And then we can get more money in order than 10 billion. Therefore, I conclude and propose to extend the Commission's topic to the entire sale of Crimsonstalls for the first time, the second time, including the use of first-, second- and second-sales costs, and to deal with the use of funds, starting in 2003, when the annual revision of the revenue plan and the costs were not used for the purpose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u82	Thank you. The word is Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, when I listen to the statement by the representative of “Our Ukraine”, I think that if “Our Ukraine” wants to repent for what they have done, they can do it themselves. We don't need to be dragged into this glass. I would like to remind you that the hot resell of the “Creebral” was carried out in general in the wake of the so-called reprivatisation. And the list of such resellings included not only “Cruvoristal” but also a number of other enterprises that have scared off Ukraine for ever and ever a huge number of investors' money. It was a mistake. That's the first one. The revenues of the annual “Criminal”, which were shared in the budget, are now going somewhere else. One more. But what are the consequences? What are the consequences of the sale of the “Criminals”? The price of the product range has risen. Refused to buy Ukrainian coal is a loss. Ecology has deteriorated dramatically. The social conditions of people's work on the “Criminals” have deteriorated dramatically. I want the commission, which will be created and for which “Regions” will vote, to examine what further percentage of those bills that we voted for with you in the fourth call here, the representatives of various factions, including the BUT and the “Regions”, I mean the Hennadia Samofalova bill, that the funds should go to the people's savings. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you that yesterday at our committee meeting on social policy and work, we set up to pay back the most disadvantaged, that is, the elderly, who have one or two thousand dollars per book, and that's money per day, we just need 2 billion. We're going to target 2 billion people who are waiting and waiting for a lot to die. Why are these bills still ineffective and not implemented? One more. I support the view that the commission should be headed by a representative of that political power who did not take part in the reprivatisation. I'll tell you why. So that these innates are not judged or reasoned that someone is trying to hide the ends in the water. I'm sure it's the law. and the determination made by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will reveal many interesting things. Which is why let's not sow any more suspicions here. Let Marmazov lead this commission temporarily. And the last. Why six months? Dear colleagues, by February 1st or February, when we return from our winter vacations, the committee's conclusions may be prepared to continue with the prosecution's work, the law enforcement authorities, and release places for punishment to those who have dismembered the money. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u84	The initiator of the commission, Alexander Turchinov, asks for a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I am addressing representatives of the anti-crisis coalition. I'd like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that you have an account room, you have a KRU, you have all the power ministers, and so on. And you didn't get in the way of the time that you're directing the country to check the facts that we insist on, and you didn't. And now you're obstructing the opposition within the Constitution to create this commission of inquiry. I, Alexander Alexandrovich, address you. We had already had a precedent when the opposition proposed to create a commission, and in order to block its work, they changed the commission’s head. I'm going to remind you that the first-reading commission is accepted by the first-reading procedure, so I can't make any changes. When there is an alternative project, let them make an alternative project, and let them bring the head of Marmazov and so on. There is no alternative project. Therefore, I ask you not to violate the Constitution, not to violate the Rules and Law of Ukraine and to vote on our ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u86	Thank you for the tip. That's what I thought I would do, because it's, first of all, a simple decision. So in the first reading, it is accepted as a basis. And I'll put it to the vote. The project is in agreement. And what I'm saying is, this is a special commission, not an opposition, but a parliament. Just like the House of Accounts, it's not the opposition, it's the Parliament. The initiators were representatives of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko. No one would deny it. So in my first reading, I'm putting this project on the ground. Please, on the ground. [[11:22:18]] For 354 The factions, please. Region Party – 184, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 115, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Socialists – 27, Communists – 20, non-factional – 6. Proposals were made to reduce the duration of the commission’s activities, not for six months, but for two months. I'm voting on this proposal, please. [[11:22:59]] For 243 Decision taken. There was an offer instead of Sanchenko Andrija Vilenović to make the head of the Marmazov Evgen Vasilovich commission. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:23:26]] For 244 There's no other offer? I'm putting this whole project to a vote, in general. Tell me where I'm breaking the Rules. [[11:23:48]] For 244 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u87	Why do you deprive us of constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u88	Who took you away? Don't knock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u89	I say again, we're a minority, we're an opposition, we've discussed this issue with you. Why are you doing this? [[Unheard]] There's the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u90	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u91	Check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u92	Thank you, thank you. Would you like to express your opinion on this subject, on the grounds of the vote? Sit down, he'll tell you what he thinks from the rostrum. You don't want to. You don't have to. I am taking this opportunity to announce the creation of the Supreme Council between the factional parliamentary union of promoting European integration “European development”. He was admitted to this unification by 21 deputies. The headpieces were selected by Alexander Volodymyr and Vladimir Mikolaiovich’s Evening Meal. I want you to know about this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u93	I say again, show me the rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u94	You've been shown.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u95	I'm going to Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, the Regulatory Committee. There was a discussion as to whether the decree was properly voted or not. The question is quite controversial, but the Regulatory Committee has already considered this issue. I put to the vote as stipulated in the Rules. After the first-reading ruling was voted, it actually took place at the first reading stage. Further to this decision, and we often practice, changes are made — in terms of personal composition, in other matters. This is a document of the Supreme Council. In 15 minutes, like 12:30, if the Regulatory Committee says the violation is done here, I'll put the document to the vote. Please calm down! This is an assignment, please. If it is confirmed that this is a violation of the Rules, - I do not see it, at least - we will vote in a new vote. The question is: A draft Decision on the outlook for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. I'm here as a reporter for this. My report is very brief because all the committees and factions were working on this document. It's about that in the Prospective Plan of Legislative Work, we're going to include, and we're going to include those draft laws that come out of the Constitution, from the Universal, from the Anti-Crist Coalition, from the point of view of creating a coalition, and that are accompanied by the legal work of the executive branch, and not only. This project has been worked on, I repeat, by the committees, by the Institute of Law, the Legal Office. And I suggest you look at this document, it's suggested that you accept it in the first reading. If you agree, you can finally accept it, because in my opinion it is in all respects that it is in the interests of Parliament, of faction and not only. So I'm finishing up my report on this. If you have any questions, I can answer them. No, then, Ruslan Knazevitch, please report from the premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, as Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, I have been instructed to report today's decision to the committee in charge of the ruling. And yesterday, at its meeting, the Legal Committee discussed a draft decree on a forward-looking legislative work plan by the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Moroz Alexander Alexandrovitch, on the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fifth time of all parliamentary sessions of this call. The Committee on Legal Policy proposes to approve the outlook for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. The committee agreed that a forward-looking legislative work plan was the first similar document to be based primarily on the development priorities of the state and society. During the consideration of this bill, it is noted that the future planning of the Supreme Council's legislative activities is an important component of the phased reform process of the system of law that contributes to the predictability of legislation, the reduction of legislative gaps and the transformation of the legislative process into systemic long-term activities. The Committee noted that the legislative work plan provided for a review by the Supreme Council of 273 bills for 16 relevant sections of the legislative provision. The plan envisions the deadlines for the drafting of specific bills, as well as committees defined by the main committees, which are subject to the elaboration and submission of such bills. During the discussion, members of the committee noted that some 500 proposals from the relevant Main Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been processed in the design of the plan. At the same time, I would like to point out and this is reflected in the committee's decision that only separate laws on specific areas of legislative regulation are included in the forward-looking plan. And all the other current problems of current legislation can be solved in an orderly manner during the formation of the appropriate order of the daily parliamentary sessions, as we usually do during. at the beginning of each parliamentary session. In this regard, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the approval of a draft decree on the outlook for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u97	Thank you. Is there a question for Ruslan Petrovich? None. Who else would like to comment on this? There are no willing Bespali wants to make a statement. Please give the word to Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u98	Incorruptible, Our Ukraine. Alexander Aleksandrovich, the planning of the Supreme Council's work in general, is good. There's committee planning. At the same time, the agenda of the day session is the legislative work plan for the session. If we just divide the bills into perspectives and those that aren't included, there's just a filter out there where there's a danger of manual regulation and dispossessing of unwanted issues. In this part, supporting how I, too, would be a member of the Legal Policy Committee, a general idea, the right idea -- planning the work of the Supreme Council, its committees and factions, and I'm focusing on the danger of such issues when unwanted issues will not be included. And from this point of view, I think there's a serious problem, too. And one more, then. Now, in a situation that now does not allow me, for example, to speak from the rostrum, but from the city. The point is, article 133 of the Rules says that the rulings and other acts of the Supreme Council are taken with the procedure of first reading with the adoption of them as a whole, unless otherwise decided. That is also true of the decision to form a committee, which, since no other decision had been taken, would have been based on article 133 of the third part to vote, probably in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u99	Boris Yakovich, well, I'll answer your observation later. I'd like to speak to Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u100	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. The Communist faction will support this draft decree on a forward-looking legislative plan. Why would we support this project? We believe that it is necessary today to seriously review the practice of organizing the work of the Supreme Council in the preparation of draft laws, as well as working together with the Cabinet of Ministers and other actors in the legislative initiative. It is a matter of a long period of discussion in the Supreme Council, some criticism of tax policy in the State is expressed. As such, very serious, deep work on the Tax Code is not generally carried out by anyone in the State on tax policy. It is deliberately, i.e. the situation, used only during the budgetary process, rather than as a strategy to support the domestic producer, the small and medium-sized business. Similarly today, it is not a promising plan of work to protect the national producer from external factors of influence through the use of our opportunities at the border, through cooperation in protecting our markets outside, that is, our main areas of external economic activity. I believe that the question of the legislative framework for the protection of Ukraine has become very serious today, as the problem of privatization and land sales will lead to the fact that we will virtually repeat the same thing that occurred during privatization, the capture of certain territories will lead to the capture of our country's pits. I believe that there is a very serious need to improve the legislative framework for the protection of our country's energy engineering and, in general, the entire machine building, construction, energy, basic industries: metals, coal industry, military-industrial complex. Without such a strategy in our legislative work, it will not be possible to ensure the future. Then we will decide on the establishment of provisional commissions for the future, as some of our colleagues have suggested, forming our agenda. And the last. I would like to ask the presiding officer to correct his error in that the Communist faction has been deprived of the right to amend the draft law, which has been voted on, the draft Hunger Act. And by violating our right, we have written an amendment because this decision, signed by you, Alexander Alexandrovich, opens Makkartism in Ukraine without trial and investigations has already been found guilty by the person who wants to study archives, hold scientific conferences, discuss this issue with his colleagues, and what you have signed, in violation of all the laws and regulations of Ukraine, you have not allowed our faction to amend this law. I believe that the regulatory committee should consider this action, and you must call off this law, Alexander Alexandrovich, because you have violated the rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u101	I'm in a difficult situation. On the one hand, I broke, and on the other hand, I broke. I want to say that I was acting in accordance with the Rules. Boris Yakovic, there's no danger of making plans for the session. This is, in fact, the orientation for the entire legislative work system at the time of parliamentary cadence. We set ourselves up to have all the organic laws under consideration, so that the legal co-existence of the activities of the executive branch is ensured, and in all sectors of social relations. Notice, there are also questions concerning the social sphere, the spiritual sphere, politics, the economy, and so forth, that is, there are no threats. But it is clear to the MPs, especially those who work on one committee or another, that certain laws need to be prepared in advance that need to be decided in the Supreme Council. Thus, there are no warnings and everything is done as is required by the organization of the normal work of the legislative body. I'd like you to support this project. I am grateful that Peter Mikolaiovich supports this bill, we will vote on it, and with regard to the amendments to the Hullodomor Act, you can make these changes, we will vote on them. It's going to be an amendment to the law. No, no, no, no. They passed the law. I'll explain again, please. First of all, in this law, public advocacy against the fact of hunger is called illegal and not more, and the Cabinet of Ministers' mandate is made on which. I ask once again how you can bring these things into line, write amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedural Code, and other codes. And then when you look at them, you fully defend the right to freedom of speech of anyone. I think it's all very clear. If I am ready, let the Rules Committee consider your proposal, admits that this is an improper act, we will react accordingly. I am voting because there are no more speakers, the draft decree short-term plan for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5 to approve. Since it is very short, I immediately place it as a whole. Please vote. [[11:41:25]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. Is there a representative of the Regulatory Committee? Ready to go? Yes. The question has already been considered, please. From the faction? You authorize him to speak out of motive, right? Please. There is no evidence that this is a requirement. Authorized, right? Please, it's easy to speak, we'll listen. With a 1 minute motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Aleksandrovich, you don't have to worry about my authority. Yours should be where you need to be. I was going to say about what just happened, you've just denied the right to make a decision on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission. You have the power, you have the government, you have the House of Accounts, you have all the power to hold and control the process. There's nothing in the opposition and you're denying it the ability to have at least a constitutional right to create a commission. I want to remind you, there was a similar situation with the gas tariffs commission and the Regulatory Committee found your actions to be illegal. We've decided that you broke the law. Because this decree on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission has to be voted on both as a basis and as a whole. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, do not tread on the same rakes that you have already trodden on. Hold on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u103	Oleg, first of all, not rakes, but rakes. But it's a detail. I want to say this. A task has been given to the regulatory committee. He'll come to his conclusion. If he really is a violation because I don't see him, frankly, I don't see a violation because he's voted in the Rules. But pay attention. Today, the anti-crisis coalition is helping to create this commission, because without it, you lack the votes. I need 150 votes. That's right, 150 votes. Without this support, it will not be created. That's right. It's logical for you to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u104	I'm asking you, it's not written in the Rules as you say. Let them conclude now. Let's vote. No problem. The draft Law on Presidential Proposals to the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Taxation is under consideration. Please. I'm warning the MPs that you want to violate the Constitution right now. And you'll be dealing with the Criminal Code. So I strongly recommend you don't do anything stupid. Take your seats. A mandate has been given to the Regulatory Committee. He'll make the right conclusions, he'll say it's wrong. Please. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u105	There is a committee decision, and you know it! You know about this decision. I'm telling you again, you know about this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u106	Write your application for recess, I'll call it a day. Write your application for recess, I'll call it a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u107	We have one faction demanding, commission, and the opposition faction does not require that. And once again, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u108	I don't have the right to call a break at the request of just a deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u109	You know there's a committee decision. There's already a committee decision, and you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u110	I'm asking you to step aside.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u111	You know what the committee's decision is? You know that already. You're deliberately breaking up the Supreme Council meeting today. You're knowingly doing this, and you're deliberately depriving the opposition of the only right to create a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u112	I'm making remarks now to MPs behind their backs trying to break Parliament's sessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u113	And we've worked with you before. You're using yourself right now in front of your coalition to stay out of office for your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u114	Alexander Valentinovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u115	I say again, you use it in front of them, you use it! You use them in violation of the Rules and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u116	Please, calm down. There's a break for 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u117	I'm asking you to sit down. Deputies! There was a discussion on the legality of the decree on the creation of a special commission. We do not have this explanation for the Constitutional Court, and our Rules do not write this procedure in detail. So I was convinced that we voted correctly, and the opponents said we didn't vote properly. Adam Ivanovich will express his thinking. Ask Peter Simonenko for a change.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. I'm going to read you the transcripts of our last decision on the Special Investigation Commission, and the last one we created was from what was published in the 2000 Lucenka newspaper. Here's how the decision was made. And then no one objected. [[C and u is s t e r a m e]] :
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u119	Deputies! You took part in this discussion and there were several options for making a decision. The first is given in the draft decree by the legislators of Kushnarov, Kushnarov, Kiselov, Pecklusenko. The second position expressed by the head of the committee of profile, Vladimir Stretovich, on moving the issue after removing all the inaccuracies in the draft decrees, which, on the one hand, arose for objective reasons because two months had already been prepared and, on the other hand, because of some disagreement about the nominations made by the commission. And the third thing that comes out of questions and answers is that, first of all, in the draft decision or in the Supreme Council document itself, it's hardly appropriate to popularize a newspaper or a newspaper because all our newspapers only write the truth, you know, but it's not worth giving the newspaper priority. In addition, the draft decree provides for the need to delete the relevant articles from the draft decree, which is called the name of the minister, until it has been approved and so on. So there are actually three options for voting: the first option I call a party is called a legislative initiative. I'm setting up this project. The second proposal from the committee is to move to next week. And the third option that I would suggest is that I want you to listen to this: if it doesn't go one and the other, then vote with the changes that were proposed by Volodymyr Stretovich, replacing the members of the faction of the block and so on. So let me first vote on the basis of the project itself, and then we vote on changes or proposals. There's a vote on the ground. For – 234 Now, let's talk about change. I ask you to remove a reference from this text to remove the minister from his duties. For – 127 Proposals are not supported. Then at the second point, instead of Sovkovic, write down the last name," -- and so on, and so on." So in order to save time, I'm telling you once again that we acted perfectly logically, and that's in line with the rules of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u120	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u121	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The position of our faction — special commissions to investigate crimes — should not be headed by those involved in these crimes. BUT was the initiator, and Timoshenko, the sale of Crimsonstalls. This money was sprayed with oranges, and it must have blown up. Here, the Office of the Attorney-General needs to be dealt with, and we must act boldly, and we support them in this. I also believe that the members of this faction on Alexanderia Coal - that yesterday Evgeny Vasilevich Marmazov brought in the murderous facts, the code of the People's Deputy of the BUT faction simply destroys Alexanderia Coal. But we now see that the organization of the work of this commission is being specifically blocked through the closure of the rostrum. I am withdrawing my proposal for Eugenia Vasilevich Marmazov as Chairman. As a member of the commission, he will do the same thing that the president will not give you the opportunity to hide your crimes. I guarantee it. And we're going to demand that the accounting commission show you where you, the orange team, share the money from the Crimsons.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u122	Who's to go back to voting on this decree, please? Now, and then you take the word. [[12:10:38]] For 327 Let's go back to that question. You do. The Turk wants to make a statement. Give him your word. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I emphasize, the first thing we've seen is another attempt to remove the opposition to constitutional law -- 150 votes to create commissions of inquiry. It is our right and no one has the right to deprive us of it. As for your transcript, when you read, the reverend Adam Ivanovich, according to the author, they may be. any changes have to be made, but there must be agreement between the authors of the decision. There is a clear explanation of the Constitutional Court on this point, there is a decision of the Regulatory Committee, and I understand that your attempt to block the investigation of the disappearance of money from the “Criminal” answers only one, because it is the anti-crisis coalition's representatives who are probably involved in this and that's why you tried to change the commission's leadership. And I'd like to tell the venerable communists. Your anti-crisis coalition is today offering a full deposit of state property, and you are responsible. And what you're doing today is once again stressing that you don't care about the Constitution and any rights, including the rights of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u124	Please! After the decision is made, you will make a reply. Okay. I'm forced to still bet on the commission's head, on the dismissal, on Marmazov's refusal to be chairman of the committee for the vote. Please support this proposal. Please. [[12:12:34]] For 344 Now, there was a proposal by the Turkish deputy – instead of Yehanurov to write Dawimuku, a national deputy. Please! Let's vote change. Please. Please, the proposal of “Our Ukraine”, I put it to the vote. [[12:13:13]] For 376 It doesn't make any difference that we've made a change, does it? Vote. Now, in general, I am putting the ruling to a vote. Please. And I want to tell you, the commission will be created even if you don't want to. Please, the vote is on the table with these changes. [[12:13:42]] For 348 Decision taken, 348. Thank you. Simone's replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u125	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I've taken the line from the last statement about who we're dealing with in the Supreme Council. I would like to remind all colleagues of who failed to set up an investigation commission to investigate the causes of the increase in unwarranted gas tariffs, including housing and utility charges. It was those who did not want us to investigate who was involved in the destruction of the contract company with Russia, who failed the negotiations with Russia at the price of gas. But most importantly, it was the representatives of the bloc, Timoshenko, who initiated the postponement of consideration of the commission because the Communist faction had invited the commission to investigate the write-off of seven and a half billion bracelets of single energy systems that had been written down in the days following the appointment of Timoshenko as Prime Minister. That is, from the State Treasury, in fact, seven and a half billion bracelets were stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u126	At 12:45 a.m. Parliament will continue its work. A break is being announced, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u127	Please announce in the corridor, which is now opening, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We have a work plan for today, in view of the involvement of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers at 12.30 p.m. in the previous report of the Provisional Investigation Commission on the verification of corruption, the abuse of office by individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as set out in the relevant articles. This decree was adopted on September 8. More faithfully, this material was printed on September 8, 2006. With regard to the Rules, consideration of the matter, a report from the Commission will be made. You can ask questions and get answers to these questions. You may invite a minister to attend this meeting. You can come out of factions one at a time. And make decisions based on the proposals of the Temporary Commission. This is the previous report of the Temporary Commission, as we have determined in our determination, creating this commission of our own time. In the above - mentioned commission report, who should do so? This is the chairman of the commission, Sovkovic Vladimir. Please. How long have you been here? 15 minutes? 15 minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u128	Dear Head, dear colleagues. The interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the verification of corruption, the abuse of office by individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as set out in the article “Other Police”, published in the newspaper “2000” of September 8, 2006, was created by Supreme Council decree of November 2, 2006, number 302. The commission was made up of representatives of all parliamentary factions, both in the majority and in the opposition. The commission set out the following tasks. A thorough study and analysis of the circumstances that have led to the findings of the media on the system of abuse and corruption among law enforcement officials, the real picture of the activities of law enforcement agencies, the measures taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to eradicate corruption and abuse, the preparation of objective material on the facts found, and the outcome of the examination of the situation at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From the very beginning of the work of our commission, the members of the commission decided that there would be no presumptive political persecution, a collection of political accounts, already common in our society of populism. We wanted not only to carry out Parliament's mandate to verify the facts of journalists, but also to help lead the IMF to undertake reforms to prevent a dangerous situation in this ministry. We had to take a closer look at the work of the police, as we received hundreds of letters and petitions from citizens about the violation of the law by employees of internal affairs. We were also approached by the police themselves, who believed and thought that the current management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was unprofessional in carrying out its duties. In a short period of time, the commission was able to verify only a fraction of these references. From the beginning of the work of the commission, 31 requests were sent to ministries, authorities, and government authorities, 12 of which received answers. Unfortunately, the commission notes that the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not wish to facilitate the work of the commission and the deadlines established by law to prepare answers to our requests at the proper time. We analyzed the dynamics of the number of criminal cases that stopped because of the defendants ’ illness. Think of the results of the 9 months of 2006 alone. The number of criminal cases that have stopped for this reason has doubled over the past few years. 90% of the defendants suspected of causing deliberate serious bodily harm and of cases where they were stopped were suddenly ill. Ninety-nine percent of the cases of thieves and those responsible for the death toll have also been closed because of the disease of the defendants, and then you and I wonder why it is impossible to punish the children of our superiors who kill ordinary Ukrainians, including members of the militia, on purchased expensive cars. It was not uncommon for the commission to draw attention to the strange dynamics of the defendant’s caseloads. The point is that it is in this category that the heads of the local units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs hide those matters on which decisions should be made entirely under other articles of the Criminal Code, and this is systemic. Why is this being done? With two motives. The first one, thus creating a vision of the well-being of crime detection, is based on these indicators that the IMF prepares a report on the rapid increase in the performance of its work. And the other, unfortunately, is useful. That is how unconscionable investigators can be called helping criminals to wait for the end of the investigation. And I think it's not altruism, it's a sign of corruption. In 2005, and 9 months 2006, 99 000 were accidentally cancelled, consider illegal orders to stop the investigation and to stop the investigation. The Ministry also refused to provide data on the dynamics and patterns of juvenile delinquency, and evidence suggests that the number of juvenile robberies and robberies is steadily increasing. The IMF is not doing enough work to reduce the criminal impact on the growing generation. The Ukrainian Court of Auditors, whose audit results were transferred to the commission, noted that the IMF does not take into account the decline in the number of minors among our population for demographic reasons in recent years. The number of minors is dropping sharply, and the number of robbers among them is steadily increasing. The commission was able to organize the work on setting up the actual circumstances and the episodes in the publications. The tests confirmed that the number of violations mentioned in the publications really had a place. The facts of the violation by individual officials in the U.S. Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa area of regulatory requirements in the formulation of transport vehicles imported into Ukraine without customs fees are fully relevant, as it is easier to say that these are smuggled cars. The checks confirmed that thus, imported and registered in the process of valid car legislation of the toyote “,Lexus”, “Nissan”, “Infiniti”, Mercedes-500. According to the IMF, the last car has already been removed from the account for implementation, and by now the location of neither the car nor the owner has been found, the police cannot find it themselves. Such actions by law enforcement officials have now resulted in significant losses of some 500,000 dollars. The test materials of September 13, this year, were sent to the prosecutor’s office in the city of Illíchivsk. However, the prosecution does not recognize the composition of the crime. Thus, on October 18, a criminal case was dismissed. The case was again referred to the Odessa District Attorney’s Office for the legality of the decision. As a result, on November 20, the decision to refuse a criminal case was annulled, and the case was sent for detailed review, and it was under review by the Attorney General's Office. The fact is also confirmed that the episode of illegal registration of transport equipment in the MREO-2 DAI ODES region is true. The activities of the Ministry of Interior’s employee Prudek, who was responsible for the registration, have also caused significant damage to the State’s interests. In this case, the attorney general’s office in the Malinov district of Odessa did not recognize the presence of the crime. The interim commission of inquiry sent the relevant information to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a statement, to organize a new audit with the involvement of colleagues of the Henprocurator and prosecutorial response. It was allowed by the colleagues of GAI Ukraine in the Odessa region to illegally license drivers to foreign citizens who did not have the right to do so. Five cases of illegal certification have been detected, another 20 and another 100 on arrival yesterday. Once the test is completed, the materials will be sent to the Henprocurator’s office. What are we talking about? It's about legalization of actually illegals that get driver's licenses instead of all the other documents. This enables them to stay and work in Ukraine. The issues discussed in the publications related to possible abuse of the position of Stotsky, who then served as deputy chief and then as chief of the GAI in the Odessa region, are still being clarified. It was found that in April 2005, Stocka actually applied to the company “. ” asking to pay the total amount of 15,000 dollars. The verification also revealed the fact that similar accounts were paid by other Ulysses, banks and Meximbank. At the same time, the IMF did not provide any real motivation for Stocka’s use. Reports from the Ministry of Internal Affairs were sent to the prosecutor’s office on December 30 last year. We were not provided with information about their status. In the meantime, no action has been taken to influence Stotsky on these facts, although it has been proven to raise money and has been transferred to higher office, she is now working as a representative of the interior minister in the Odessa district of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The commission received an address from the resident of Odessa on the facts of corruption by officials in the Odessa region. An entrepreneur complains of pressure from law enforcement officials, which is being carried out through constant checks that are not provided and require money. The names used in the address are the same as the names that were investigated in all other crimes. In our view, the facts indicated the existence of a system of things. Because information on illegal activities, abuses, and corruption derived from various sources has consistently found the same individuals. This is further confirmed by information on the results of similar episodes in other regions of Ukraine. So in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, a criminal group that specializes in non-legalization of smuggled cars has been discovered. During the group period, 46 cars were illegally imported and legalized, and more than one and a half million dollars were lost to the State. The head of the DAI Ministry in the region of Ivano-Frankiv took an active part in the activities of the criminal group. But what's interesting is that there was the same Kirnitsky who was currently working in Odessa, who was being tested. Many questions are raised by an episode that alienates the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa area of the children's rest camp “Salut”. Although the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Odessa District’s Criminal Offence Order has been revoked, the ruling of the Primorski District Court requires further investigation. New materials have been added to the criminal case for the transfer to Odessa branch of the Odessa branch of the Odessa branch of the Odessa branch of the “.plus” facility and the construction of a children’s camp located in a 1 hectare area. A financial and economic audit in the Odessa County U.S.U.S.A. and other judicial expertise continues to be carried out. And the Odessa District Attorney's Office has appealed to the court. According to the commission, the materials listed after the investigation are also subject to a summary report. A check of the housing arrangements of the Kirnicki chief, mentioned earlier, established that Odessi’s residence was indeed granted to him with a violation of the requirements of applicable legislation. The District Attorney’s Office has filed a lawsuit for the invalidity of the order issued to Krynicki and for evictions without the granting of another home. The order was annulled by the State Administration before the case was closed. Actually, there's a whole problem with housing in the MVD, and it's separate. Because about 10 district managers have two, three or more apartments obtained in the state. Thus, as evidenced by the above information, the number of facts presented in the “2000” paper was indeed not enough. Regrettably, the Ministry came up with these facts in a formal way, limited to studying only the cases listed in the publications. In fact, information was ignored about the widespread distribution of abuses, such as signs of the existence of an active operating system to avoid restrictions imposed by law by U.S. agents in their own interests. During the commission's work, 169 were received today's 105 official appeals from citizens in various regions of Ukraine regarding internal affairs. A large number of appeals relate to illegal actions by members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs against unlawful detention, detention, beating, torture, and so forth, and the improper performance of duties by employees. The fact that police personnel avoid registering or unwarrantedly writing off criminal statements and reports is being handled by thousands today without any response. Let me give you just a few examples. In the Gitomir region, district inspector Makarczuk systematically concealed citizens’ allegations of crimes committed against them. Residents of P. for beatings, two claims by H. for bodily harm, and two allegations of theft from the local CSP remain unregistered. In the Winnitsk region, the authorized Mazur hid a statement from the director of one of the vineyard companies about the abuse of power and official power for two months. According to a citizen named T., one of the local shops had a underground liquor factory that had been abandoned for six months. In Kiev, in its report to C.’s citizens on the robbery of her two persons, the operational curiosity of Kudra concluded that there was no unlawful action against the victim and that the information must be written down. However, a small part of the appeal is evidence of abuse of authority, participation of coworkers in procurement and corruption wars, corruption, the use of shadow equipment, and the theft of state funds. Some appeals have already been directed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to respond, more than 50 referrals have been sent to the Attorney General’s Office. During October-November, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a large number of appeals from Ministry employees in the Equinox. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Residents of the area of Systemic Multiple Violations of the Sub-Division. Now all of these facts that have been given have actually been confirmed. As a result, most of them have been confirmed, including through our deputies. During only 9 months of the current year, the District Attorney's Office introduced 270 response documents by the heads of the USA, 157 cases of cover-up by members of the U.S.S.A., 153 cases of investigators have been dismissed. Refusal of criminal cases, 104 closures, 740.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u129	Let me finish. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u130	740 restraining orders. According to statistics, nearly 5,000 crimes were reported in the area during 9 months 2006. The procurator’s office ruled that 11,54 were wrong. This means that falsifications for the purpose of triggering the indicators were allowed in the investigation of every four cases in the area. Such results are evidence of the deep negative processes that are taking place in the Raven region’s U.S.S. system. This is what citizens and unjustifiably repressed U.S.S. agents pay attention to. It appears that the situation is alarming, and it requires urgent hard work until the decision is made in principle. But there is a strange reaction from Minister Lucenk. In his information, he wrote: “According to statistical information, the state of crime in the Rhineland in 10 months 2006 has improved compared to 2005. ” The increase in the number of crimes investigated in the accounts is also achieved by delay, calculation, and transfer to the next period. As a result, all the analytical materials of the state authorities based on the statistical indicators of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs are virtually unreliable. In view of this, it is not clear how a society, head of state, the Supreme Council can actually assess the state of crime in the state. I'll cut the report a little short then. The interim commission of inquiry also conducts inspections of state-owned enterprises established in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, such as “Resources”, their regional representations – “Resources-Document”, “Resources-Lightware” and so on. More than two hundred such enterprises. It is planned to carry out their checks with the involvement of the Court of Auditors and the CPR. Today’s tests show that abuse in this area is probably the greatest. The Antimonopoly Committee is protesting the services created. The interim commission of inquiry has had to note that the materials available today show not only signs of systemic abuse of power and corruption but also a demonstration of the unwillingness of the senior management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to recognize the facts and objectively assess the situation that has arisen. Measures to combat corruption among law enforcement officials are actually used by the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine under pressure from the public and the media. The creation of an effective mechanism for the prevention of misconduct among officials of internal affairs has been replaced by the decommissioning of internal security units and the unwarranted extension of their powers. The Ministry's activity is accompanied by excessive politicization, which has resulted in a negative practice of announcing any criticism, irrespective of its rationale and constructiveness, political persecution. Taking into account what has been said, the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council considers it necessary to agree with the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption on the extremely low level of work of the Minister of Interior, Lucenka, in charge of the administration of Ukraine's internal affairs, in ensuring their enforcement of legislation in the area of combating organized crime and corruption, and as a result of the inadmissibility of his continued stay in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u131	Is there a question? There's a question. Please sign up for the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u132	Yeah, 10 minutes to ask. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u133	Please give the floor to Deputy Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u135	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Certainly, the gangrene of corruption began to devour the body of Ukraine in an era of primary capital accumulation, in an era when the political power you represent was in power. Billions were coming down, and parliamentary elections were being falsified. And in view of that, I want to say that the segment of the term at 1.5 years that you report is not an option to eradicate corruption, especially when there is no parliamentary majority that supports it. At the same time, the facts are weak, they're not striking in the background of the facts that I've called, the relevant notes that the farmer hides or the guns sent are weak. Against the background of case law, I would like to ask you, Your Honor, how often the head of the various commission of inquiry, often tended, do you not think that the book "Donetsk Mafia" can serve as the subject of a new commission of inquiry? Will you lead such a commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u136	I'd like to ask the question essentially, not the reporter, to his personal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u137	No, the question is, if a commission like this is created and the Supreme Council is going to put me in charge of this commission, I'm going to investigate this commission. As far as the guns you're talking about are concerned, here's a list of guns. Here's almost your entire faction. Most of these. Most of these guns are given on their birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u138	I'm saying, almost. 47 people. Most of it's on my birthday. He's sitting there, smiling, giving him a gun on his birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u139	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u140	I want you to understand that the gun is state property. And state property can't be donated to gifts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u141	Please don't argue. Asked questions, answered enough. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Regrettably, the minister of the interior didn't give me guns or anything else on my birthday or on any other holiday. And we're very critical of the minister's work, but at the same time, the Yulia Block Timoshenko will not vote in favour of Lucenko's resignation for at least the reason that we find it inappropriate to have these squabbles that are being made here today by the anti-crisis coalition in Parliament. This is the minister of your government. The anti-crisis coalition is responsible for him. On their own council, coalitions would find out. Besides, I have a question to ask Sovikovitch: Who will be the successor of Lucenko? Is it not one of the figures in the Gongadze case, which, as is now reported in the media? Who, then, will be better off from the anticrisis coalition than the criminogenic situation in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u143	This is a question for the leadership of the anti-crisis coalition. My job today is to make a report, a preliminary report according to the Supreme Council Regulation. And what Lucenko didn't give you, I'm really happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u144	Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Leonidovich! I'm here! Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, listening to the set of facts you gave in your speech, I kept thinking about why you were so low on us MPs, do you think? I'll explain what I think. These are the facts that should indicate that there are people in the Ministry of Internal Affairs who do not perform their duties, and you are leading us to conclude. But why is there no analysis? You've been giving figures in the Odessa area, there's a number of hidden cases. What was wrong with Bilocon at Kravchenk's? And maybe that number indicates that the way you want us to think about it is, let's say, wrong. And to the end. If you conclude that you are serious about going to this rostrum. Why haven't all the materials, including your speech, your facts and your analysis of the relevant services, been distributed to us as to the reliability of the facts you are quoting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u146	Mr. Chubarov, first of all, that's not true. Because the materials of the commission of inquiry were reproduced and distributed to all in the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. Wait a second. And secondly, you have a representative of your commission, Anton Ruzicki, only yesterday from Odessa. You ask him what's going on. What we have in our documents and facts, what we can take to the Supreme Council stands today, is one thousand of what the militias told him came to him and wept.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u147	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u148	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Tomenka’s colleague has an important question. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u149	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u150	Volodymyr Leonidovich, it's very important to me by precedent, as we do in Parliament, I'd like to take a look. A very delicate situation has arisen. In August, the antichrist coalition and the faction you belong to unanimously vote for the minister of the interior. On September 8, a newspaper owned by a Canadian citizen publishes a series of publications that we have organized crime. Perhaps it was Canadian intelligence that helped this newspaper to provide such materials because you did not know when to vote. And it worries me terribly, you know. If, within a month, no one knew what was going on in the Odessa region and that there was such organized crime. And a month later, perhaps because of, indeed, the help of the Canadian government there, the services we learned are also dangerous to Ukraine’s national security. What happened in a month is that you're talking about terrible changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u151	Thank you. First of all, I think it's a very big mistake that we went on to the matter and the minister appointed by your faction manager, and when she said here that he would handle the ministry best of all, we took it and listened, and we appointed him as minister again. But it's half as if it were a situation, because we were just learning. This is the first time that proportional elections have brought together a new coalition and it, now we understand that we can't go to concessions. We went to the President's concession, and he then asked Lucenko to be the minister and remain as a guarantor that there would be no corruption of the system in Ukraine. That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u152	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski. Alexandre Alexandrovich is very much asking to be spoken to by Jaroslav Kendzior. Everyone would have done it if I were me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u154	Is that your faction? Please, Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u155	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Alexander Alexander, as always tolerant and delicate. Mr. Volodymyr, your report, your report has significant gaps. You've completely missed the repressive activity of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka, which has led to the absence in Ukraine today of General Sal, the Libyan ex-criminal authority, General Bilokon, Varsab, Carpathian, Bodela, Bakaya, Drought, and you could still be very, very much involved, you've somehow missed that question. The other one. You, no, not the former, you're a humane kagebist, which today, and the former, there's no such thing as a Ukrainian humane kagebist, he's one of today's fairies, or you're planning on becoming a minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u156	You agreed to that, and I'm just gonna be an cosmonaut. As far as everyone you named is concerned. If these people were criminals, they should have been in prison. If the police were professionally suited, believe me, none of them would have been able to leave. If they left, and if they really robbed so much, and today they live singing in Russia, it's not my problem, it's the minister who couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u157	Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u158	Because the newspaper “2000” did not mention them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u159	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please don't argue. In the Security Service, it's not a disgrace to a person, well, that's a bit of a strange assessment for those who have a secret employee there, who, we're not talking about. Please. But this does not apply to the subject, this refers to questions relating to the order of the day. Please. Baldirev, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u160	Hello! Can you hear me? Baldyrev, Party of Regions. Well, without interfering with the dispute between the KGB's secret informants and his public officials, I'd like to know. Since Mr. Lucenko, the current Minister of the Interior, has begun his activities as a terminator, he himself has stated, and I understand from your report that he has done little in terms of the destruction of the militia. Judging from his intervention at one of our political parties recently, he is going to bring great benefit to this party after he retires. Do you think, by resigning him, that we will create a monster who knows too much and knows too much and will not lead a new one, will he not lead a new path, perhaps a different color?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u161	I think that because Lucenko knows too much and knows too much, but in any case, in a year and a year and a half, there was a lot to learn, he understands that illegal acts as a leader of political power cannot be done. And I don't think he's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u162	Once again, I ask everyone who asks questions and answers to be absolutely correct and to focus on the essence of the question. There's a report, there's the subject of the commission's work around it, let's not go into personality, because we're all smart, we all know a lot, we don't have to talk about it. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u163	Me?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u164	Yuri Vitaliyovich, please. Calm down, calm down. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u165	I would have asked so much of myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u166	Well, let's do 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Considering that I have just been ordered to refer the Prime Minister to my removal, I will allow myself to tell myself more about the publication in one of the Ukrainian newspapers. I became the first civilian Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. President Yushchenko gave me three basic tasks last February. The first is to clean up the militia. The second is to increase the fight against crime and corruption. The third is the cessation of IMF involvement in politics and business. Let us briefly report the results. First. During 2005-6, the Department of Internal Security of the Police broke 594 in the past and 581 in a criminal case involving internal affairs officials. That's 85 percent of the cases that cleaned up all the law enforcement agencies. I want to remind you that there were 186 cases in 84 of these cases before me and 68 in 2003. It's about cleaning up the militia with our hands. As a result, 153 former police officers were sentenced to prison this year alone. About 400 more are freed forever by discrediting factors. Second position. Service crimes. In the past and current year, the IMF has identified 1,432 economic and office crimes with a total loss of 30 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. According to our materials, the prosecutor's office, and only she can bring responsibility, and that should be known to Mr. Sovkovic, that only they can catch foreign officials, so the prosecutor's office has committed 1,800 criminal cases. Among the exposed, more than 900 authorities and 700 deputies. I would like to remind you that in previous years, this has not been done at all. But as the ancients say, there were no more than two dozen such cases. Because everyone was washing their hands. Bribery. There are three times as many bribes in these years as in the previous period of executives, one and a half times as many officials of the supervisory authorities, and twice as many officials of the authorities. Seventy - five percent of these cases have been brought to trial, only 30 have been dealt with, and only 40 out of a thousand have actually received prison terms! Third. We're radically shutting down business schematics at the IMF. I just want to remind you one thing, I know exactly that the customers of all the publications in the newspaper “2000” are the ones that organized the “volinska klondike” when thousands of cars did not pay their dues to the budget. Today, these people are talking about the abuse of the minister. And I want to say, this year there are as many cars in Ukraine as there are in 2006, but there are more than one and a half billion dollars in the budget. This is the answer for all who seek corruption in the actions of the minister of the interior. Second position. The second position that I hope will be applauded on this side of the hall. We held an honest election for the first time, and the police did not become a weapon in the hands of any political force. But of course, I understand very well that this is not the interest of the organizers of my report. They're talking about errors in statistics. For example, Mr. Sovkovic told us that statistics are wrong because we do not consider crimes related to the SBU’s jurisdiction. And just so you know, they're only 2 percent of them in there. Not enough, according to Kabminu's decree, I have no right to put them in charge. But this is of no interest to the organizers. In order not to tell long, I have handed over to you materials that show that according to the facts of the publications in the newspaper “2000” for which you, honourable national deputies, and formed a commission, have been checked by the Attorney General's Office. You have their materials in your hands, which you can see very clearly: no fact is confirmed. On three facts that the prosecutor’s office has not fully investigated, the courts have refused to prosecute criminal cases. Therefore, all that is done around the publications in this, with the permission to say, is the desire to change the governance of Ukraine’s internal affairs. You also know that the Kyiv Court of Appeal has found me not guilty of corruption, which was trying to pin me on a Doña alien to the Attorney General's Office. You also know that you have conclusions in your hands about Mr. Giga's statement by the committee, which are also not confirmed and the statistics of the Ministry are being falsified. I'm not going to stop at what Sovkovic said. For example, 900 cases, 900,000 cases allegedly closed by the prosecutor’s office. Well, that doesn't exactly match any statistics. I can say, for example. Ninety - nine thousand cases were closed by the authorities of the Henprosecutors. I want to report that in two years, the statistics of the Attorney General's Office show that 17,000. Mr. Sivkovic, he's more keen on picking out those who make you a compass. Or else. 16,000 cases have been dismissed by the Attorney General's Office as illegal. This is actually 16,000 forged cases, says Mr. Sivkovic. I mean, out of 1.5 million negatives, just 13 or 14 thousand you cancel them, that's less than 1 percent. And it's a stable phenomenon at any age, under any direction of the Ministry. But I'm not going to waste my time on statistics right now, because obviously it wasn't the organizers at all. I didn't want to go to that government. But that's what the President decided, and that's how the Prime Minister agreed. I looked forward to the peaceful coexistence of the two systems to overcome political ambitions at least in the field of crime. I know most national MPs have long wanted the same thing. But there are regents who don't give it, there are people who sleep hard at night and don't have a day. Today, there are nine attempts to remove a minister, under whose direction are 300,000 people, who are virtually unable to carry out their legal duties peacefully. But I know who wants it. The shells are getting closer, Eugene Petrovich. Already locked in a bribe to transfer the Secretary of the Kharkiv Region for 300,000 dollars. Is it not possible to quietly drain the money in the conversion centers, Alexander Sergiyovich? 76 million in Luhansk closed envelopes. Is there no way to capture the Lake, Mikolo Vasilovich, even though you personally instructed the organizer of this massacre, who shot the militias, on your phone? The land of Kyiv won't let Aunt Volodymyrna sleep? Do millions of dollars' bags keep Artem Volodymyrovich from resting? Recalculate Next? I can. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the execution of the executioners who shot the director of Azov steaming, some here fear asking questions about the customers. The underground gourds. They're asking what they paid 50,000 for, and they haven't changed the Homenko yet, and Lucenko hasn't been taken off. Isn't that right, Artem Mikolaiovich? Thus involved in the looting of funds from the Detainee Foundation, the ‘Okrazaleznica’, the ‘Naftogazu’, the ‘Reserve’ agreed in the general grave of Ukraine, and matters were stopped. But Lucenka doesn't have one, he asks: “Why are they stopped, on what grounds, and when will those who gave the show correspond: I am a member of a criminal organized group under the leadership - still have the names of the highest officials of the President you supported? So what's important: honest elections for none of you, honourable lords in power today, are no longer needed, people have tried your improvement of life today, which they have suffered from poverty, and again they need an administrative resource at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, do I understand? So I understand perfectly -- these people won't let me and the honest leaders of the IMF work in peace. So sooner or later, my place will be in opposition. But I want to disappoint the puppet leaders: I will not be a factor in the dissipation of the Ukrainian democratic forces, and my hand stretched out by Julius Volodymyr and Roman Petrovich. I'm sure, Alexander Alexander, that you will be with us, because together we will definitely win.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u168	I'd like to go to whoever's making the report, please, closer to the subject and questions and answers, because we have a slightly different action now. Who has a question for the minister? Is it? Sign up. Ten minutes. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u169	Alexander Bondar, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Mr. Minister, you read the shows of Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov on television on several occasions in connection with the privatisation before the President's election. He didn't deny these shows, and he didn't say they were authentic. I'd like to hear from you as a minister: are these really real demonstrations signed under the protocol? Really, then, why is their fate so unknown to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u170	Thank you for asking. You know, unfortunately, Mr. Chechtov's shows have been published on the Internet, at least the bag is said to be in these materials. It's true. It says, for example: “In particular, with regard to ‘Criminalis’, I received this instruction from the former President of Kuchma, namely, to accept and listen to the initiative of the People's Deputy of Pinchuk to privatize the KIC. “ I’m I turn the page around and there are other famous names. Are these his signatures on these protocols, Alexander Mikolaiovich? I think as a former fund employee you can easily recognize. Why are they not being investigated? Because there is no political will in Ukraine's “general grave ” to question both Kuchma and Pinchuk and the other high lords mentioned here. And what I want to remind you is that they sold "Crioristal", today Peter Mikolaiovich mentioned it for 4 billion dollars and sold it for 24 dollars in the new government!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u171	Yuri Vitaliyovich, I ask again, you are the minister, you should use the exact categories. We have a General. We don't have a general grave. Call it your word. Please. It is, I think, offensive and inappropriate to say such things to the minister. Please, Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u173	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u174	Yuri Vitaliovich! Jaroslav Suhi. I would ask you, you know, you're kind of prejudiced. There's nothing to talk about about a draft decision. You're acting like you already know you've got sticks in your hands and you're going to beat the drums in a revolutionary way. I have specific questions for you. First. When will you finally name the community name of those Ukrainian national deputies who, according to you, were transported to Ukraine by the President of Ukraine? The second question. Which one of the Ukrainian national deputies from the BUT faction, you say, has something to do with Colonel Yerohin's murder? And the third question. I didn't realize what peaceful coexistence was all about, and what two systems are there? What did you expect? What are two systems in society? Three short questions. Please, don't be hysterical.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u175	Mr. Dry, of course I'm hysterical, because I didn't run on factions, so I did. I always have a stable answer to questions, and more to you, which I know and remember very well. I mean, right away, you're very wrong, I never blamed the BUT faction and specifically the MP, nowhere did I call a faction or a deputy's name. I'm nowhere. I mean, I didn't personally call the factions and the last names! All of this was done exclusively by journalists and this is their right to a version, but I'm saying that one of the working versions of the investigation of this murder could be involved, according to operational data, with one of the Ukrainian national deputies. Second position. As soon as you've heard, Mr. Jaroslav, what I'm saying is that, according to another working version, two other national MPs, I'll tell you directly, from another political camp, they may be involved in ordering the murder of the leader of the Azov Navy. But these are just versions, and I never called any specific names or factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u176	School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u177	Thank you. I'm sorry, let me ask you a question. Dear Yuri Vitaliovich. I'm concerned -- I'm a representative of Lviv, despite the fact that we don't have one-maned districts anymore, but still -- a little tense situation in Lviv, the murders took place, the famous entrepreneur Bogdan Datsko, the famous glass-glass factory, and I'm hoping that the case will be brought to an end, but, you know, it's a bit of a concern to the Ukrainian and the lion business. In particular, it is so common to think in Lviv, that when power changes, power changes, and if those things that were previously resolved by the word are now decided by a gun, unfortunately. And I'd like the police to put a clear end to all of this. How are these matters progressing, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u178	Thank you, Andrew. Actually, that's a very serious question. And it's not just these tragic incidents in Lviv, it's about a couple of, like, two dozen shootings by business leaders that have happened recently in Ukraine. I want to point out that the number of murders has been decreasing for the second year in a row. Also, the number of hit-and-runs does not increase significantly, literally on a case-by-case basis. For the first time, however, these criminal attacks have massed into the hands of business leaders. I associate this with the fact that today a certain atmosphere in society has changed. After one of the Crimean Autonomy deputies, who is suspected of leading a criminal organized group that has spilled blood in the 1990s, was completely cynically released and not detained here by the employees, and, in fact, by the heads of the Attorney General's Office, someone in the shadow structures apparently realized that the gun could now solve matters, because everything that Lucenko said and did for 1.5 years, when the shooting had virtually stopped, the killings had dropped by 17% that year as never before. This is 300 souls saved in Ukraine. Now they've obviously come to realize that there are forces above Lucenka and they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u179	Yuri Vitaliyovich, after you were no longer a deputy, set the rules here so, a minute-question, a minute-answer. And you don't know that. Please. No, you still have Kirilenko asking questions, instead of Viziewski. It's not a line, is it? Kirilenko. Viacheslav Kirilenko, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u180	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, after you spoke, you understood the nature of the attacks that have taken place on you for about six months. You have made it clear to the public, to all objective deputies, that the customers of this issue are sitting here in the hall. You named them after your father and we don't need a last name. We know these names very well. And they don't even ask for a replica, you see. That's why they're the main reason, and because of the facts that were presented in the paper, so no one is looking at the comments given on the charges. And here, in the face of the charges, it's said that it's wrong to check with the Attorney General's Office, as determined by the wrong court, that the facts have not been confirmed, that the test has not been confirmed. And so in most of the questions that you're asked. So there's no subject to address this issue. So, really, someone's afraid that you and not just you, you're gonna take some sticks and start beating the drum. We don't start, we stand for the democratic minister of internal affairs in this office. I wish you success, as do the entire faction of “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u181	You can understand that's not a question, right? Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u182	Mr. Viacheslav, I'm still going to try and answer Alexander Alexanderovich, which is very brief. I want to correct Mr. Deputy in just one, not, "in practice, all dismissed," and all the charges that have been made in the publications have been corrected today either by the Attorney General's Office or by the courts. The conclusion is very simple: the initiators in their reports show the old Russian phrase: “You are to blame only for what I want to eat.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u183	Well, I guess everyone else knows. They said, “And into the dark forest is the lamb of the oxen.” But in this case, that's not what this is about. The paper has an impact on society. So we need an answer to what people feel. They're not happy with the police today. Because it would be strange if they were satisfied, I think. And let's take this more seriously. Karpuk asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u184	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Mr. Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for the courage with which you have worked in this office during these years. Even by the way in this room, you're so determined to take it off, we understand that. And the work of the commission was very fast, not even after the publication in the paper, although the decision was based on the publication, but on other materials. But you've managed to change people's attitudes, you've got confidence in the militia. How far do you think you've managed to change the very faith of the simplest militiamen in you as a minister, in the power system? Can we in Ukraine, in fact, have a militia in the village while providing materially to a respected man who solves many problems and depends much on him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u185	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this is the most painful question. The fact is that all the investigations that many members of the Supreme Council have been seized by these investigations have forgotten that the budget is being resolved today. So the orange powers that are so unloved in the blue part of the hall have added 2.5 times the salary to the militia. Two and a half times. And I would very much ask you, at least add, in this budget, at least half of it, and the police will feel protected by you, the honourable peoples. Take it off, check it out, but don't forget: 300,000 people, 220,000 of them in the pursuits are protecting all of you. And today we need to fight not the police, but if we want to, Lucenk, but not to destroy a system that is the backbone of statehood. We need to think of those who are now under siege, those who are on patrol today, those who are ensuring our peace. So I would very much ask that the relevant committees, in addition to keeping a close eye on my actions, help with laws, budgets, good words, and correct criticism. We're ready for this. I'm sure together we can change our attitude for the better. And one thing. According to the survey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u186	Miroshenko's talking. One last question. Yuri Vitaliovich, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u187	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to ask you. I'm here, please look. I'd like to ask you some professional questions, because I'm a representative of the Justice Committee. Recently, you mentioned, there was an appeal court in Kiev, which found you innocent, although the court of the first instance had just taken a rebuttal decision. Please tell me, before all of us, have you or anyone else put pressure on this court of appeal? That's the first question. The second question. Please tell me, what's the complication in internal affairs right now with human resources? And why? Question three. Is it not a clear order from the IMF not to release people who would like to write reports, but they are not allowed to do so? And you promised 2.5 times the salary of the IMF. Did you do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u188	Thank you. The last question I'm going to answer is, I didn't promise, and I didn't, but it's a fact. Thank you very much to the national MPs of the past, and to the leaders of the previous governments, who have actually led to a 2.5-fold increase in the income of a military militiaman. An example. The PPS employee had 350 bracelets at the beginning of last year, now in order of 700. Next, everyone walks through the trees, as you understand. As far as the court is concerned. I learned about the court’s decision, frankly, unexpectedly to myself, and did not think that he would consider the matter so quickly. I thank him so much for doing this so quickly, for society knows the truth today. To draw me to corruption, in which it is written, with no personal interest, it is a know-how cave trial, but this judge is specific, she once in a day made three decisions in a dispute over Dynamo-Kyiv. I'm not mad at her, let her be rich with all society. It's about the complexity. Incomprehension in the militia is what it's always been, 10 to 12 percent depending on the service. It's a transient phenomenon. Last one on the release application. In fact, many people have written, ready to write a release application if you, honourable national deputies, accept a budget that envisions a deterioration in pension insurance. Today we're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u189	Thank you, sit down, please. One faction at a time, please write down who wants to speak. It's a recording. From the beginning, I announced the rules, and you didn't object. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u190	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, now a verse has been recited from this rostrum, and Alexander Alexandrovich has continued this verse.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u191	Krilov went on, not me, I just said it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u192	I understand. I'd like to put just as briefly within the regulations the poetry of the famous Russian poet is about the police. He wrote: “The essence of an oath in police form is not forgotten. Think of what it should be like if people look at it from one side to another and judge the law of the whole country.” It's the ideal of the militia. We'd like to have that militia. There is no Ukraine, and there is probably no country in the world. Society has the right to know the truth about its militia. But I repeat, it's the truth. And what's organized today in the session room, instead of helping the militia both in personnel and in material and technical security, is we're trying to frame our own minister, who's part of the coalition government of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted the inadequacy of putting this issue on the Committee on Law Enforcement. Mr. Kushnarov, as the author of the bill, promised a word or a point where the Minister was removed from office while the commission was working, to exclude and in such a case the committee supported the draft ruling. This was not done. On the contrary, yesterday Mr. Sovkovic, as the chairman of the commission, was the author of the project’s decision to continue the work of the commission until six months later. Vladimir Leonidovich, in order to read an article from September 8th in the newspaper “2000 thousand”, another militia takes 5-7 minutes, took you 15 minutes to get the previous report or the previous report. Respectful colleagues, who are concerned, are likely about the execution of the minister. I want to thank the Minister from our Ukraine faction, tell you, and you have to feel it, the Ukrainian police have gotten better, the rule of law in the state has gotten better, let's help the militia together and let Mr. Lucenko work and continue in his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u193	Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u194	Bolderev, “Region” faction. I often drive a car in Crimea, I have a Crimea fortification from a faction, so once Lucenko became minister, the GAI workers really stopped taking bribes. But it didn't last long. Now the bribes are again taken, perhaps the minister does not know, again, unfortunately. But if you don't show it, if you don't show it, they do. But that's not what I'm talking about. During the orange revolution in Maidan, where the once grateful Kievyas demolished the monument of Stolypina, then demolished the next monument, the tradition we have is, well, only two people, only two people, called on citizens to disobey the authorities, to block public buildings and buildings, to seize Postamp, airports, these two then, from the parliament of the previous assembly, got into the administration of the country and the Ministry of the Interior. These were Julia Vladimirovna and our hero today, Mr. Lucenko. There are no records of these statements on Maidan in any of the millions of copies. Many of the citizens of our country. Gentlemen, who did we make Minister? A revolutionary who called on citizens to destroy a State, a terminator who said he was coming to the militia to destroy it. If he had really succeeded in working in the Ministry of the Interior, in making the police work radically, you and I would have seen it quite differently in other ways. And what he's saying is that he's entering some sort of inside-of-the-shut-up thing that's going on in our society as a whole, yes, of course, on the job. But, so little, if he's already handing 50 guns to the deputies of the current party, I'd like to know that these deputies are walking here, in the hall, with guns? So during the next fight, they're gonna start shooting here? Our view is clear: the revolutionary does not belong in an organ that must be conservative and act to preserve the State. That's why I think a revolutionary is a revolutionary thing. Let him go and lead the new party with Catherinechuk, as you plan, and call again for a new revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u195	It's not about you. He did not say, “National Deputy Catherinechuk”, that is what he said about another. Please, Simonenko instead of Kravchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u196	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. First. Minister Lucenko has been working as Minister since January 2005. He has been working as a minister in the anti-crisis government since mid-August. And all of his activities that we're talking about, she's analyzing the period of orange, and I'm not going to say anything anymore. Therefore, in this situation, the orange team had power, the vertical power, and I want us to analyse, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, all ministers and all local authorities. They changed all the governors from the area to the area. So in this situation, an orange team headed by a minister, what was he supposed to do? Order in the Ministry and throughout the structure. And now I'm talking to the voters. Dear voters, listening to us today, you are certainly on the side of someone who represents their interests. And I want you to turn to yourself right now and ask. Your precinct is protecting your interests now? What changed in the militia's paradise, did they stop covering for the bandits? Are you today, respected peasants, bringing in normal products for sale, or are there the same law enforcement officials, along with the relevant structures, restricting you? Dear drivers, not the ones with the "O" numbers for especially dangerous drivers, but the ones with the normal numbers when you're stopped, what do the GAI staff do with you? Dear colleagues, by the way, there is another issue to consider. The adventure that accompanied the orange team, why did this adventure come about? Because a field commander is by nature an anarchist and partisan. It's by nature an anarchist! That's what this anarchist's leading to. I want to look into these thousands of Ukrainian mothers who lost their children in traffic accidents. Who canceled the DAI? Who gave drunks the opportunity to drive? President Yushchenko and Minister Lucenko. From this rostrum, there was talk of the need to abolish the State's auto-inspection. We got a thousand people killed as soon as they canceled it. So I want to say again, now, about this whole situation, that the danger is what Lucenko said. He collects the compromise, says it, blackmails the compromise, but does not take any action. It's a tragedy for a whole society. Indeed, the law enforcement system has become a monster of corruption and organized gangs. In conclusion, I would like to propose the following. There's another danger. Pay attention. He laid one hand on the President of Our Ukraine and placed his second hand on Julia Vladimirovna's heart. You know, when you put your hands in different places, you have to think about where your head is. I want us to use common sense, sound judgment today and to understand that the anti-crisis coalition and society expect us to make peace in the country. The law enforcement agencies must be assessed in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u197	Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Respectable TV setters, radio audiences! I wanted to talk about one thing in my speech, but I had to distract myself a little. I am addressing our anti-crisis coalition. But today the problem of the Ministry of the Interior is being discussed. But what does Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko have to do with this problem? Men, well, aren't you so afraid of her that every time you're comfortable and uncomfortable, you try to touch her, so to speak, not very pleasant to her face. You're men, aren't you? Now, Alexander Alexandrovich, in fact. I'm trying to put myself in a place that looks at us people's deputies and listens. What question do they ask themselves? What's going on in the upper room? Are the people's deputies really concerned about the situation in the Ministry of the Interior? No, it's just a political show today called Political Accounts. Is that not understandable? Both the newspaper and your arguments on the one hand and on the other. Mr. Baldarev is speaking, a literate national MP. And he says to the entire room: “The revolutionary cannot be a minister of the interior”. Well, let's make the businessmen the Minister of the Interior, more and better the Ministry of the Interior. Well, let's think about what we're talking about, what we're calling for. It's a pretzel. Second. I want to say that there are really problems at work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u199	Valentin Sergeyevich, just away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u200	Okay. It's a problem, really. The problems in the Ministry of the Interior, the work of law enforcement agencies, are very great. Our faction is very concerned that a number of serious terrorist acts have recently been carried out against members of our party until the murder. I myself took this procedure in 2002 in the famous Donetsk region, in the famous town of Slavjansk, where an attempt was made on me, the former people's deputies know that I was barely alive. I know that this case is still ongoing and will not be completed, although the contractors are known. But what's the point? This is, gentlemen, the Anti-Cristian Bliss. This is your candidacy. You can't do such a dishonest thing. You appointed Lucenko, and now you're beating him up, and you're calling us to do it. We will not participate in this Sabbath. If we vote against it, it is only against the resignation of the entire Government of Mr. Yanukovic. For, for, for, for,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been discussed. I'm asking for your attention! May I have your attention, please? Stepan Stepanovich, please wait! You will receive a reply after you have completed your consideration of the question. Please! Dear colleagues, a preliminary report is being considered today on the decision of the Supreme Council, not on the coalition. So I would like to point out that the previous report was due by December 1. And finally, there's a decision that I'm going to quote to you that doesn't come up with any doubt in the television audience. It was written to define the term of the commission two months from the time the decision was taken, i.e. by the new year, to listen to the previous report by December 1st, to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers for the period of the commission's activities to be suspended and so on, that's what the discussion was, accepted. And so on. So that there is no wish to doubt that this is a legitimate decision. The other one. The discussion took place, and the questions, the answers, I think, provide an opportunity to understand that there are shortcomings in police work, and, on the other hand, there are some changes that need to be taken into account, because they are obviously dictated by some objective circumstances. However, for example, I'm not like the headman, but as a citizen, it just feels like when the commission does the analysis, you have to take systemic things, go deeper into the essence of the subject. And the police or the minister, when they report or speak on a particular matter, should move away from political, emotional, and only those things that fall within the law. Legal standards. Not to mention the hints, the fact that someone's involved in something and calling it what they call their father. You better invite someone who is “calling after your father” and talk to him there, according to the law. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, there is no doubt that the Ministry’s activities need not be politicized. We realize that this activity is in itself. It's a political burden, but it shouldn't come out of the minister's mouth. I'd like anyone not to be in this position to understand. You have a draft ruling on your hands, which is made by a group of national deputies. This is about taking information to the public and asking the Prime Minister to release the minister. Nevertheless, after a discussion that has already taken place, I am obliged to put this order to the vote. I'll put her to the vote. Please. [[14:01:10]] For 232 I'm asking for your attention! Calm down! The factions, please. “Regions” – 186, “Block of Timoshenko” – 18, “Our Ukraine” – 2, “SPU – 1, Communists – 21, “non-fractional” – 4. There's a break until 4:00. The morning session is closed. Break until 4:00.
