ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament's plenary work is continuing. I'm asking you to announce in the hall so you can come to the hall. Please enable the "Council" system. A roll call is being made. [[16:03:38]] 442 national deputies registered with cards. The evening session shall be declared open. You know that the two factions' breaks asked for time to consult to express their position on what had led us to different sides in the voting of the draft law, which has already been discussed – the Holodomor of 32-33 years in Ukraine. And the two factions asked for the people’s deputy Sergey Golovatius to comment on these consultations. I give him my word. Please speak for five minutes. Oh, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! During the break, we discussed carefully, deeply, and thoroughly the proposals made by the MP of the Party of the Regions by the national MP Kushnar. Its two proposals were to define the concept of “genocide” in an article of the first law. The second is to delete the word “no” in the article. So this is our position. Regarding the definition of the term “genocide”. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council. Not “sadly” but, in principle, the Supreme Council cannot take such action, it has no right to do so, since the definition of “genocide” as a legal category is contained in the 48th Geneva Convention. It's regulation, detailed. Ukraine is a party to this convention, and it cannot unilaterally define this legal category, which is a legal concept of international criminal law. Either she should step out of this convention and give her own interpretation, or she should stay as she is. That is why we cannot accept this offer. Second, it was suggested that there should be a reference to the peoples of the Soviet Union, and we in search of compromise, reconciliation, we took this idea into account, it is contained in the last paragraph of the preamble, which refers to the actions of the totalitarian repressive steel regime aimed at the mass destruction of part of the Ukrainian and other peoples of the former Soviet Union. And thirdly, the word “banned”. We've also found, gone for reconciliation and compromise, we've decided, we're proposing to replace the word "banned" with the fact that it's an illegal act, a qualification, a legal qualification of such wrongfulness. We know that in more than 10 countries in Europe, such action is prohibited. Criminal responsibility established. And we believe that, under these circumstances, the Ukrainian people in the person of Ukrainians, Russians and others, the citizens of the country who make up the Ukrainian people in the definition that is in the Constitution, which is in the definition of this law, are no less worthy of public objections to this genocide to be as unlawful as public objections to the Holocaust. The Ukrainian people are no worse off than the Jewish people. The whole world accepts the ban and allows it to do so. And in countries of liberal democracy, this is not considered to be a forbidden act or interference with personal rights and freedoms. And that's why we use the legal term that such an action is illegal, away from the word “banned”. This shows that our nation is humane in this regard. So I ask you to support that version of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u4	I ask you to support the bill that is being passed, as amended by Alexander Moroz and the amendments that have been agreed upon with respect to Deputy Kushnarov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u5	Let's get this straight. May I have your attention, please? In other words: You have been handed over a project under the heading “Implemented by the President of Ukraine as amended by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Frost and others”. Would you like to make a statement? Sign up for a motive statement. Please, five minutes. And let's put it this way: I'm going to finish my opinion and then you're going to make a statement. Okay? That's it. In this project, about which we found agreement from the very morning, there are those refinements and editorial changes that I prepared yesterday, which were distributed in the morning. Today, they are already shown in one text of this abbreviated law. Furthermore, the discussion that led to a break from some, supporters of some formulations, others, during lengthy consultations was expressed in the fact that the found substantively correct compromise in the second article of this draft law, and the content of the definition of genocide as represented by MPs from the Party of Regions in the preamble, which politically assesses this phenomenon, without violating the Constitution, by which documents of international law ratified and adopted, or participating in by Ukraine, are norms of domestic law. Thus we cannot deviate from these requirements. There have also been changes in the standards that apply to the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers, and they have been limited in the past and have been defined by law as the status and role of the Institute of Memory, now referring to the function of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the President's representative, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnowsky, supported all these changes. In fact, this is, in my opinion, an exceptional limit to compromise on either side and we should vote on this law, I repeat my conclusion. Most of them. I'm counting on it. However, you would like to raise another question on the basis of the vote. Can I have two minutes, please? One minute, please, five minutes. You can say it from every faction. Sign up. Peter Stepanovich? Please. Oh, I've already said that before the break. Once again, the cards of the deputies Lukyanenka, King, Rybeka, Bondarenko, and Stretovich do not take part. Well, I'm in control of it. And Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Ah, Stretovich is sitting, look. Right, right. They take to be like those who no longer vote. Yeah. Please. The King? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And no one's ever talked about you. Please, who wants to say it in a minute? Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u6	My fellow Members, I think we have a unique opportunity today to demonstrate to the Ukrainians, above all, that there is a Parliament in Ukraine, because I do not want the political forces to remain here and to emphasize the lack of historical memory and the historical outlook of our people. For our political power, this is just as much a compromise as we can make. And in order for us to really be the only Ukrainian Parliament, we will vote in favour of this edited text. And I would like to tell all my fellow Members in our Parliament that, dear friends, do not measure citizenship. My associate and colleague James Maze, who was of Indian origin, did so much for Ukraine that his Ukrainian heart weighs more than many passports from Ukrainian politicians. That's why he needs to be remembered, what he started doing and supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u7	Mikola Volodymyrovich, I think you get your point, don't you? Please, Poljanczich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the 1932-1933 famine is a genocide of the Ukrainian people. But today, in the event of a positive vote, the Ukrainian Parliament is demonstrating its respect for all the peoples of the former USSR, who have also been persecuted by the Stalinese criminal Communist regime, which has certainly touched all nations, not just Ukrainian. For this reason, there are two references to the compromise bill and they are, in my opinion, sufficient and emphasize the respect of the Ukrainian people for others. And in general, I think that if he votes four factions out of five today to acknowledge famine as genocide, he will be the beginning of the history of real Ukrainian parliamentaryism, when all the votes are based on the national interests of Ukraine. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u10	Yes, from “Regions, ” who will take the word? Do you want to do it in a row? Well, please, Leapina speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u11	Please pass the word to Mikola Grigorovich Kulchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, the concept of the genocide of the Ukrainian people is absolutely motivated. In the 32nd year, in the 1930s, there were over 80% of Ukrainians living in Ukrainian villages, but there were Ukrainian Jews and Russians living in these villages, or even non-Ukrainized ones, and they were also destroyed by the red Kremlin regime. I want every deputy today to read Vasil Barca's book "The Yellow Prince" and survive on a personal level, on an emotional level, that huge tragedy, the pain that millions of Ukrainian peasants have experienced. I ask you to vote in favour of the agreed amendment of Alexander Moroz. And we will be glorified in the ages, in the ages, everyone who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u13	Please calm down. Chubarov's talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe that the speech of the colleague of the Chief was so motivated that each one of us can determine his own conscience. And I would particularly like to draw your attention to the legal decision in paragraph 2 of the draft, which states that denial of hunger is illegal. Such a rule would make it impossible for political freaks to abuse the memory of millions of victims of the totalitarian regime. Last week this was the case with one of the Ukrainian politicians who was sitting in this room who claimed that the Crimean Tatars had, he said, a monument to Stalin for sending them out of Crimea saved their lives. Thus, on his march, he abused the memory of the tens of thousands of Crimean Tatars on the fronts of World War II, and they also protected the Fatherland, like everyone else. So I think by introducing these standards we're going to put these bastards in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u15	The word has, as always, a valid and tolerant Kendzer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u16	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I'm really going to be very good and tolerant. You know, in a problem like hunger, compromises and compromises on, as it were, some decline in the relevance of this problem, I think, it's embarrassing. But once such a parliament, and we made such a compromise, and thank God. I'd like to know if the Communists would vote against the draft law. Because in this version that we are holding in our hands today, somehow shyly Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, I say very tolerantly, the definition of “condemning the criminal acts of the totalitarian regime of the USSR” has been shyly rejected. Not a totalitarian communist regime. We've thrown out the notion of Communist regime. But bad luck with him. Only the Communists would vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u17	Thank you. I beg you, there was no such word from the President in the original. You're the one who invented it instead of the President. I would ask you not to correct the President. You have no right to do that, like anyone else. Who wants to speak from the Communists? Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, yes, indeed, I support the need to become a Ukrainian Parliament and find out why more than 11 million Ukrainian citizens died in the years of independence. Why 5 million decreases in the population of Ukraine? Why four waves of immigration came from Ukraine. A nation of its own flees from its homeland. This is also, let's say, the problem of Parliament. It's different. We have once made a political decision on the basis of which Yushchenko became President. And today we have orange problems and a very sick society, so let's say, because of a dangerous disease like orange, I don't say what a disease is anymore. So I would like to propose once again, Alexander Alexanderovich, firstly, to put the Presidential Project to the vote. I don't see the President's signature here on what you filed. And we have to put what we've made according to the rules. Next. Put the factions of the Party of the Regions, if it doesn't go through this first one, and then if none of them does, then let the committees work together, and the President brings in a completely different one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u19	From the “Regions, ” will anyone speak? Vasil Alexiyovich, please. Acid. Who? Kushnarov, I'm sorry, Eugene Petrovich, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, before lunch, we seemed to find a way to compromise in this room, and then we had the opportunity to open the way to compromise in our society. Regrettably, all previous arrangements during the negotiations have been ruined and we are again trying to impose only the orange - colored rating in this room today. In this situation, the Party of Regions has to insist on voting in the first reading of our draft law, introduced by a group of MPs from the Party of Regions. We won't vote for the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u21	From the Socialists, who will act? I guess I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! During the long break, I think we've managed to find a sufficiently compromising solution that allows us to present our position in a strong and authoritative way, that is, a convincing number of votes. Today, there is every reason to say that in a consolidated vote for the bill proposed by Alexander Alexander Moroz, we have the opportunity to avoid any further use of this tragic topic, as speculative, as one that works in a split, which brings divisions into the minds of our citizens, brings divisions into this room. Of course, both the representatives of one half of Parliament and another may comment on the fact that they did not fully reflect their position, their viewpoint. But that is the wisdom of Parliament and the value of its consolidated position, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u23	Let him finish. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u24	This is the wisdom of Parliament to demonstrate, when it comes to mutual concessions, that we reflect the will of the people. I propose to support the bill proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u25	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u26	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Deputies! Indeed, the conversations that were held with Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov and Alexander Alexandrovich led us to write a completely literate, legal and literary law. All the comments given by the Party of the Regions are taken into account. These observations were placed in a manner consistent with legal practice and legal laws. And that's why I want to go to the Party of Regions with a huge request: Dear friends, we've done it all the way you wanted, and it's done absolutely literately. And so I ask you, a certain fate of truth must be in this room. I thank Alexander Alexander Frost very much for the very qualified amendments to the law I passed on behalf of the President. They improved the law, made it accessible to all the Ukrainian people. And I'm asking you, I'm asking you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u27	Take it easy. I'm going to put it to a vote. Let's define by sequence. The representatives of the Party of the Regions insist that they vote. But you have to do it first. Please don't give me a hint. I know the rules. But according to the procedure, we have to put the Presidential option to the vote first. We can be sure that neither this nor that will produce enough votes. So I ask you again, calm down, please! You're distracting me, I can't hear myself! Again! But I'll put it to a vote, I said don't vote! So I would ask, after all, to consider a compromise that can bring everyone together. We voted the inclusion issue – 232 or the vote. [[I don't remember.]] Please calm down. So I put to the vote first the President's version of that, without any change as he was. Please. [[16:25:17]] For-198 There's not enough voices. I'm putting to the vote a project from the Party of Regions that's been submitted for consideration and you have. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[16:25:43]] For 193 193 votes, not enough. So I'm betting on a vote that the President agrees with, basically, is given to all of you with amendments that were the result of a discussion that takes into account the position of both sides. And please, forcefully please vote on this bill, you will resolve the matter as it should be. I'm putting 2470-D to the vote. And in general, right away. Please. [[16:26:32]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u28	Please, by the factions. Region Party – 2, Block Timoshenko – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 79, SPI – 30, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 4. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Sign up for the factions, please. Please sign in. Five minutes. Please, Korz, “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u29	Vitaly Corge, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. I give the word to Yavorovsky Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u30	Yavorowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u31	Dear Ukrainian people! You've just had a historic moment: you've got your memory back. With great debates, with great internal and external struggles, but, folks, your story is being restored. I am grateful to the Block of Our Ukraine, I am grateful to the faction of the Socialists, I am grateful as a person as a citizen of the Block of July Timoshenko for supporting this beautiful, just bill. I'm sure it's a beautiful page in our thighs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u32	Please, Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u33	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Now I would like to emphasize that the Socialist Party of Ukraine has been and remains a consistent party that protects and protects the interests of the Ukrainian people. Three years ago, it was our very own party that took the initiative to speak on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations with a request to acknowledge the tragedy of Holodomor in 1932-1933 as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. Today, the Supreme Council, by its consolidated vote, confirmed that it was an act of genocide that occurred in the 1930s that destroyed Ukrainian agriculture. And I think everyone today understands the history of the moment. But we need to get to work. Therefore, our next steps should be devoted to raising the eco.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u34	Samylik passes the word Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u35	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First of all, I would like to draw your attention, Adam Ivanovich, to you as chairman now, to the fact that Alexander Alexandrovich has failed to fulfil the mandate of the Supreme Council to block the cards of those deputies who are not in the hall. And with the cards Lukyanenko voted, Timoshenko, Immortal, Rybek, Bondarenko voted in favour of the decision. We believe that, in this case, Alexander Alexandrovich did not intentionally do so. And the secretariat then I propose who is in charge of this matter should be dismissed. There was also a decision in the secretariat that responded to the electronic I now ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to demand that this person be dismissed because the Supreme Council's decision has not been implemented is first. Secondly, the question is, Adam Ivanovich, that this decision can only be made on first reading. Because the Communist faction has serious comments and our regulatory capacity has been violated, requirements for us to amend the Law. We have passed the Law, not the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u36	Please, Humenjuk, our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u37	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Yushchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u38	Peter Yushchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u39	Peter Yushchenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear national MPs, imagine such a picture, we live in a visible world, there are tens of millions of our fellow countrymen in the invisible world, tens of millions of unsuspecting souls who are looking at us and waiting for our recognition and our prayer. Our prayer, which is heard here, in our prayers, in our mosques, gives them everlasting life. If they hear this prayer, they pray from us there. But their prayer is stronger than ours because they are before a god. Today we have done a wonderful thing. It was a great feat. Ukraine will have a future because they will pray for us, for our children. Boomerang, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u40	Yuri Baldiriev, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u41	I would like to draw the attention of all the deputies present in the Chamber that we have once again demonstrated inconsistencies in our actions and thoughts. The point is that we have only considered one aspect of the activities of the Stalin regime. But it was quite forgotten that it was Stalin, who was headed by the Soviet Union, had joined the modern territory of Ukraine in Western areas such as Lvivsko, Ternopolska, Ivano-Frankovsky, Volinska and so on. And so Stalin is an ambitious figure, Stalin is a figure that has both bright and dark sides. If we condemn Stalin as a whole, might it be worth considering a new, legitimate entry into Ukraine of those areas that have been joined as a result of a collusion with the Hitler regime?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u42	Yes, respectable colleagues exchanged their thoughts. For comments on the blocking of cards by national MPs. No Secretariat can technically do that. You can only lock the card by walking up and pulling the card out of the nest where it is. Of course, this is not a function of the Secretariat. I mean, it's only possible to record what was recorded by those who said there wasn't a deputy, and he was voting. In terms of what was adopted in general, there was a denial, and in terms of what other cards were voting, there is a 48th article of the Rules. Please have a purpose – you can use it for two days and submit it to the Head of the Supreme Council for a violation of the Rules in the adoption of the law. He will be directed to those to whom it is due. Let's move on to ratification issues. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport is under consideration. Registration number 0045. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Sergienko Leonid Grigorovich. Please. Get ready from the Committee of Post-its.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u43	Honorable National MPs. Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on International Road Transport has been developed with a view to implementing the relevant internal and state procedures necessary to achieve the validity of the said agreement, which has been made with a view to promoting economic, commercial relations, as well as to facilitating the transport of passengers by road between the two countries and transit through their territories. Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport signed in Sarajevo on the seventh year of 2006. Following the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on International Road Transport, the said agreement under article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine becomes part of national legislation. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement, its position will be extended to international passenger and freight transport by means of vehicles registered in one of the contracting parties in Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 17 of the Agreement provides that each Contracting Party shall notify the diplomatic channels of the other Contracting Party of the implementation of the internal state procedures necessary to obtain the validity of the Agreement. 30 days after receiving the last such notice, the contract becomes effective. According to section “e” of section 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, articles 1 and 19 of the Ukrainian Law “On the System of Taxation” and the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The agreement is consistent with the world practice of making international agreements in the field of road transport and provides for cooperation at the intergovernmental level. In accordance with article 17, a treaty will be concluded on an indefinite period of six months from the date on which one of the contracting parties will inform the other of its wish to denounce it by means of diplomatic channels. The agreement deals with a wide range of issues related to the transport of vehicles carrying passengers and cargo between Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as transit transport through the territories of those States. The agreement also provides for effective mechanisms for coordinating the activities of the national authorities of Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina aimed at the development and functioning of road transport. In particular, article 12, paragraph 1, of the Agreement states that passenger and freight vehicles registered in the territory of one of the contracting parties and temporarily entering the territory of another contracting party on a dream parity are exempt from the payment of taxes, duties, and other congregations associated with the possession or use of means of transport in that territory. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on International Road Transport will provide a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral international relations between Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the development of cooperation in the field of road transport, tourism, business relations, the further development of the automotive sector of Ukraine, and the increasing competitiveness of domestic motorists. In connection with this proposal, the honourable people’s deputies are invited to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u44	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign in. Yes, please, five minutes. Alexandrovska. The widow of Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u45	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Leonide Grigorovich, our faction supports the ratification of this bill, will contribute to expanding trade and economic ties with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Would you call the number of freight transport, passenger transport, to know, at least, a little bit about our respective relations in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u46	Thank you for asking. The thing is, we're only ratifying the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, we have statistics on transports that carry out ours, carriers from other countries, and today, without this agreement, cars are forced to dine because we do not have the quotas and permits that countries exchange to carry out these vehicles. Well, here's the big problem, if you take the Republic of Europe as Italy, you don't have a quota today, like 14,000 permits, and you only use a thousand permits on the other side. So today, we are taking more to Europe than Europe to us. This involves bad roads, bad services, and more. That is why we today need to open our cooperation with such countries and to have the statistics that you are asking for today. Today we cannot work with this country because there is no agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u47	Please, Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u48	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. The Ukrainian People's Movement's Party Group, when considering this bill, is proposing to the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u49	Yes, Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u50	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Of course, we are now very excited to accept an amazing document. Those who voted for it must be experiencing tremendous cleansing and a moment of forgiveness. Thank you very much again, colleagues. And that's a question for you. Ukraine has such a geopolitical, geopolitical location that it could actually be somewhere, according to economists, 70-80 percent of our budget could be for transit. I want to ask you as an MP. What does today’s government do? When are we, after all, doing some kind of national program to take advantage of the colossal possibilities that have been sent to us both by nature and by God and all that? When, after all, are we going to have big profits from our geopolitical location?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u51	I'm answering that question. Today, indeed, Ukraine is a transit state and does not use the transit corridors that are today, it is indeed wrong. Today, though, automobiles need major repairs, and we do not have enough services. So today, the Ministry of Transport led by our minister, we've held a series of negotiations on the construction and construction of transit corridors. The road to Kiev will be built, the fifth transit corridor “Chop Lviv” – the road to Kiev. And from Kiev on a parity basis, they had talks with the Russians and a signed agreement, and the car will be between Kiev and Moscow. Thus, this will bring Europe together in a transit corridor. And our job today is this strategic firm called Ukri InterService, which is not privatized, and we're fighting for it today, you know, we're doing both now and now, and whatever. Today we fight for every bit of this land. And we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u52	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u53	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Leonide Grigorovich, I have a question for you as a reporter for this bill and for the Deputy Minister of Transport. Please tell me that now the treaty after our ratification becomes part of the national legislation of Ukraine and I, as the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, are interested in your view of how this bill, the ratification of this agreement, as well as the ratification of other agreements will contribute, and this, in the previous question of the previous speaker, will contribute to positive social consequences, that is, how we will be able to ratify these agreements to make improvements, such as: in the labour market, wage increases, social accounting. That is, is it not simply a ratification in the name of ratification? Whether the Ministry has such figures for today and for the future, this will contribute to improving the material well - being of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u54	Yes, it is. Because this agreement will allow for more work between countries. It's not just a cargo and passenger transport agreement that we don't have permits for today. That's why it's going to increase both those jobs and, in fact, the greater recognition of our country in Europe, because at those meetings where I participated in the Committee of Ministers and other committees today, the attitude towards Ukraine isn't what we wanted to see. That is why we must constantly integrate into Europe economically. I'm not talking about the political component. So, really, these attitudes, when our cars are working on the international market, and I emphasize that we have 80 percent of our cars working in Europe and only 20 of us come from Europe. That's why this is primarily about raising Ukraine's economic potential. So this leads to an increase in jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u55	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Pacheku Sergey Nikonovich, member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u56	Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications at its meeting on November 14, 2006, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on International Road Transport, registration No. 0045 of 18.10.06), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The document aims to promote relations between Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of international road transport and transit. The agreement deals with issues related to the transport of motor vehicles carrying passengers and cargo between these States, as well as transit transport through their territory. An effective mechanism for coordinating national authorities in Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina is envisaged for the development of road transport. The adoption of the bill confirms Ukraine’s agreement on the obligation to comply with the provisions of the agreement and the completion of the internal state procedure by Ukraine regarding the effectiveness of the agreement. The agreement is in line with the world practice of making international agreements in the field of road transport, providing a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the development of cooperation and business relations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus gave a positive assessment of this agreement and is proposed, taking into account the above and the outcome of the committee's deliberations, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the agreement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u57	Yes, thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Nobody insists? Then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport. Registration number 0045. Please vote. [[16:50:45.]] For 386 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the section “In summary procedure”. But to do so, we need to make a decision. I would like to support the proposal that a number of bills that you have planned should be discussed in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:51:21]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is under consideration. [[on the listing of public telecommunications services]] Registration number 2296. Reported by the national deputy of Chukmasov Sergey Alexanderovich. Get ready for Winterfell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Telecommunications. [[on the listing of public telecommunications services]] The regulatory framework for the European Union’s telecommunications legislation was substantially updated in 2002. In particular, a number of legislative acts have been adopted, which aim at promoting competition at the telecommunications level, improving the functioning of internal markets, guaranteeing the basic rights of users not provided by market forces. In particular, Directive 2002/22 of the European Parliament and of the Council on public services has been adopted. To implement article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on telecommunications, paragraph 13.1 of the Ukrainian Integration Programme to the European Union, approved by Presidential Decree 1072/2000 of 14 September 2000 on telecommunications and postal communications, Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 9 December 1999 2238 “On the concept of the development of the link between Ukraine and 2010” with a view to harmonising the legal and regulatory framework, acts of Ukraine in the field of telecommunications, which ensure the effective functioning of the system of regulation in the field of consumer and operator rights”, it is proposed to revise the list of publicly available services contained in article 62 of the Ukrainian Law on telecommunications, taking into account that directive, including that the provision of public services can be provided by any means of radio. Thus, the position of the fixed and mobile operator, which is currently in place, varies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u59	All right, are we done? Thank you. I'm reminding you that reporters also have two minutes. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, we have Zimin Evgen Igorevich, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications discussed at its meeting on 18 October 2006 the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Telecommunications, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Chukmasov, Zdunovski, Registration No. 2296. [[on the listing of public telecommunications services]] The aim of the bill is to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with European Union legislation and further develop competition in the telecommunications market and create a level playing field for all telecommunications operators regardless of the technology they use. The committee has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee found an opportunity to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of Bill No. 2296 as a basis and generally with the following changes. In the proposed amendments to the first section of article 62 of the Law on telecommunications, the first sentence should be supplemented by the words: “Except for such services as are provided with wireless access” and the second sentence should be deleted. According to the committee, adoption in general will guarantee that these changes will remain in this law. These changes are consistent with the drafters of the bill and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The committee is asking for the support of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Short-term procedure. Who "for" is the green button that "against" is the red button. Please sign up for factions. Please, no one is taking the stand. Red-tailed, please, a faction of socialists. Turn on the microphone. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u62	I think this law is very important and necessary today. We discussed it on a faction, and we all unanimously decided to vote in favour and to support this important law for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u63	Thank you. Yegorenko, faction of the Party of Regions. Right. Shall we vote? Then I put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law amending the Law on Telecommunications. [[on the listing of public telecommunications services]] Registration number 2296. [[16:57:53]] For 363 Is there no objection to accepting the whole thing? Yes, then, dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole and with the proposal of a committee, with the proposal of a committee of profile, to complete the first sentence with the words: “except for such services as are provided with wireless access”. And the second sentence is deleted. What was reported to you from the profile committee. Please vote. [[16:58:44]] For 404 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the prevention of unauthorized phone-interviewing]] Registration number 2288. Report to Gusarov Sergey Mikolayovich, please. Get ready, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u64	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Basic Law of Ukraine guarantees every citizen the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations, and privacy. And the state must guarantee that right. Current legislation regulates the issue of telephone communication. Yet these standards were accepted at a time when mobile communication had not yet been widespread. By the end of October 2006, the number of subscribers was 41.5 million. There is now a ban on listening to phone calls and other conversations. Yet, phone calls and mobile phone calls are not the same. By means of mobile communication, we not only talk but also use information of a multifunctional nature. In Ukraine's telecommunications law, the term “phone call” is not used at all. Instead, the term “telecommunity”, “movable”, “mobile connection” is used. That is why the project prohibits the illegal removal of information from the mobile channel. Thus, with a view to bringing effective legislation to modern requirements, avoiding abuse, violating the constitutional right of citizens to privacy and telephone conversations, Bill No. 2288 on amending certain Ukrainian laws to prevent unauthorized telephone conversations. The project envisages amendments and additions to four legislative acts, the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the Ukrainian law on operational and search activities, the police, the order for compensation for damage caused by illegal actions by the authorities of inquiry, the prosecution and the court. The law provides for the continued observance of human rights established by the Constitution of Ukraine, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Exceptions can only be established by the court. Approval of this change will allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u65	Let me finish. Done? Okay. Please sit Sergey Mikolayovich. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Sergey Hussarov faithfully reported on the draft law. The point is that listening to phone calls and other conversations is now required by law to follow a judicial decision. It is proposed that the four laws of Ukraine be amended where these words are used, but the mobile cell phone connection has not yet been used. Thus, the author proposes to clarify that listening to telephones and other conversations by saying “removing information from cellular channels” to all four laws that touch the subject of the draft law. [[mobile]] The committee supported the bill. The main scientific and expert administration also supports the faction “Our Ukraine”, which I represent on the committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who "for" is the green button that "against" is the red button. Please register with the faction. They just signed up for it. Mikola Tomenko, please. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, this is a very serious problem that we support and will vote in favour of this bill. But there's a whole bunch of these, I'd say, procedural or practical questions. Today, it's no secret that we have an enna number of commercial structures that have fairly professional and expensive devices that allow any person who uses a mobile phone in Ukraine to listen. Of course, these commercial structures are not authorized and have no right to do so. In the case of the adoption of the bill in the first reading, it is obvious that we should consider how to regulate the activities of the institutions that have the right to do so by decision of the court. Indeed, after the court’s decision, such an interrogation is motivated, since it is about people who are accused or suspected of what crimes, but it is necessary to understand what the Security Service is doing. We should have an exclusive list of such institutions. And it's appropriate to think about how to deal with these commercial structures that are already doing this illegally. And it's generally known that it's used actively in business, and now in fashion raiding in Ukraine, and in some cases for blackmail or something. So once again, the problem is extremely important. And the problem needs to be settled more systematically, not just explicitly, that we are setting up a standard that was not provided for in the Criminal Code or other legislation before. So you have to think about how this tool works in general, which is used by Ukrainian intelligence to get a conviction or, let's say, to put points above "and" in part, in particular, commercial structures that work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u69	Yes, one of our colleagues can't be without a word, so the widow he's got up to, he's passing on the word Lachko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u70	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I believe that this bill, reported by Mr. Gusarov, must be supported and this is why. Let's think about all the recent history, particularly the presidential election, where there was an opposition candidate and a successful candidate. We know how politicians listen, especially the then candidate for the Presidents of Yushchenka. I've got a friend who works for the U.B.O.P.D. Militia, and they say that they've already gotten to what, for example, Gusarov or Lachka, or Timoshenko, or anyone else, they're taking any number of the person that we're talking to, they're processing an operational search case on this number, they're giving that number, and they're listening to us. I mean, we need to improve extremely hard, and he's Sergey Mikolayovich, he's a general of the militia, he knows what I'm talking about. He's a former U.V.I. officer. How can you listen to a person without even seeking a court order to listen to him? So you need standards to tighten these to make it impossible to listen for political reasons or, for example, order makes one business structure into another business structure. So we need to support the bill, but we also need to take into account these nuances, which I said is that there is an opportunity for the security services today to listen to people without even drawing legal permission on them. So the gaps in legislation allow you to do things like this. We have to remove them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u71	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 2288. [[on the prevention of unauthorized phone-interviewing]] Please vote. [[17:07:41]] For 405 Decision taken. No, it's not. There is a point, and the committee agrees that a little improvement is needed. I think it's going to work fast and we can literally take it all the way to the next plenary week. But there are, well, strictly legal moments, let's let the committee work. There is a bill amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, registration number 2241. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Minister of Justice, reports, prepare for Boris Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your point is to amend article 75 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, which is intended to solve the problem that has arisen due to the fact that in one segment of the work of the executive service with confiscated items, there is still a legally unregulated problem of dealing with insolvent confiscation. We have a question in the law when we work with an arrested property, where we have a debtor whose property has been removed and where there is a extractor, where there is a legal or physical entity to receive the money for the property sold, and if it is not sold, this property may become the property of the retractor or, if he does not want it, the debtor returns. When it comes to confiscated property, when there is no party to which this property can be returned, we are left unregulated. There is only a Ukrainian state and there is no entity that can take possession of this property. So the insolvent property that the diggers can hear and can't find their own realisation needs to be decided so that we can either conduct special auctions with reduced sales price or conduct shares on transfer of this property to the humanitarian institutions. The project that you're given, you see, is supposed to be a children's facility, a medical facility, a penal system. That is, where this property can be used to some extent. In case it's impossible to dispose of this property then, if it doesn't have the necessary consumer qualities that can satisfy any category of Ukrainian citizens. That's the whole point of this project that's proposed for adoption. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u73	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Bespaly Boris Jakovic, deputy head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy supports this bill, but only in the first reading. Why does he support you? Because the problem discussed by the minister of justice is real. That is, the realisation of property that was confiscated and difficult to implement. Why the first reading? Since the bill is proposed, it has some flaws. For example, in the first part, it is proposed to be implemented either through commercial exchanges or on commercial terms. And there are many questions. We all remember selling 12 chairs in the famous novel of Ilf and Petrov under commission because of commercial enterprises. And there may be abuse. In the second part, for example, when the property is passed on to the humanitarian institutions, the minister rightly called the orphanages where children are deprived of parental care. But in the first row, there's something about a humanitarian institution like free handing over to ministries and other central executives. I don't think that's exactly what we need. I think it should really be passed on to those institutions that the minister called, not those that he spoke first and of which he spoke shyly. There are observations of serious and scientific expertise. Therefore, the main problem, perhaps not even in this case, is that the missing person who is speaking and defending the interests of the State, such as the State Property Fund, where the property interests of the State are concerned, and in this part the enforcement legislation needs to be finalized, but it will probably already be the subject of other bills. And this bill is suggested by the committee in the first reading, but not in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u75	Thank you. Yes, please, against me. Green, red faction buttons. Yes, please, Easy, get Alexey ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, Oleg Lazko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Indeed, the problem in the bill, the implementation of property that is not required or cannot be sold for some time, needs to be addressed. But the bill proposed for our consideration is extremely imperfect. As a colleague of Bespallius has already said, it is proposed to sell unsold property to all ministries, departments, departments, children’s homes, and so forth. I mean, in order to avoid corruption in this regard, and so that we don't have ministries or departments in front of children's homes or boarding schools, we need to build order. I mean, first of all the organizations that need this help, really, and then last of all the ministries and departments that are still there to support them. Next. Property is offered to be transferred to commercial markets and businesses. Again, the bill does not provide for a mechanism for this transmission. I mean, how it's going to be passed on, who's going to determine which employee in Ministit, or in the state executive service, who's going to determine which stock market, or which company is going to hand it over to. Remember, once, I think, if I don't remember, the State Tax Administration had a Fund Professional that sold confiscated property. And we all remember the scandals related to the realisation of property through this “Professional” fund. Thus, in order to avoid similar scandals in the event of the realisation of this property, the selection of trade organizations and commodity markets should take place on competitive grounds. And this must be prescribed in the law so that no minister or his subordinates can determine who to give the property to sell and three copies on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u77	Alexeyev. I can't see. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded, we will vote. It is based on the adoption vote in the first reading of the Act amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, registration number 2241. Please vote. [[17:16:06]] For 283 Decision taken. A draft Decision implementing the European Court of Human Rights rulings, registration number 2438, is under consideration. This will be reported by the Chief Sergey Petrovich, please. Get ready for Weak Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u78	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Your view is on a draft decision that has been tabled by representatives from all factions who are members of the permanent delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We were baptized in battle. The first visit of the new delegation was in October. It was in October that the Parliamentary Assembly heard about the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and drew the attention of Parliaments of all countries, members of the Council of Europe, to the fact that not all countries have adequate national systems of parliamentary control, I stress, parliamentary control over the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. So this draft decree, which is suggested to your mind, is the first step in our parliament towards developing such a national system of parliamentary control. It suggests that some measures should be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers, that attention be given to the Attorney General’s Office, is proposed, and recommended to the Supreme Court. The point is that in the future we will have annual parliamentary hearings on this issue. The Committee on Justice, in cooperation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is in control of this process why? Because from year to year the number of cases brought by the European Court against Ukraine has increased. This is an increase, not in geometric progress, but much more. From year to year, there has been an increase in payments of moral compensation and others resulting from the decisions of Eurosud, which are spent on the State Budget. So we need to set up such a system so that even the bills passed by all the subjects of the legislative initiative, whether by the President or by the national deputy or by the government, are already going through a certain stage of expertise. We must do so to fill in the gaps that exist today and to achieve effective parliamentary control. Please support this draft decision. He is unanimously supported by the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u79	Thank you. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u80	And there's another one. With only one editorial correction. While we were preparing a decision or a draft decision in Strasbourg on November 2nd, a new decision was made against Ukraine in the case of Volocha v. Ukraine. This is related to the subject that has already been discussed — the listening regime for private life and so on. I'm just in technical order, please, that's one amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u81	Yes, have a seat, please. Yes, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Sibko Vitaly Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. My fellow Members, it has already been said that our delegation has been present at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I would like to point out that there has been a reference, that we have a law on the enforcement of decisions and the establishment of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. But at the same time, it was thought that this law was not yet creating a mechanism to enable us to implement a court decision and we could create some kind of parliamentary control over this execution. You know that there is a certain amount of debt on the part of the state that today is making some decisions, but it's all more expensive because some examples are repeated all the time. So I think that if this decision is taken, it will take another step towards fulfilling the commitments made by Ukraine by joining the Council of Europe. I would also like to stress that the adoption of the draft will allow effective parliamentary control to be put in place with effective enforcement of the Court's decision recommended to Ukraine by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, its resolution 1516. I want to support what the reporter now said that we won't sing in time and we need to add paragraph 1 to sub-paragraph 6, said Sergey Petrovich about it. And I want to report to my colleagues that, more than ever, the members of the committee have been unanimous in discussing this issue, and the committee recommends that we take this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u83	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. True, it's not a bit of a function of your committee, it's another committee that should give an assessment -- the Justice Committee, not in international affairs. I don't know how it got to you. Yes, please, who's up for it, who's up for it. Sign up. Yes, please, Vyzyvski “for. ” The Jacobs? Please, Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u84	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction of the "Our Ukraine" Block. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! The European Court of Human Rights is one of the main international human rights institutions in the European human rights system. Today, he is one of the three main international courts, along with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the European Court of Luxembourg. The decisions and recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights have an impact on the development, reform and modernization of modern national justice systems, on the practical application of European legal standards in the decision-making of national courts. The impact of this court’s decisions is obviously positive for the development of national standards and standards for the protection of human rights, particularly in Ukraine. Regrettably, Ukraine has joined five countries that have been criticized by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for not accepting the delay in the execution of European Court of Human Rights judgments. On the one hand, it does a great deal of damage to the image of the country in which such a resolution is made, on the other hand, it is a statement of a fact that there are certain systemic violations in one country or another that need to be addressed. The need to improve the enforcement mechanism is explained in particular by the fact that the number of court applications and decisions against Ukraine has been increasing year after year. Yes, in 2005, 120 court rulings were handed down against Ukraine, and 66 in 10 months this year. In 2005, Ukraine became the second nation among the 46 member states of the Council of Europe to make decisions against it, more than 10 per cent of the total. The highest number of such decisions against Turkey. Thus, the implementation of this decree will allow for the strengthening of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Ukraine. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u85	Please, Mikola Tomenko. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, in support of the concern over the failure of the European Court of Human Rights rulings in Ukraine and the adoption of this document, I have not felt the strategic problems highlighted here. And we're all happy to say that we're actually comparing Turkey to the number of decisions against Ukraine. I think it's, well, a superserious signal to the country, the Supreme Court, in general, to the power system in Ukraine. If our citizens win more and more against Ukraine every year in part of human rights violations, we have something wrong with the judicial system, something wrong with us, something wrong with us, because we have it so logically, by the spirit of determination, we rejoice in what Ukraine loses, we want to do it in schools, we want to talk about how to win this court. Where is our job to make sure that the national judicial system can protect its rights? So I would like to point out that as much as possible of this ruling had to come up with a recommendation, recommending that we cannot oblige the Supreme Court and the Cabinet of Ministers to not just analyze these decisions, they looked at where, in what context our citizens, being dissatisfied with the decisions of the Ukrainian judicial institutions, would turn to the European Court of Human Rights and win there. If they win, it means that, absolutely, our judicial authorities were unmotivated when they did not accept, or they were improperly considering such complaints from Ukrainian citizens. So it's very important that it's not just an educational work, it's not just that these decisions are implemented in Ukraine and funded, it's that they're made preventively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u87	Please, Cibenko Peter, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u88	Please pass the word to Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u89	Turn on the marble microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, we have the Law on the Enforcement of Decisions of the European Court of Justice. The Act is therefore fresh, in February of this year. All the departments listed here: the Office of the Attorney-General, the Supreme Court, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop measures to implement the Act. The authors of the draft regulation are trying to transfer the responsibilities of these leaders to the Supreme Council, which is totally out of character for the Supreme Council, which is not provided for by the Constitution, which is the first. Second, the authors are trying to sell out for what has long been known. For example, under the Office of the Attorney-General, “to ensure effective supervision of the terms and conditions of detention”. Or the following: “to ensure effective supervision of pre-trial investigations”. But that's not new, that's all. It's in the Procurator's Act. Why would you rewrite it here? These are similar demands or news from the Supreme Court, the Cabinet of Ministers. What's new? I take it that's why this decision came out. First, the authors propose the establishment of an additional Supreme Council apparatus with appropriate logistics and financial costs. That's the first one. And secondly, the Supreme Justice Council Committee seeks to, well, have an additional influence on the Attorney-General's Office, the Supreme Court, the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, I've noted that this is no longer provided for by the Constitution, it's an overstatement. Therefore, I believe that the draft tabled is rejected, and if the authors consider that something needs to be done, then the law needs to be amended. And we will have a precedent: for every law that the Supreme Council has passed, then we must make a decision on how it is done. Well, that's nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u91	Yes, please, what is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Justice does not support the above - mentioned draft Supreme Council ruling in view of the fact that, to date, there is a Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. There is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is also being enforced by the government of Ukraine. And all the other issues relating to the Supreme Court of Ukraine concerning the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine are fully regulated in the procedural codes, in the relevant laws, in the Ukrainian Procurator's Act and so on. In practice, it is proposed that the Prosecutor's Office implement the Ukrainian Law on Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court to implement the Procedural Code, which is undoubtedly necessary in connection with the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is to establish parliamentary control. That is, if the draft decision were solely in one sixth, we would definitely support the project. But given that there are many more points, the Ministry of Justice does not support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u93	One minute to the Chief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, it's strange to hear this from the Ministry of Justice, because what Deputy Marmazov has been talking about is there, and it's written that the government should do concretely, which will introduce legislation in order to make changes on specific matters that have already been brought up in Strasbourg so that these matters will not continue to be cloned. It's the same thing about the D.A.'s office. The law of enforcement, yes, I was one of you, I know what it is, but it's not working. The D.A.'s office, which is criminal code, you say they don't. Tomenko is the court of law. It specifically suggests that the Supreme Court should take control of the review of these decisions in a case-by-case manner, control how the judges apply the convention. This is all to be done. This is the mechanism that we need to control with you. If we as a parliament give an additional mandate to the government, and he says we should not do so. I'm sorry to hear that. And that's what we exist for. If we control the government and we talk, make this a case that changes the law, the KPC, the Prosecutor's Office Act, before that, before that. So it's not true that everything here is being added here. I ask you, the entire delegation is asking you to support it, and the two committees are unanimously asking you to support the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, for the first time in our practice, we make a decision when we take a court decision or force someone to execute a court decision. This is something I'm curious about, an interesting nuance. It follows that each decision of the European Court of Justice will be made by the Parliament to decide whether or not to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to follow through on this decision. What are you and I going to turn into? Is that logical? That's logical. The other one. If, Sergey Petrovich, you speak, and I think you speak with knowledge of the matter, that changes should be made to certain laws or other laws, why are you assigning this to the Cabinet of Ministers? As the subject of the legislative initiative, you have the opportunity to make these changes to the laws, and they will be considered. I personally believe that this decree is made up that it does not have the right to life. But your right to be determined. I am voting on the decision to enforce the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, registration number 2438. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:11]] For a hundred and Not accepted. Honorable colleagues, make, indeed, and those in the delegation, make their own changes to the laws if you see them necessary. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary of Ukraine on the provision of a civil case hearing, registration number 2294, is being considered, but because there is a disagreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, they request to postpone consideration of this law. I'm voting on the postponement of the amendment law to the Ukrainian Civil Court Act to ensure that civil matters are dealt with. Please be supportive. [[17:33:06]] For 275 Decision taken. I would ask interested parties, and here it has to do with this Justice Committee, to settle this issue with the Minist and Supreme Court of Ukraine in order to return to its consideration. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 255 of the Code on Administrative Offences, registration number 2418, is under consideration. Report to the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Andriy Viktorovich, please. To prepare the Holy of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 255 of the Code of Administering Crime. The proposed bill provides for the identification of officials who have the right to draw up administrative records, the responsibility for which is already provided for by the Law on the Allowance of Business by amending articles 164 and 166 to 10 of the Code on Administrative Violations, in particular the responsibility of operators for the conduct of economic activity without obtaining permission, another document of a permissive nature, if it is provided for by law, officials of the permissive authority and the administrator for a violation of the order of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. So there's a mechanism that's already in place, I emphasize, of norms. The bill is supported by the Committee on Law Enforcement to Enactment in the First Reading and has a positive conclusion from the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The adoption of the Act will ensure that the requirements of legislation are complied with by all entities in the process of obtaining the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, both by the owners and by the officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u98	Thank you. So another step is being taken to create a level playing field and an adequate responsibility for authority and entrepreneurship. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u99	Thank you. Have a seat. Revoslav Olijnik is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the Law Enforcement Committee, considered the proposed bill. This is about the fact that as early as 2005, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences was supplemented by rules that provided for the responsibility of violating the order of business and the responsibility for breaching the order of issuance of a document of a permissive nature. The bill now proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to create a mechanism for the implementation of this responsibility by defining the bodies that have the right to draft administrative responsibility protocols. The committee’s consideration did not give rise to significant comments, purely technical comments. Therefore, the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u101	Yes, please, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for. Yes, please, Mikola Onichuk “yes. ” Turn on the microphone. And then Easy will help him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I don't think Baby's gonna have to help me. I can do this on my own.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u103	No, I mean, he's going to deny you because he's against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction “Our Ukraine” supports this bill. Because it provides for the introduction, more faithfully, of a procedure for the administration of administrative responsibility to officials of an arbitrary authority, i.e. government officials, if they violate the legal order for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. So it happened that when it comes to business subjects, we have enough both to check and control. It is also important to draw on the responsibility of those who, in fact, control the responsibility of economic operators. In particular, it has been established by law that a specially authorized authority on the issue of the free system in the field of economic activity, and such body is the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, within its competence, exercises control over compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature. In addition, the draft law was designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to plan measures to introduce the law on the free system in the field of economic activity. And this is actually the position of the government. So please support the bill and vote it as a basis. Actually, he's ready for adoption as a whole. But if there are objections, of course, the rules do not allow us to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u105	Yes, please. Oleg Lazko. He has to speak with a different mind. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u106	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, please note this bill, which we are invited to vote on. Such an impression is lurking as to whether the reporter, Daškević, was unable to explain clearly what was going on. Whether we are simply misled because the amendments to articles 164 and 166 with the 10th Code of Administerment define the responsibility of business operators without obtaining permission. And now the Regulatory Policy Committee wants to have the right to file protocols on administrative infringements on the operators who carry out this activity without permission. We're being told that no, we're going to be putting it on officials who don't issue licenses to operators. So you can sort out what you're asking for. Who needs protocols. Do you request that you be given the right to make protocols for nonlicensed operators, or do you request that you be given the right to file protocols for officials who do not issue but, for example, are obliged to issue a licence to a host subject. From what's said here, it's completely unclear. I mean, obviously this bill either needs to be re-readed or re-processed before the second reading. Because those materials that are given and analyzed do not allow us to understand the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u107	Thank you. I think if you don't understand, they'll use whatever they want. Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 2418. It's easy to vote. [[17:41:35]] For 296 Copy that. Since there are observations and warnings, we prepare for the second reading. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 2419, is under consideration. Report to the interim minister in charge of emergency and protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Antonec Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. Get ready for the Oliynik of Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u108	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Today, the Security Fund holds documents for 10,000 major economic areas, life - support systems, transportation connections. Among them are documentation of 82 cultural objects and historical and cultural monuments of 2 million sheets. The creation of the U.S. Documentation Fund is carried out through one national, 22 branch and 35 regional programs. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the fact that the Ukrainian Act on the Documentation Insurance Fund provides for the administrative responsibility of the subjects of the State system of the Documentation Fund and other legal and natural persons for violating Ukraine's legislation on the Documentation Insurance Fund, but the legal norm that establishes such responsibility is absent. The draft law provides for the granting to the authorities of the State Department of the Insurance Fund of documentation the right to impose administrative responsibility by imposing a fine on citizens and officials for failing to comply with the legislation on the Documentation Insurance Fund in the event of an initial and repeated breach. A committee on law enforcement during the consideration of the bill made a number of valid observations and decided to refer it to the draft. We believe that these comments could be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In addition, I would like to ask the national deputies to take into account that the government has twice considered and approved the bill, but in view of changes in government and the completion of the Supreme Council’s terms of reference, the bill has returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u109	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u110	Please adopt the law on the basis of the following comments and suggestions Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Revoslav Olijnik is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u112	The Law Enforcement Committee reviewed the proposed bill and adopted a negative decision on it for such reasons. First of all, it must be said that, indeed, such a bill is necessary because the relevant law of Ukraine foresees responsibility for violating the requirements of this law, and this responsibility should be in the form of administrative responsibility. At the same time, the proposed bill, according to the committee, has a number of major shortcomings. Yes, the committee cannot agree with the proposal that a specially authorized state authority in one person focus on the right to show infringement, to make a provision for its removal, to draw up protocols and to consider these protocols in substance. So it turns out that in one organ all functions of administrative force are concentrated. This is the first major observation. The second important point is that, in particular, the assumed responsibility of both business leaders and individual citizens is not fully understood how citizens can become violators of the State Insurance Fund Act – the Ukrainian Insurance Documentation Fund? In addition, the scientific and expert management of this bill, which cannot be understood and the committee agrees on how a re-involvement mechanism can be applied if the law provides for the possibility of carrying out the checks listed only more often than once a year. As a result, the Committee on Law Enforcement recommends that the Supreme Council return the draft law for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u113	Yes, thank you. Please, if you want, for, against, green, red buttons. Yes, please, Mikola Onichuk microphone. For. Get ready for Andrey School, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u114	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, in fact, it's a typical situation where we often use such a normative phrase in laws that for violating the requirements of this law, guilty persons are called to account. It's consistent with the law. And we read the laws, in the laws of that responsibility. It's not there. This is exactly the classic case where the law, which is actually today, particularly the Ukrainian Documentary Insurance Fund, provides for administrative responsibility for violating the requirements of this law and the right government, by the way, has entered with an appropriate proposal to provide for it, at least administrative responsibility, that is, the lowest of those that we now have. The scientific expertise has really shown that not all the proposals made by the author of the legislative initiative are correct and detailed, but not under all circumstances. gives us the opportunity in the first reading -- and I emphasize this -- to apply the administrative responsibility for violating this law to foresee. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" supports the bill in the first reading. By the way, we would ask our colleagues to do this, as some of the findings of the profile committee were dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u115	Thank you. Andrew School, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u116	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out right now that you'll see if there's so much time in the ministry that there's no head and there's no temporary responsibility, maybe that's why there's not much quality in drafting bills, which is that the subject of the legislative initiative is the Ministry of Emergency Situations. And perhaps in a hurry. In fact, you have to wait, there will be meetings. I also can't understand why it's been going on for so long with the task of a simple and necessary ministry for Ukraine. Minister, and then a document will be prepared with quality and full value. Because the legal side of drafting the bill really sucks. I'm not talking about the obvious problems that colleagues have already mentioned here: what is prescribed, what is the answer, but who is it, and who is the person, when it comes only to legal persons, and it's written about mere individuals. How can this be qualified? And we can't propose to the Supreme Council for consideration a bill that doesn't have to be adopted, it's not due to rereading, it's because, in principle, whoever wants to read the bill, it's going to read the bill. At least I'll point out it's necessary. So our proposal: you can call off this bill, take the initiative, you can do it right now; you can refer to the absence of a minister. A minister will come, he will study carefully, perhaps speeding up the appointment of a minister, perhaps by tomorrow he will be appointed, perhaps by today. And that's going to be a high-quality, full-fledged offer to the Supreme Council. Believe me, there are no opponents of the idea itself, but the interpretation of this idea is not one that would please the Supreme Council. So I think you're going to have time, inspiration, and in the new leadership and incentive, you're going to have to offer the Supreme Council a quality product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u117	Question completed. The only thing I would like to do is to be tolerant of the authors of the legislative initiative, whether the minister or the minister. You understand who's writing the laws. They sign, and they write the laws of the apparatus. So the machine is eternal, it won't change, whatever the minister is, including he just wears off. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 2419. Vote. [[17:50:49]] For 290 The decision was taken in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. We're going to discuss the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that Caused Loss of Work. [[on the organization of the Fund's work]] Registration number 2045. Find out Jaroslav Suhi, get ready for Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u118	Honorary colleagues, a group of Ukrainian national deputies, have submitted a bill for your consideration, and its adoption is due to the fact that since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act of April 1, 2001, "On a mandatory public social insurance against an accident in production" has raised issues that need to be regulated at the legislative level. In this regard, it was necessary to adjust the individual rules of the Law, to include new standards, regulations. In particular, with regard to bringing its provisions into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code for the payment of moral damage. You know that problem exists in our places. The Ukrainian Income Tax Act, the calculation of insurance contributions and so forth, also requires improving the discipline of payment of insurance contributions, reporting, and clarifying the number of self-employed persons. The bill proposes to amend the basic bill and provides for a clearer formulation or extension of certain concepts, as well as the inclusion of new clauses, in relation to which changes are made to a number of articles – the first, 17th, 18th and others, which provide for the payment of moral immaterial damage to the person who has caused it, a clear definition of the law on the recalculation of monthly insurance payments from 1 March each year, a clear definition of the order for reimbursement of the costs of services mentioned in paragraph 5 of the fourth part of article 34 of the Act, as well as a list of these services and so forth. The adoption of the bill will not only allow the Fund to improve its work in the area of prevention of accidents and occupational diseases, but will also allow victims to be provided with medical and social services, to strengthen their social protection, and to remove the double interpretation of the basic law from this type of insurance. Finally, the introduction of this bill does not require additional funding from the State Budget. In addition, the position introduced will allow for an increase in the budget of the base fund to which changes are made. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u119	Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich is head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! This bill has been introduced by the people's deputies -- members of our committee, representatives, by the way, different factions. Therefore, we had no doubt about the need to uphold the bill. But it's not even about corporate solidarity, it's about the need for a document, because it's very specific. After all, in 2004, the Civil Code was introduced, and article 1167 provides that the person responsible for the moral damage suffered by a natural or legal person is compensated. In today’s current legislation, these responsibilities have relied on the foundation. There are a number of other clarifying points that require, as it were, to be translated into conformity with other laws. There are some comments about the exceedances, as we think, of the authority of the fund that is being offered to initiate bankruptcy or through banks to intervene and control the use of funds by investors and so forth. But I think these remarks will be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In general, I ask you to support this bill. I say again, it is mainly of a precise nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u121	Yeah, we'll talk about it? No one insists. Then I put the adoption vote on the basis of the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which caused the loss of employment, on the organization of the Fund's work. Registration number 2045. [[5:56:02]] For 304 I'll take that as a base. A draft regulation on strengthening protection measures for the preservation of cultural values, registration numbers 2093, 2093-d. I'd like to invite Yavorovsky Vladimir Alexanderovich. Please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, our constituents of the Ukraine. I just want to remind you. I've literally just had the magazine "The Museums of Ukraine" brought to me, and the first page I'm finding out is that in America, where the Cossack rarities of Ukrainian history were stored, a few cars came and they were untraceable, these rarities disappeared. And a few days later, the Cuban press wrote about what everything means that what is missing in Cuba is returned to the Russian people. That's true, for example. I'm not talking about what you probably know that was stolen, stolen from a unique museum in the Ivankow region, this is the Chernobyl area, Maria Primachenko. She is an amazing artist whose tongue does not come back to be called a primitive, amazing works of hers that have been stolen and thanked God for finding them very quickly. You know, I'm just picking up the last of those episodes. Here is the Yagotina’s unique district museum, where I took pictures of Catherine Bilokur, an amazing artist whom Pablo Picasso once saw in Paris in the Louvre and said: “If God had given me such a talent, I would have been a more famous artist than I am, ” where so many paintings were preserved, so the museum was stolen. I'm leading this to the fact that Alexander Moroz, the author of this decision, is obviously just as keen for him as any citizen, and he's offered to take a decision that will help make things worse, to systematize the system itself to preserve those cultural values that belong to the Ukrainian people on his land and beyond. What's this about? It's about finally having this register of cultural values. I want to emphasize, Adam Ivanovich, it's done so slowly, so weakly, so reluctantly and I'm convinced that even.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u124	Even after this decision, nothing will be removed if we do not put these numbers into the budget this year. But the decision is interesting, it needs to be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u126	You don't need it, Suhi! You don't need it if you don't hear it!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u127	Thank you. Is there a desire to discuss? Yes. Please sign in. Reds, greens, buttons, I mean reds, greens, not deputies. Yes. Please, Eugene the Guide to Support. Yes, to whom, Taran asks to be handed. Please, Taran's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u128	I think I'm out of place. I would strongly support that. And unfortunately, I couldn't ask Vladimir Alexanderovich a few questions. But the point of these questions is that, indeed, determination must be made. I'd like to ask him. Or something is being done to bring back the unique exhibits that have been stuck somewhere in the Russian Empire of the Jabornické exhibits. Our wonderful historian, who from the Dnipropetravest, came from this golden earth to the surface. Or at least something is returning to Ukraine to our archeologist. It's stuck in Petrograd, Leningrad and Ukraine, and all the Scythian acquisitions, they're not coming back. I'd like to ask the same question, if you know, this is the story of the Lviv Museum when it was replaced in this case, if you believe television, it proves. Prime Minister Tabojnik and where all of this was done. I'm only referring to things that are commonly known. That is, perhaps, to some extent, even though this decision is to some extent helpful in moving that terrible thing, that terrible theft of Ukrainian goods, if robbed, exported to Moscow, exported to Petersburg, even though practice has been established around the world, let's say after World War II, all that was looted by the fascists was returned to either Russia or the Netherlands or other countries. I think this is the return of our spirituality. This is the return of Ukraine. And in large numbers, this must be accepted, and this must be voted on, and this must be supported. Another thing when we're talking about any law, we're talking about, first of all, its mechanisms, how these mechanisms are going to work in modern conditions. And I don't know what kind of mechanisms it takes here to, in the context of this derby that we're seeing in Ukraine today, how to make it so that it doesn't grow into the cultural values of Ukraine, as we've been doing lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u129	That's right, but there's a lot of politics. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, there are two big problems here that I would like to pay attention to. And here I can see that the committee is proposing precise dates for the bills or more specifically for the draft regulations proposed by Alexander Alexander Moroz, I think we really need to look more realistically at this serious problem that needs to be solved. The committee is proposing from 2007 to 2010, to complete this procedure, which we've been passing on from year to year to year to verify the existence of cultural values, in fact, to calculate these cultural values, I think it's a realistic term. At the same time, I think it's time to finish the work by 1 March 2007 on creating a software for the state register of a unified museum computer network and so on, I think the idea of good is, well, unrealistic. Although it must be started, funded, too much work is waiting for us to have a single computer database of our cultural acquisitions. And the third position is very important, which obviously needs to be decided by the Cabinet of Ministers, the government once and for all. We've been debating for several years, it's about rural museums. Today, it is clear that rural museums do not have a proper system of protection. And so it happened that local self - government, on the one hand, seems to support them, does so. What's going on is the looting of unique monuments. I think a realistic path is. To decide that these unique monuments should be located only where there is security, and the local authorities would guarantee the protection of these museums. For example, rural small museums leave behind such ethnographic folklore. Demonstrate for school what life was like. The further we leave these monuments in unprotected museums, the more we lose them. So I think the decision doesn't solve all the problems, but it's important that we at least start working to preserve our cultural.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u131	Thank you. The question is closed. Once again, my dear colleagues, the only difference here is that the committee clarified the dates for those terms that were called in the decree, because by the time they were prepared, it was a little out of date. I mean, I'll put it, with your permission, to a vote. With motive? Well, Oneschuck. Okay, okay. I'm the Onechuku with the motive. I'll give it to you when we vote. I'll give it to No, it was called his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, I might not have taken the floor for reasons if there were not one circumstance. I ask you to note that we are taking an unusual decision, this is a decree that is essentially orderly, and we are introducing and implementing, by the way, a new rule of the Constitution when Parliament's rulings, including the orderly nature, are mandatory for the execution of the government. You know, before we made any changes to the Constitution, we didn't have that. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, despite much, really, positive in these decisions, once again there is a subject that the issue of the essence is solved by the creation of a different government body that is tasked with doing something. Therefore, I hope that the government, in carrying out this decree, may be able to do without creating another entity entrusted with something, with new officials, who will do so by the Ministry of Culture or by another authorized state authority. The faction of "Our Ukraine" proposes to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u133	Mikola Vasilovich, you didn't look that far. The decision I'm going to put to the vote is not about this organ, because it's said to be in effect. It's already been created. I am voting on the whole decision to increase protection measures for the preservation of cultural values. Registration number 2093-D. Please vote. [[6:06:12]] For 398 It's been decided. Please, it's dry. The last name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, the bill on committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly states what should be included in the statement by the committee head or a representative of a particular committee when a specific bill is being discussed. My questions were not insulted by anyone, including the chairman of the committee who had just spoken. That's why I'm officially saying I don't need to be evaluated by politicians and a variety of black-mouthed toothpicks! You just stick to the bill and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u135	There's a draft decree on 100th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding selective scientist, the author of the world-renowned varieties of winter wheat, the Ramesla Academy, the registration numbers here are also two. Please, Yavorowski. Is there a rooster? Yes. The gear's ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u136	Society, I'm not going to answer that line because we have to go down to that level. And if I give up, it's very hard to get back up. Let's move on. A group of national MPs proposed a legislative initiative to make a beautiful decision about a beautiful person, a beautiful Ukrainian who is known throughout the world. [[Tooth, Kid, Tuck]] We've just adopted a bill with you on the recognition of the Holocaust by genocide, and this is, you know, some amazing example of how this person wanted to feed the entire planet, because the varieties of its wheat are not even the bladder varieties that were born, and these are the kinds of wheat that live and work for Ukraine today. However, there were some technological inaccuracies in this project. For example, a list of all, there, of the rewards that Remyslo had. In the draft decrees, it's obviously inappropriate. That's why we let, in order to speed up the passage of this decree, this bill, we brought it, as it were, to the standard of the draft decree. I think the authors don't deny it because we asked them, and we suggest that the committee propose to take this decision and celebrate the century since the birth of this brilliant selector, Ukrainian peacemaker under Kiev, who had his own institution, to take this decision. This lists all the measures that are usually taken to identify an outstanding person. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u137	Thank you. Teeth, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm going to add a little bit to what Vladimir Alexanderovich said, this is, indeed, a famous man in the world who will be 100 years old on February 10th of next year. Today, the Institute of Wheat, also known in Europe, bears his name. By the way, this man sat in this room for many years as a member of the Supreme Council. I think the Little Man will back me up. Simply put, it is made by this man, creating a series of varieties of winter wheat and barley. So in the Soviet Union, the area occupied by the August wheat selection of the late Vasil Mikolaiovich Ramesla was the year of the profit of one and a half billion carbs at the time. Today, more than 1,000 varieties of winter wheat have been created using the gene pool Mironovska-808. I will not continue to say what a man deserves, how he is rewarded. We've been fixed up that we don't have to, maybe even give these credits. I have a huge request, it's agreed with all of us, let's agree, we'll take this decision to commemorate the century from our birthday. By the way, this year will be 50 years old of the outstanding wheat of the “Mironovska-808” class. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u139	Mikhail Vasilovich, do you agree with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u140	He's got to add a little boy. So there's a little change that the committee made. Technical. You've heard Vladimir Alexanderovich say technical editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u141	Dear colleagues. Okay, Mikhail Vasilovich. I understand you disagree. It's not technical. It's just that the decision was taken that he was twice the hero of social work, that he was an academic, that he was rewarded and so on and so forth. It's the author's right. Okay. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? No, they insist. Please sign in. Yes, please, Bulba. Behind him is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u142	I'm asking you to tell my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u143	Ivan Bondarchuk, please. Turn on Bondarchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I don't think it's technical. It's a matter of principle. And that's why we shouldn't be ashamed and say that it was twice the Social Work Hero, the Lenin Prize laureate and so on, and so on, because it's not a technical thing. It's a matter of principle. Because we, if we are to speak the truth of our history, will properly observe all those who really wanted to feed not only our Ukraine but the entire planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u145	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm addressing my colleague Bondarchuk. Well, believe me, why are you looking for niggers in Ukrainian dusk? He's not there. There are technological things. You'll understand, if you're talking about Debt, you'll have to be determined to write 3 pages, which is universally known, the author of films, the winner of Stalin's prizes. There's technology. To that end, we are making a decision to have a big night at the Opera Theatre in order to massage across Ukraine to tell you about Ramesla, to make films about him, to say so. That's why the decision is made, not to write it all down in the Supreme Council document. You want to overthrow this bill that you're arguing with. There's no politics here. We just edited it, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality takes two or three decisions each month. There's manufacturing technology. And I'm asking you, well, don't look where it's not. It's a normal decision that says it's an outstanding selector and all that. It's all in the determination, and counting it all out in a row, it's just inappropriate. Let's call the varieties of wheat that he's produced. Well, we wanted to do better, and it turns out it always does. Well, stop before that and let's vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u147	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u148	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I really signed up by pressing the button against, but against taking away a piece of his biography. For when it comes to not mentioning the rewards, not to mention the rank, but these titles and rewards, they are calculated, including the corns, the buckets of sweat that this man poured out in getting the heavy bread that is now in the citizens of Ukraine. I would like to say that symbolically, that the scientific institution where this famous man worked today is practically poor. And so that's another confirmation that the changes that are happening today in the hands of people who want to publish for purely technical things are not random. Thus, the Communist faction will definitely support this decision, but in its original form, that is, without the cuts made by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Question completed. Since there are differences, I will put the rulings to the vote. The vote is based on Order No. 2293 without committee editing. Please vote. [[18:15:23]] For 328 Thank you. 328, by faction, decree 2293 was adopted, without the deletion that was discussed. Region Party – 177, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 60, Our Ukraine - 39, Socialists - 26, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 5. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, let's make some changes to the order of the day's second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth call. [[on the inclusion of additional questions]] This is registration number 2600. Please, Onesuchk, the microphone. It's an additional inclusion in the agenda and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u150	Dear colleagues! The Conciliation Board really recommended that the Supreme Council approve this list. What I have to say, Adam Ivanovich, is that at the Conciliation Council, the faction “Our Ukraine” recommended the inclusion of two issues in the order of the day, these are two draft regulations under the headings 2531 and 2530, which refer to the reports of two ministers of appropriate fuel and energy, as well as housing and utilities, construction and architecture in view of the need to discuss a whole range of issues that are of interest to the electorate today. So we're voting for this project, taking into account these two details.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u151	Got it, Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u152	Adam Ivanovich, you have a question. I raised a question on the Conciliation Council about Victor Taran-Terreen's bill concerning children born in captivity. And I don't know how the last option is, but in the previous version, I never saw it on the list of laws that go into the agenda. And today I was meeting with the head of the Apparatus, Mr. Zajczuk, and there was a question? This law was not voted out; it was rejected by the Supreme Council. He voted in favour once and was not included. Therefore, there is every reason to include it in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u153	Well, if it wasn't included in this session, you can include, put it on. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u154	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Communist faction is ready to vote in favour of this draft decree, but for the original version that we have on our hands, which lists 18 drafts of documents, because we can stress a lot of things out of the voice. In particular, I'm just drawing your attention to the last proposal that Mr. Turkinov made. What is the point in that document? The document suggests that children be rehabilitated, even though children were not condemned, or rehabilitated, by a person who was not condemned. Well, it's nonsense, my dear fellows, so I propose that if we vote, we vote on the document we have on paper. That list we have on our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m1.u155	Let's do it this way. I'm going to put the Ukrainian faction's proposals for a vote, let's say, let's vote on the basis of the list that is and then vote on the other proposals. On the basis of inclusion in the list of issues. Which are given out in a document. Based on the base. [[18:19:01]] For 303 Yes. As a basis, accepted. I'm putting forward a proposal made by Onischuk for the inclusion in the agenda of the two ministers' report sessions. This is about the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Construction and the Minister of Fuel and Energy. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:19:36]] For 158. Not supported. Well, in that case, we explained to the bill that he had already voted in this session. Well, you said it yourself, Alexander Valentinovich! They didn't put it in the agenda. Who's in favour of the proposal made by the Turk, please be sure. [[18:20:09]] For 158. 158 too. All proposals have been considered. I'm voting on the whole decision to be included in the agenda. Please vote. We will discuss it when we consider it. [[6:20:32]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow's the beginning of work, as usual, at ten o'clock.
