ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! It's September 13th, Wednesday. We're starting the morning session. Deputies, please prepare for registration. Sit down, put down your cards. A roll call is being made. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:02:58]] There are 409 national deputies registered in the hall, and the morning session is public. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich. He's 55 years old, let's say hello. [[Applause]] Well, the rest of the questions with this event will be settled after the plenary meeting. In the meantime, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have on Wednesday 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, messages. So I'll do the announcement first. It is said that in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of 5 September of this year, I am informing you that Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich has been released in connection with his appointment to the Cabinet of Ministers from his duties as head of the Party of the Regions. The leader of the faction was the national deputy of Ukraine, Richterov Raís Vasilovna. [[Applause]] Azarov Mikola Janović, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, Klavov Andrija Petrovic, Jarty Vasil Georgievic, was released from the duties of deputy heads of the Party of the Regions. On the other hand, the deputy heads of the faction have been elected as the national deputies of Ukraine, Kiselova Vasilyyovich, Chechov Mikhail Vasilovich, Haru Vasil Georgievovich, Mironka Mikhail Ivanovich, Slauto Viktor Andryovich. [[Applause]] On the basis of personal statements made by Ukrainian National Deputies of the Supreme Inga of Stanislavna, Kručkov Vasil. Dmitry Vasilovich, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich, members of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, I inform them of their membership in the Anti-Cristian Coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Social Party and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please sign up for statements, statements. Kirilchuk Eugen has the word. Please explain the list. Well, you have it. It's Netzka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u2	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Zubov Valentina Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u3	Please, Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Respectable radios, voters! Unfortunately, it's like Krilov's fairy tale: the summer of the red has been a success, well, winter is coming. As a normal person, like every Ukrainian citizen, I watch television every night, news first of all. Two days ago, it was reported that a session of the Donetsk City Council had been held, at which the decision of the session had approved an increase in prices for utilities and more than twice. To be honest, I was surprised that the expected, fully understandable increase in prices would start with the Donetsk region. There must be some symbolism in this. Today, our daily faction, Yulia Timoshenko's Block, has proposed the establishment of an investigative commission to answer a non-political question: why is such a sharp rise in prices of utilities felt by every Ukrainian citizen? And this shaft is just beginning. By the new year, higher prices would be more than 200 per cent. We are tasked with understanding, and we ask the people's deputies to support everyone present here in this room in one simple task: Ukraine produces its own gas of 19 billion cubic metres, and all utilities require 18.8 billion cubic metres of gas. So today we can have our gas, which is worth a thousand cubic meters of 114 rubles, we can not raise the tariffs on housing and utilities. We want to set up an investigative commission that will answer the question of where huge funds go. By the way, it is very interesting that at the meeting of the Danish Council, the Secretary of the Council, Mr. Levchenko, explaining to the MPs why price increases are going up, he said frankly, he called these figures and said: “We need to understand at the State level why the Ukrainian gas is being exported and the people are being given gas that supplies us “Rosukergo” so I do not want us to see in this simple task the political aspect. I want the entire Supreme Council to support the proposal of Yulia Timoshenko for the establishment of a special commission of inquiry. It is she who will have to answer all these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u5	Olena Netecka has the floor. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u6	Elena Netecka, faction of Party regions. Please pass the word to Komar Nikolai Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u7	Please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u8	Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, preparing for the winter is one of the most important issues, both for each citizen and for the country as a whole, is a key test for authorities to be able to exercise professional and effective governance in the country. We want to assure everyone: The government of Janukovich gives priority to preparing for the winter season. The government knows the country’s problems are objective and subjective and does everything possible and impossible to solve. The country, in turn, will know its heroes and anti-heroes as a result of preparing for the winter and, in fact, winter. The government will be accountable to the citizens and this responsibility will be personalized. This is especially true of governors, and it applies to authority in places. We want to emphasize that preparing the regions for the winter period is taking place in close collaboration between the government and the local authorities. From the regions should come a real picture of the state of preparation of residential facilities, etc. So the authorities on the scene have identified themselves with difficult bottlenecks. Now it's a question of the main, efficient use of funds that are specially allocated from the central budget to the warning of winter accidents. Lately, the subject of preparation for winter has become primitive, and it has been reduced to one element. Of course, the issue of gas payments is extremely important, but not only at the price of the gas problem in Ukraine. Remember, Alchevsk was sitting in the cold regardless of the price of gas. Not at the gas price at the time, but in his absence at all. Of course, the issue of energy bills cannot be avoided. The situation is really not easy. The prices for gas for the population approved by our predecessors cannot be borne by the family budgets of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens. The government needs to find a solution. People cannot pay the last money for creating a state with proper conditions for their lives and health. At the same time, it must be understood that the decision must be economically tested and politically balanced. The problem is not solved by statements of radical content based on the principle of “war — nothing, but mainly manoeuvres”. People have already experienced so many different maneuvers that they have been able to appreciate everything. We need to analyze the state of preparation of each region for the fall-winter period and, where necessary, make organizational conclusions about those district managers who cannot organize their subjects for government work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u9	But please, Laszko, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Get ready, Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, among the large volumes of drafts that were handed down to us during our registration, we caught the bill of the Ukrainian National Deputy from the faction of Vasil Kiselov, which he proposes to introduce, journalists, attention, criminal responsibility for slander. I would like to remind you that after the adoption of the Criminal Code in 2001, article 125, which predicted criminal liability for slander, was withdrawn. Today, representatives of the most democratic party in Ukraine are proposing to reintroduce this responsibility. True, they have to give what is right, and in their democratic progress they have gone far ahead. When the Criminal Code provided for part three and five years of deprivation of liberty for slander, Mr. Kiselov proposes to limit himself to two years of imprisonment. Thank him for not being five, but two. But, seriously, this fact shows that the Party of Regions, which declares democratic principles, has actually launched an attack on civil liberties and freedom of speech in Ukraine. This is usually reflected in statistics on this category of cases that took place before 2001, usually in cases of defamation, as stated by government officials and government officials. Today, legislation completely settles this issue, and any person whose rights are violated can appeal to the court and defend these rights in court. Instead, the author of the bill suggests that the rights of these people were protected by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Security Service. I don't think any of us and any other government officials need his rights protected by the D.A.'s office. And he himself is able to defend his rights. That's why I'm asking Mr. Kiselov and the leaders of the Party of Regions, which declare democratic principles in their work, to call off this bill and stop the attack on freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u11	Please, Andrew Sanchenko. Get ready for Sasha.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u12	I'd like to give the floor to the deputy of Yavorivsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u13	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u14	Honourable winners of the election, distinguished voters of Ukraine. I want to focus on a few, from our point of view, very important problems on behalf of the Yulia Block. I would like to remind you of the words of an amazing man whom the British have chosen several times as their prime minister. After each election, he said, “I know that I have climbed the top of a loved one. ” I want to remind our authority today. And I also want to remind you of one more thing. That politics comes with a beautiful résumé, and very often it comes out of the biography disgraceful. Period. It's very sad that today, after 15 years of Ukrainian independence, in fact, in assessing some of the most important national values that Ukraine has, we're actually going back to its zero mark today. First of all, our greatest value is the Ukrainian language. I want to say from this rostrum that on the big planet Earth is the only small place where this language can be a state where it must be protected by the state. This place is called Ukraine. What is happening today on the part of the authorities, of some, on the part of some of the representatives of the “Regions” cannot but disturb every Ukrainian today. The ink has not yet dried under those documents that were so painfully born, to which the President went, and the “Regions” because of the great compromises that the bill that will detonate the Ukrainian society had already been brought before yesterday. It's about giving Russian the official language. These are some of the representatives of the “Regions” today, you know, so, playing biceps, they start to say, well, we're only going to have 300 votes, and we're going to do the most important thing for them, which is to change the Constitution in order to get the Ukrainian language out of use again. Read the statements that many of our government officials wrote yesterday. I'm proud of Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, who doesn't take any chances anymore, doesn't write by hand, he's already on the computer, and he's just putting his signature under these statements. It's a very worrisome question. I'm asking Alexander Alexandrovich, don't involve Parliament in these proceedings today. And the last. We are deeply concerned about human resources policy today. There was a wonderful man who led our National Archives, the most important thing in the nation today, is the archive, its memory, its history. He is released and assigned to Hinzburg. You know, she was a colleague of ours in the previous summons, the armistice who's going to be dealing with these documents today. I'm very worried about that. I don't want to blame anyone, but it's a huge danger. I call for authority, association, remember that politicians come out with disgraceful biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u15	Sergei Sas, please. After him, Scoobenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u16	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Taran. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Victor Terran faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear friends! During the last session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you remember this, who were the deputies, we twice raised questions about hearing representatives from those ethnic Ukrainian territories that had been evicted from Holland, from Lemkovščina from other lands -- during the deportation of Ukrainians, which began in 1944 and lasted for many years. You know, at the time, I had to speak from our faction about this issue, and it's because of the faction of Communists that these issues didn't go away in the Supreme Council. The Communists then had some white 60 deputies, and actually the question was blocked. I also want to say that other issues were to be addressed at the session, particularly the amendments to the Political Repression Act, the bill on the granting of the status of juvenile prisoners of Stalinese concentration camps, the UPA soldiers, and then there was a very interesting practice, let's say so. From the general list of bills to be considered at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the pressure of the Communist factions, these bills were deleted and separately put to the vote. And, of course, they didn't get most of it in the hall. And so, and the question of justice for those who were evicted from Ukraine, the question of justice for UPA soldiers, other questions, they just moved away, they weren't considered. And then finally there's our new Supreme Council, and finally there's a coalition that's very wide from Carpathian to the provinces itself, such a broad coalition, and what has changed in this situation? What happened yesterday? Yesterday was the exact same scenario as before. Alexander Alexander Moroz, from the general list of laws, removes the bill on the granting of the status of juvenile prisoners, my bill, removes the Lukianka bill, which was one of the first ever to be registered among the deputies of the new calling of the Supreme Council. On what basis does he remove them, such as the Lycan woman who was the first to be registered? That doesn't explain it. And they stand alone for the vote. And you know that they were in the Supreme Council yesterday, of course, because the Communists didn't get the majority because one faction continues to dictate the will of parliament. Dear friends! If we speak for Ukraine’s unity, we must first and foremost have the unity of the people who suffered for Ukraine, the people who gave their lives for Ukraine. And we can't, we don't have the right to let one faction, in fact, continue to dictate the will of the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u19	Yes, please, Skubenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, payback next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u20	Vladimir Skoubenko, Block of Yulia Timoshenko, Donetsk. This is the first time I've spoken to this very responsible rostrum. And I would like the first to address my constituents to those who have not been able to attend the session of the Donetsk City Council today, as there are no representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, to learn the truth about the tariffs they have so far made easy to pay for the entire city. Today, this is a rise in tariffs, when this cannot even be said at the wages and incomes of the population, 1.9 times on Donetsk. This is followed by the whole Donetsk region, which cannot cover in any way the negative situation in NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Today, we know that our Ukrainian gas, which is mined at 114 bracelets, is released to the population by 400 bracelets. From here, there's an increase in tariffs. I therefore draw the attention of all deputies to the proposal that our bloc will make for the establishment of a special commission of inquiry into tariff increases. This is not the internal case of the Commission of Derkac, which has been carried out to investigate the legitimate actions of NAC Naftogazu Ukraine. This is a broader issue, a broader problem. And I think we should set up such a commission. Because the wave that started today from Donetsk will cover all of Ukraine. I also want to see that today, these primitive increases in prices of utilities are starting to teach us that we are conspiring to the biggest problem that there is. Why did this happen? Why aren't we investing our own gas, our own productions today? Why aren't our Ukrainian companies working on our deposits to date? Why are today individual foreign companies with foreign capital receiving additional licenses for exploration and extraction of our Ukrainian gas? Where does the gas of Ukrainian origin go, how does it participate in our balance sheet? All of these are matters that should be addressed by the future commission. I very much want the situation with the regions to be taken into account in the current deliberations in the Supreme Council. I do not think that those areas where there are no representatives of our bloc so far can simply by their willful decision not take into account the views of all voters. I think we're going to prepare a special request and I'm going to make such a request for an unreasonable increase in tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u21	Vladimir Oblaczko is handing over to John Alexander Gerasimov, please. Next Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u22	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. The mythologicalization of the history of the Soviet period is becoming increasingly widespread. It obscures the truth and dilutes the minds, souls, and even the middle generation. An enemy of public policy is being raised, the removal of new generations from the generations of true patriots who have conquered the most terrible of mankind's evils, Fascism. To create an economy that will ensure our victory, and to unimaginably short lines that have restored the war-torn people's economy. One of the myths is the myth of the famine developed and brought to us from the United States of America. Under the influence of the apologists of this myth, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, has ordered the construction of a State historical and memorial complex of victims of hunger. There is a contest for the best project of a memorial with its supposed location in Kiev, in the Park of Eternity, where a monument is established for hero soldiers who protected and liberated Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. As stated at the last meeting of the competition commission, Williams Morgan, one of the major American developers, must be the political purpose of the memorial complex to condemn the criminal totalitarian regime. So he can never go back to history. The 14 million-million-dollar veteran organization of Ukraine declares. First, there is no legal basis for today's view of hunger as a famine of 32 to 33 years. Hunger as a form of genocide is a crime against humanity. Hunger in Ukraine from 32 to 33 years is not recognized as being done with regard to the Holocaust, nor is it recognized by any legal institution, including the United Nations. And Russia, which was at the same time part of the Soviet State, which suffered the same famine from non-fertilization, did not recognize it as a famine. Secondly, it is unacceptable to build a memorial as a hunger trap in the capital's eternal glory park and does not conform to urban and architectural standards. Veterans of the Great Homeland War are required. The first is to remove the issue of the construction of a memorial complex, so-called famine, because there is no legal basis. Consider building a monument to compatriots who died of hunger in 32-33 non-fertilization years. Second. Delete any use for construction in the Park of the Eternal Glory of the capital of Ukraine, any monumental building unrelated to the memory of the Great Homeland War of 41-45 years. And third. If it is necessary to investigate the causes of hunger in the Soviet Union from 32 to 33, to establish an international commission from Ukraine, Russia and possibly the United States, with the compulsory participation of representatives of the veteran public, living witnesses of tragic events. I'm asking you to support the request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u23	Joseph of Viennese. Next Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a few figures and ask your attention to listen carefully to what's going on in the state. I would like to compare 1991 and 2005 so that we can understand what is done in terms of prices in the communal sphere. Gross domestic product in 1991: $117 billion, $75 billion in 2005. Wages and pensions in gross domestic product structure in 1991 were 70 billion, that is, 51 percent, in 2005 20 billion, that is, 27 percent. Business profits. They used to be state-owned, now business. In 1991, 25 billion, 21 percent, in 2005, 30 billion, 41 percent. The price of gas. It was close to zero in 1991 and 400 now. I'm asking questions, fellow colleagues, aren't we surprised that in 1991 there was no person in Ukraine who was one hundred of the richest people in Europe, and today we have 11. And is it not the time today, using these figures, for those who have led the state to think, perhaps it is time for the people to share their wealth, their profits. And so when we're talking about creating a temporary commission today, we're talking about investigating commissions today, we're talking about some common groups, we're very aware that all this deception is completely frank. One thing to do is the government has to make a decision, the government's decision, and most of it is personally responsible for it, since you formed this government. And this decision should clearly address this issue. The political issue is not an economic issue. People's money, people's money, people's money, or our new oligarchs. And I'll be honest with you. That today we're at a repertoire. If the government doesn't solve this problem in the near future, for the benefit of the people, we need to make it clear that the line for the looting of the Ukrainian people will continue harshly by both this government and this coalition. I'm sorry, but it's going to have to be made plain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u25	Alexander Tkachenko gives the word to Mikola Kravchenk, please. Get ready for Helen Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u26	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for Drivers' Rights. Dear colleagues! Respectable TV audiences! In recent times, there has been widespread media rumours that the Ministry of the Interior has been reinstated by the GAI to strengthen its influence on roads, to collect rights, fines and so on. I want to inform you that there is no such bill and such a law to date. It is a matter of public opinion that the Ministry of the Interior should introduce such a bill. I would like to express the position of both factions and the position of the All-Ukrainian Union on the protection of the rights of drivers. We're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, Today, we are tasked with changing the functions of the GAI. The GAI must be the organizer of the movement today, not the bush-watching posts. We are talking today about changing the road signs policy, we are talking today about solid, good coverage and monitoring of the use of money to repair roads. As a result, what is said on television screens today is not legally confirmed. And the second. It concerns residents of the city of Kiev, where, you know, by decision of the council of the city, the mayor, the practice of forced car evacuation has been applied. I was sent a request. On the basis of a parliamentary request, the Public Prosecutor's Office protested the case. Today, the Shevchenkov court overturned the decision of the city council. I'm talking to the Kievers, you're at least a little bit fighting for your rights. Today it is recognized by the Prosecutor's Office and the courts that this decision is illegal. So if you have such facts, signal, we will deal with these problems together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u27	Please, Bondarenko Olena. It's stuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u28	Adam Ivanovich! The microphone's not working. Oh, it's working. Please pass the word to the deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u29	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Honorable MPs and citizens of Ukraine! A colleague of Winsky raised a question that should be central to the work of the newly elected Supreme Council. Poverty in Ukraine is still of a total nature. And we can see that this problem is getting worse because the new government is also going along the lines of raising housing tariffs, raising gas prices, electricity and this increase is unjustified and unfair, because the real cost of gas that's coming out of the 20 billion quota. Cuba’s meters have a cost of $5-6, which is 30 dollars, not 144 dollars, and no more than 444 — the price that our citizens are now imposing on our citizens. In addition, the gross domestic product today does not exceed 20 copies of the gross domestic product, while in democratic countries it reaches 70 percent. This is the most important question and only an economic strategy. This is a matter of combating State corruption, and we see it in very concrete examples. It's a good thing the President took the initiative and put in place a system of legislative initiatives to combat corruption, but it's all going to depend on how it works. The citizens of Ukraine correctly assess the situation. Only 13 per cent of the country's stability was answered positively, only 26 per cent of the government's legitimacy, and today the Supreme Council is facing unresolved issues about internal and external policy, the issue is when they will be adopted, the issue of competitiveness, the competitiveness of our economy, and finally this Supreme Council will begin to develop a national development strategy in a globalizing environment. We should not allow the famine to recur in 32 years. This famine was a policy, not a crop, and there is nothing to be done about it. In 32-33, the crop in Ukraine was good.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we have completed our announcements, questions, messages. I called because I thought Bondarenko was refusing to speak, and she just asked for a word, not from the rostrum, but from the spot, so I called. Dear colleagues, the suggestions that have been made, we will think about them as to whom they have addressed them. The only thing I would ask is that there be some logic, because the same factions are speaking and they are calling for the unity of Ukraine. But one calls for Ukraine's unity through the adoption of a law that will not unite Ukraine in any way in terms of the rehabilitation of the UN-OPA. The second calls for Ukraine’s unity again, which will not unite Ukraine until now, to speak nothing today about Russian. Unfortunately, the situation is what it is, and when we consider the bill, then we will talk about it. I'm commenting because I'm right. Well, scream, scream, scream! These were appeals, announcements, and questions. And the chairman answers the comments that were made. Because here it's accused that Frost didn't vote so hard, that a faction of Communists overturned these votes and so on. Therefore, the presiding officer has the right to explain in accordance with the article of the Rules. Sass, please read the Rules. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. We were to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, registration number 1123. This is National Deputy Artem Szczerbán. But in connection with the disease, he asks that the bill be withdrawn. That's why we're taking it off the table. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. [[concerning the granting of status to children living with disabilities of the blocked Leningrad]] Bill number 1137. Reported by national deputy Zubanov Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, this law is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u32	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please wait. I'm reminding a national MP who screams from a place that we voted yesterday in accordance with the 31st article that these bills are being considered by a reduced procedure, because they are two transitional bills from yesterday's agenda. I repeat. Did you get it? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very important, it is social, it protects the rights of our citizens. And there was a lively discussion in the respective committees and the Supreme Council and government committees. Further arguments have arisen, and I propose that I withdraw this law from the discussion and rework it for the time being. And then I'll bring it in at a different time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u34	Yes, of course. No objections? Yes, have a seat, please. We're looking at the draft Amnesty Law: two bills at 1138, 1138-1. It's a complete procedure here. The first bill, number 1138, will be reported by the national MP, Moysik Volodymir Romanovich. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, yesterday I reported to you the amendments to the Amnesty Act in Ukraine. Today there are two bills under the authorship of School Andrew and Kelestin Wallery, already his own Amnesty Act and another bill, which I am the author of. Both bills are, in fact, identical, not different, but contain some different approaches to applying amnesty in Ukraine. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you both on behalf of the committee, and on behalf of another author not to report on the substance of the laws, because the committee has approved a decision at the request of the authors of the law to return it for further development and along with the committee to create another amnesty law. This is the kind of decision I would ask from the chairman and my fellow national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I would ask that I be deprived of opportunities constantly, from the constant charges of a national MP who prevents me from conducting a session. I can't hear what my colleagues are saying. I'm going to ask you again: I'm going to make a proposal in accordance with the Rules to remove you from the session room. Well, give me a chance to listen. I don't have a chance to hear what the reporter is doing, and you're here to tell me stories. Please repeat your request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich. And respectable colleagues, please don't disturb them. There is a proposal from the committee and from the authors of the amnesty bill today, not to report the substance of the bill, but to withdraw these bills. And with Andrey School and the Law Enforcement Committee, we're going to give you a coherent project. That's the first one. Second, yesterday we adopted in our first reading a change to the Amnesty Law. They influence these two laws. And that would also allow us to reconcile the bills with a new bill that might become law. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. I'm sorry I asked you again because I didn't hear. Yes, please, Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you, Mr. Vladimir, for expressing this position, which I fully support, because here two circumstances have come together, as they say, in one. Yesterday’s support for the bill that regulates the application of amnesty will simply move us to withdraw these bills, come forward with a proposal not to allow the two bills to be selected, but rather to unite the better parts, to propose a single bill that will take into account changes to the regulatory law, before the law that actually regulates the application of amnesty. That would be a common request to you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u40	Yes, dear fellows. The committee head? Please. If they take it off, what will the committee report on the interesting? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished ones! As a result of the lengthy discussion, the committee concluded that the Vladimir Romanovich Moysik bill was the best in its essence, and this was also the result of the findings of the Scientific and Expert Department. At the meeting, however, both drafters agreed that they needed further work. Since it is only up to the Supreme Council to decide how it can and how it can make any other decision on the bill, with a view to speeding up time, we ask you to adopt a bill that Moses worked on and, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account the proposals proposed by the National Deputy School. This is only for the sake of the economy of time, because today with 167 thousand special contingents, you understand what this is about. Some 11,000 and 11,000 of our fellow countrymen will fall under this law. If we want to speed this process up by three weeks, by four weeks, I'm going to propose the option that I just put out here to build on Bill 1138. The second reading takes into account the school’s suggestions. If we don't want to do that, let the committee work on two bills one over and over again for a second first reading. So, Adam Ivanovich, please let the Supreme Council determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u42	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, we're about to be identified. Since there are two proposals, we will be determined by voting. There was a proposal by the authors of the legislative initiative. They're asking for bills to be drafted. And there was a proposal by the committee of profile not to accept this proposal, but to consider it and make the appropriate decision that the committee proposed. That's why I'm putting to the vote, asking for support, for the withdrawal of the National Deputies of Moses and the School from today's draft amnesty laws. Registration numbers 1138, 1138-1. Please vote. [[10:47:30.]] For 333 Decision taken. So we supported the proposal of the authors of the legislative initiative. Please, Moses, please. Strutovic, I'm sorry, Strtovic. Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, in this case the Supreme Council’s mandate is to comply with article 97 of the Rules for Harmonization and Implementation of the Only Harmonized Project, which will already be developed by the Committee with the participation of the two legislators. The appropriate determination is given to you in the material. Please vote, and we'll introduce a new bill in two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u44	It is, but it's not like that. Because we didn't look at the drafts, we sent them to the authors themselves, not the committee, but the authors. If they agree to do so, we will be happy, and we cannot oblige them to do so. If we were to consider, we would have made such a decision, but we did not consider it. Let us turn to the next question. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the objectivity of establishing new natural gas tariffs for the population and the related consequences of changing tariffs to municipal services, registration number 2025 and is an alternative 2025-1. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Get acid ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u45	Yes, sorry, Julia Volodymyrna. I ask you to sign up for this talk so that we can see how much time we can spend on it. Please record. Yes, as many as 60 people were enrolled. So let's say the report, the answers to the questions, the report, the co-report on the alternative, also, then the committee report, the answers to the questions, and since 60 people, let's take, well, 21 minutes. Please, Sass, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u46	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, national deputy of Sas, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Adam Ivanovich, you were one of the participants in the development of the Supreme Council Rules, and remember how long we fought to establish order for the word from the rostrum, that is. To root out that practice that was in the previous calling. You know that according to article 35, part 1, each faction is given first and the writing takes place in this way. And then 15 minutes out of every question is left to the national MPs. So first you have to record from the factions and determine order, then from the national MPs personally. You've been confusing this since the beginning, please don't violate the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u47	Yes, but not quite so. Each faction has the right to a guaranteed performance, and if it so requires, it will receive such a right. In accordance with the articles of the Rules, the record is recorded as it happens. Excuse me, Julia Volodymyrna, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Today our faction has initiated and will insist on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will carefully understand what is happening today in Ukraine in the system of setting new tariffs on gas and other municipal services. I think it is clear to everyone in Ukraine today that the new coalition, the new government, the new authorities have declared a tariff war on the people of Ukraine. And I think that's exactly what they're doing with the unification of Ukraine, because today, in Kiev, the higher tariffs on all utilities are three times as high as in the Donetsk region two and a half times. As in Lviv, most people today suffer from rising prices for gas, water, light, heat, and so on in the Luhansk region. I think it is now around establishing justice and understanding that these tariffs can also be brought together. Because Ukraine was not yet aware of the extent of the abuses that are taking place today following the imposition of unwarranted tariffs on all services that the population receives. I can tell you this. What people need to remember is that there is nothing in common with setting prices for Russian gas and setting prices for gas for the population. Gas prices do not have to depend on Russian gas prices. I'm going to give you two digits that are now commonly known. A total of 19 billion cubic feet [19 billion cubic metres] of gas is consumed by the U.S. budget institutions. And there's 20.5 billion cubic meters of gas in Ukraine. This means that the gas of our own production is enough to provide the population. But despite this, it is the Ukrainian gas for the population that the price is almost double. We have learned this value carefully. And once again, I want to emphasize the two figures that must be remembered by the people who are being bullied by the new government and the new authority today. Today the cost, the real cost of the price of Ukrainian gas is negative 114 dollars. That's 11.4 -- that's what people are used to. But the holiday price today is set at 44 bracelets. So 444. But people get an account there for 44 bracelets they know this number. The point is that gas prices are deliberately higher. And they've brought up prices for all utility tariffs -- heat, hot water, electricity -- and basically, there's a lot of gas machination. This gas manipulation began when President Kuchma, Yanukovic, Prime Minister, led NAK Naftogaz, today's head of Minpalevenergo, Mr. Boyko. They set up such a threefold company in 2004 in Ukraine, such as RosUkreenergo, which for senior officials in Ukraine began to launder about $2 billion a year with living money that was taken from Ukraine and removed from every enterprise and from every person. This means that this company is deliberately set up to take the remaining money that people still have out of Ukraine. In recent years, this company has increased, entered the internal market, seized gas deposits, and is now the only monopolistic natural gas supplier in Ukraine. And as before, this company has a direct bearing on both the founding and the administration, the same senior officials have a direct bearing on it: the same Yanukovic, the same Boyko. And today they're continuing the program of capture of Ukraine through RosUkrEnergo, through the handover of packages of lies, the miscroses of this company. And I can tell you today that the gas distribution network ownership program has already reached such an extent that it needs to be intervened by a special commission of inquiry. I can tell you that if this process is finally completed, the district gasses that belong to this monopoly structure, by affecting NCRE through certain mechanisms, will set the population's prices for gas, which will make their profits up to private owners, and the people will create boundless losses that will cause each family to go bankrupt. And I know that this process is being transferred to Ukraine's transit gas transport system today. What is happening today with this money that is being taken out of the population by natural gas and other utilities are also entering the gas system? They're all counting RosUkrenergo to the last penny. There's nothing going on to restore networks, nothing going on to increase wages for those people who work in the gas transport system as a whole. And that means that today the profits of RosUkrEnergo from two billion in 2004 are turning into five billion dollars a year in 2006. I want all of us to understand that it is corruption, the abuse of power today, that has led every family to suffer from price increases. In addition, I would like the people who are now listening to us on the radio or watching on television to know that there is a separate gas channel in Ukraine for the Yanukovich clan. Today, a company controlled by Rinato Ahmut received a separate supply channel of 2 billion cubic metres of natural gas for its corporations at a very different price. And that means that for a nation, at one price, and for those who put the nation in that situation, at another price. I want to ask you, is this a question that doesn't need the work of a special commission of inquiry? He needs it. And that's why today we're proposing to create such a commission. We propose to extend the rights of this commission to a thorough, detailed, thorough study of this issue, all the totally factions, without exception, represented proportionally in this commission. And we're proposing that the leadership of this commission put on Mikola Sivolski, who has experience leading the control and audit board in the government that I worked in, who knows, all the perfect shadow equipment that's going on in the gas system today. And I think it is, if the authorities are honest and open to such research, that they will direct the opposition itself. And if the authorities are afraid of control and responsibility, they will immediately drag this commission on to themselves and practically cover up the crimes that are being committed today in relation to every person in the state. That is why I would like to see this ruling put to the vote now. The creation of this decree, the creation of this commission, and if it is led by a representative of the opposition, it will show that the authorities are not afraid of any checks, no controls. So please put this question to a vote and stop the abuse. Our goal is to return to gas the tariff that existed to such a rip-off approach to set tariffs on gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u49	Please register if you have any questions. Yes, please, 5 minutes Boris Bespalley.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u50	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, we all understand that there is a problem. At the same time, the commission, headed by Mr. Derkac, is working in the right direction and is a member of Mr. Sivuliski, whom you propose to be the chairman of the commission that will not be. Don't you realize that in order for work to be as effective as possible, it would just be a commission headed by Mr. Pickles, to change a little bit, to expand the mandate of her activities, and that she would be, otherwise, just out, like, seven babysitters in which the child was properly raised. Moreover, what you are proposing to the head of the commission of Mr. Sivullski makes your decision unacceptable, for at the same time a deputy cannot be a member of two committees. So it turns out we're just going to talk, and we're not going to make a decision. So you don't think you need less, maybe a commission, or a more efficient commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u51	Well, first of all. Mr. Sivuliski has filed an application to resign from this commission and will work, if the decision of the Supreme Council is made, to work on this commission as head. It's different. That committee you're talking about has a completely different direction of action. It deals with the misuse of material and technical resources, decomposes the entire financial balance that relates to the abuse of Naftogaz by NAC. The same commission has a completely different direction. This is the formation of the cost of gas. This is the formation of the cost of other tariffs for all without excluding services. And this is quite a lot of work that needs special people, a special assignment. And what's more, today in society for the average person is the most resonant question. Today, every family will receive these bills in shock, and this family knows that it will not be able to handle these accounts. And if Parliament remains inactive in this situation, it will simply be totally heartless and wrong for those people who need help today. In the amount of work these two committees will be practically overloaded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u52	Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u53	Julia Vladimirovna, everything has a history. And the gas situation that happened in Ukraine, too. We know the history of the late 1990s, we know the history of the 2000s, we know the activities of the 2004 Governments, and all of this has affected both then and now the population, the formation of budgets. Do you plan that the commission you are proposing will study all these problems and report to the people an honest and open history of why we have come to such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u54	Yes, I am convinced that this commission can take the whole history of the issue from the beginning of the creation of an independent Ukraine. But what's important is that we don't have to ask this question and figure out in a concrete way -- setting the tariff on gas almost 3.5 times higher than it needs to be worth the product. And I made clear where the money that comes from today is being taken from every citizen of Ukraine. And when these profits go to RosUkrEnergo, let's figure out who from RossUkrEnergo gets these profits on the government Olympics. Please, what are some other questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u55	Serbian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u56	Please give the floor to the Turkish deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u57	Please, the Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u58	Dear Julia Volodymyrical, you may know that literally an hour before your report we were given an alternative so-called decision to create a commission of inquiry with the same name. I'd like the MPs to point out that this decision is just a handful. The people who prepared it even followed some words to change -- they copied your decision to each other. The only thing they're offering is the commission's head from an anti-crisis coalition. Don't you think it's only done to block the investigation of these issues and cover up the corruption schemes that are being created in the gas market today and continue to abuse our populations during the fall-winter period?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u59	Indeed, I have seen this determination and I understand that today an anti-crisis coalition that has created a crisis now in the tariff system that has declared a tariff war to virtually all citizens of Ukraine, is trying to conceal this outright abuse and they want to place it on the authority of the head of the special commission of inquiry. I want to ask, why create special investigation committees to the authorities, if they are the authorities themselves, and they can figure out in their own official offices? And I'm convinced that if there's even a drop of honor left in this power, the commission of inquiry must always lead the opposition's representatives, if that's the case with the abuse of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Report on the alternative project 2025-1. Basil Kiselov, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u61	Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian national deputies to the results of yesterday's roll-call vote that I am holding in my hands right now, and that you can extract from your computer. Personally, it is not surprising to me that the faction of Timoshenko, which initiated the issue of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the personal composition of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the issue of the charges of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, did not vote in favour of this decision yesterday. Yes, yesterday's vote in favour of this project, as a whole, in which I'm calling your attention, to the committee of the representative of the BUT faction of the Honorable Fellow Omelchenko did not vote in favour of the 104 members of the BUT factions, 2 voted against and only 22 supported their proposal, where they took 2 hours yesterday. In my opinion, this suggests that those who are constantly lying from this rostrum understand that they have to answer. [[Applause]] You're going to have to answer for the constant slanders you've been throwing at the press all the time. Because, personally, I never, I emphasize, I never agree with the overall accusation that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are mythical hundreds of billions of dollars and so forth. I'm on the list of the Party of the Regions and I went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under number 34, and I swear to my children that I didn't give a penny to anyone for getting on the list and not taking it from anyone. [[Applause]] And I'm going to demand that these people be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u62	Vasil Alexiyovich. Excuse me, please, let's do this on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u63	And now I'm sorry, I had the right to repeat. Thus, the fear of those who are constantly lying from this rostrum, which needs to be answered, forces them to block the work of the temporary commission that they have proposed to create. And you understand why my colleague's hysterical reaction to my bill of responsibility for slander. And in general, where did you say you caught in my bill that it was directed against the media? And now, essentially, the question. And now, basically, my alternative project on creating a Temporary Investigation Commission. So given that this is a very high social and political issue, but understanding that the objective conclusions of the work of the TSK of the Supreme Council do not need this faction, and I've already given examples of how they took part in the voting for their projects, I suggest, and this is in the project, to choose the head of the TSK of Ukraine, the TSK of this committee of Alexandrov's Alla Alexandrovna. Clearly, this is not a member of the Party of Regions. It is quite clear that the BUT factions would like the head to be the representative of its faction, so that the work of another TSC would succeed in letting it go. Because I'm sure the committee's conclusions will be inconsolable for the BUT faction. And it's not just words, I'll give you the arguments below. The second difference. [[Don't interrupt. It's bad.]] I ask you to define the duration of the TSC not six months, as Timoshenko suggests, but three months. You don't need to delay the process. The following distinction. The previous TSC report is not three months from now, but a month from now. In addition, when considering the question, I would like to take into account, my distinguished colleagues, that all of us have received a preliminary report and conclusions from the Interim Commission of Inquiry on the verification of the natural gas situation of Ukrainian consumers, the head of which is Andry Derkac. I'm asking you to look at it very carefully. And I'm going to quote you a few points. Here's the report. “In 2005, control of the state of affairs in the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine, particularly in the gas sector, was not systematically carried out. As a result of conflicting actions, a number of errors in the government's gas market have deteriorated significantly.” In the absence of time, I will not read, you will see. But here you can see who is to blame for what is happening in Ukraine. And I would also like to ask you to pay attention to the project of Rudzkowski and Polakow, which I also have in my hands, on the same issue. And another suggestion that I ask you to discuss. In view of the unsatisfying implementation of the 2005 State Budget, I'm going to be making a draft decision on the creation, once the fashion has gone, of creating a TSC to identify the reasons for the unsatisfactory implementation of the 2005 budget, I stress 2005 budget. In addition, I would like to ask your support to include in the decision that we are about to make to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's TSC, which we are currently discussing, an item to verify the justification for the cancellation of EUESU debts in excess of.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u64	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Yes, please, questions. Please sign up for the question. You will receive a reply after you have discussed the matter. Please sign up for questions. Three minutes, Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u65	From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u66	Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u67	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not uncommon for the Supreme Council to be used, I'd say, for a political crack. So I'm asking you to distinguish between each other, the truth from the application. But basically the question is, we have this gas problem, the meat problem arises, the sugar comes up, and so endless is the chain, the chain. Say, please, there's a reason and there's a result, so those committees that are planning to work, they're going to look at the consequences when prices have gone up, or the reasons that have given birth to those, the rise that we have systematically? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u68	Thank you, colleague, for asking. Of course, I won't answer this question briefly, because I know I've analyzed how many temporary commissions have been created in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which have been the result, the results for most commissions are virtually not. That's why I'm so glad you asked me that question. I think that the people of Ukraine will hear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will look not only at the consequences of what the government is doing but will look for reasons and root out these mistakes. Or perhaps rooting out, and then evaluating those specific officials who are now in power, then creating five, six crises. Dishonestly, they are retired, and after six months they are again in power, which means that they have enjoyed themselves. So I want to say to the end, don't interrupt, because I want to say that I'm convinced that we're going to make the right decision with you and make the commission work. If you accept the alternative project I've put in place, the commission will work. My colleague Alexandrovska is a very careful and prepared politician. She can run this commission. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u69	Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u70	Vladimir Kureny, Yulia Timoshenko, Odessa. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u71	Vassil Alexiyovich, what's bothering me? So you're all right about the need to check reasonable tariffs. What's the matter? You have made the same determination by not changing a single word in the name and basis of Timoshenko’s decree. And, well, there's a moment here that's ethical, correct and so on. I'd like to hear it. And secondly, I don't know any country in the world where the authorities control themselves through the Interim Commissions. The idea of the Interim Commission of Inquiry is to monitor the legality of the rule of law. You're like a political power that's formed power, you say that power is wrong and we'll control it. Is it possible that the coalition has fallen apart? So explain the logic behind why this committee was created by you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u72	I, my dear colleagues, am looking at you now and thinking, what are you factions from? Maybe you're already out of the BIT faction because I didn't pass. I made an alternative, because I want this issue to be addressed. And not for six months you pulled the cat by the tail, but three months later, there were conclusions. And not three months earlier, it was just a month. This is the first time. And second of all, your question. So I'm sorry, but if the government does something wrong, we, the coalition, will ask him. This is definitely true. [[B in m in s a l in]] And today what you want, I've already said in my speech. You'd like to put Sivullski on the board so that I can, I've already said, run the commission. I don't think we're gonna let you do that. And given that this is a very social and political issue, we will work for the people of Ukraine, for the electorate. And thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u73	Have a seat, please. He will report back to us on this matter from the Paidimir Mihajlovich Preparatory Committee. Please. The noun will record his Jubilee. Please. Yes, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs. I'd like to say, with your permission, that I am the head of the Economic Policy Committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I addressed Adam Ivanovich as chairman of the meeting. A draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the objectivity of establishing new natural gas tariffs for the population and the related consequences of changing tariffs for utility services by the deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, registration number 2025, dated September 4, 2006. Came to the committee last Friday, September 8th. Since the previous meeting of the committee took place on September 6, the question was urgently brought into line with the agenda of the Committee’s day. By the way, considering that, according to the mandate of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft decree should be worked out in addition to our, the Main Committee, on four other committees from which no conclusions have yet been reached. We moved our committee meetings from Wednesday 13th to Thursday, September 14th, so that other committees at their meetings today would draw such conclusions and make a committee. In addition, I would like to point out that two other similar draft regulations have been made by the National Deputies to establish a temporary commission of inquiry – registration number 1229 of August 2 and 1269 of August 4 precisely to investigate the situation of gas supply for consumers and gas calculations. It would be appropriate, therefore, and considering that another 2025 - 1 decree has been registered today, it would be appropriate to consider all the decisions together. Thus, the Economic Policy Committee plans to consider draft regulations for the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the objectivity of the new natural gas tariffs established for the population and the related consequences of changing tariffs to municipal services at the next meeting on September 14, 2006. I invite all the authors of the orders made and listed for the sitting. And speaking to the committee heads who have been drafted by the Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you today to draw such conclusions and to give a committee. I assure you that the conclusion of the economic policy committee will not be politicized, well - founded, and on Friday morning it will be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u75	I don't know whether to ask questions. Probably not, for this is a confirmation of what some faction accused the presiding officer of violating the Rules all day yesterday. Here's an example of a violation of the Rules, when we're looking at issues without a committee, and here's not just an economic policy committee, but here's what I think the Rules Committee should say when I set up the TSC. There is neither conclusion nor other, but we are considering this today, and the honourable Sass, who was all day yesterday accusing the chairman of breaking the Rules, today, unfortunately too silent. Yes, have a seat, please. Get a line. Have a seat, please. Yes, we are, but the issue is already under consideration, so we will continue to consider it despite violating the Rules. Yes, once again, we have 60 national deputies to participate in the discussion. Look, please, on the board, it's totally okay with everything that's been said here, that it's not from factions. It's swapped from factions. All fractions change, all according to article 33 of the Rules. Let us then take 25 minutes to make a statement and be determined. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, prepare Pucherenko Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u76	May I have the floor to the national deputy Thurman Viktor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u77	Please, Victor Turmanov, prepare Alexia Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! It is clear that the rise in prices and tariffs on gas and electricity is currently the most relevant, resonant problem affecting the vital interests of the vast majority of our citizens. And we all know that this problem is not today and was born much earlier. As a result of irresponsible, thoughtless, anti-national actions by the orange authorities, headed by the last two Governments. Indeed, it was with their approval and consent that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine waived its prior agreements with trade unions not to take decisions on price issues without the implementation of preventive social protection measures and, above all, the most underprivileged sectors of the population. Therefore, the mechanism for increasing gas prices, electricity and utilities has been developed by previous rulers. Therefore, the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, you are well aware of the fact that you have been informed by respected colleagues, have examined a number of large-scale protests throughout Ukraine, requiring constitutional observance of the social rights of workers and the population to ensure a sufficient standard of living. However, as you know the positive reaction of the former authorities to these demands, there was virtually nothing. Today, the Federation of Trade Unions has appealed to the courts and trials are under way. I believe that, in this situation, our efforts should be directed towards the implementation of measures and the search for ways and the adoption of fundamental decisions to remedy the legacy of the current situation. And it is necessary for the Supreme Council and the people today to know the reasons why this has happened, and to know the true picture that is so beautifully spoken from this rostrum. In my view, this should be a whole range of measures and social protection for the population, including a set of truly adequate measures to raise the income of the population. The relevant regulations should be clearly stated and subsidies should be made available to the relevant categories of the population. And I would like to conclude by saying that the faction of the Regions has considered this very matter today, it's a very political issue, it's getting worse here today, and most of all people are waiting for us. We will therefore support the establishment of an investigative commission to set new tariffs on electricity, gas and utilities at number 2025-1. And whoever said that, we trust this commission to be headed by a representative from the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u79	Please, Alexy Kucherenko, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Tuckenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u80	Dear friends! Alexy Kucherenko faction "Our Ukraine." It's hard and easy for me to talk today. It's hard because it's really a very big problem. And I'm like the head of the Department of Housing and Communion in the government of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, and as the head of the Housing Committee today, believe me, I know and understand this problem very well. On the other hand, we realize that today, unfortunately, it's not really professional, it's become political. And that's why I'd like to make my speech not to make a declaration on the whole of Ukraine, who loves and advises for the people -- "Our Ukraine," BUT, regions, communists or your Ukraine. And I would like to tell you that we have to do everything today, and this is our Ukraine's position to maximize the depoliticization of this problem. Because we're going to have to deal with it right away. In this regard, I would first like to point out to my esteemed colleague who has just spoken out, that this problem is not the Orange Authority. This problem has accumulated since 1991. And all the governments without exception, and the government of Yehanurov, Timoshenko, Kinaha, Yanukovitch and the Desert, unfortunately, have not been able to make a real state regulation system. This is the wine, by the way, and ours with you as a deputy corps. This is the first time. The second. I'd like to inform you that a committee meeting yesterday has considered this issue and we have made a completely professional decision to prepare our draft decision, which I think we will discuss with our colleagues from the Platinum Committee of Economic Policy, from another committee to offer us a practical and professional solution to this problem. We would also like to point out that there are two aspects to this problem. First of all, there is a real problem: where the gas of its own production goes and what RossUkrenergo does in our market. And we need to make a political decision, or we need to trust the Commission of the Ripper, and we need to expect some concrete results, or we need to create a new interim commission. The faction “Our Ukraine” decided here, in the session room, to support the proposal and draft decision of Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko, because we believe that from the creation of the new commission, as a minimum, we will not lose, and we will get some additional information and it will be perfectly logical to do so, this commission, and accept the proposal of the opposition faction. On the other hand, we are confident that no commission of inquiry will give us with you mechanisms for a practical professional solution to this problem. So we suggest that we wait for the conclusions and recommendations of the profile committees and take a new decision together at the end of the week, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u81	Alexander Tkachenko tells Mikola Kravchenk, please, the Communist faction, to prepare. Kuzmenko is handing over Volza.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u82	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, respected bodies and radio listeners. The Communists have always opposed rising prices for utilities and we are behind in action on this issue. And we're here today to figure out what's going on today, why it's getting bigger and who's to blame. The foundations, you must tell you, of the commission that will be created, will immediately see that the foundations are laid by the Government of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. The foundations of today's situation were established back in the year 95 when Kuchma, Lazarenko and Timoshenko broke the gas market, removed the Ukrainian gas that was mined here, introduced into their schemes, and made huge money. We're here today to figure out who's sitting on the well and who's working on these schemes today. We are here today to understand objectively in which regions the way and how utilities are promoted. We're here today to figure out why we got promoted in Donetsk. But we want to know why in Poltava the representative of BUT, the head of the district council, also raised prices. Apparently, there are objective conditions that I mentioned above that affect the price of gas today. We need to figure out who caused the breakup of relations with Russia by gas. To your attention, we have received 17 billion dollars. 50 bucks worth of gas. With the Government of Timoshenko, this treaty has been broken and thus we have what we have. Communists will vote in favour of Bill 2025-1 because the Communist Alexandrovska – an objective and literate person – is headed there. I think she'll answer all those questions. I'm making a proposal. The fourth paragraph of that regulation, which I said, 2025, reads as follows: “To commission a special commission to examine the legality of the write-off of seven and a half billion bracelets by “One Energy Systems” and to direct these money to the reduction of communal tariffs”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u83	Yes, please, from the faction of Volga Socialists. Kuzmenko gave it to him. And Giedenko's sending from BET Serbia to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u84	Dear national MPs, distinguished TV, radio listeners. I think you know that the traditional sign of Ukrainian politics has already been Pharisee. I want to remind you of some important points. 1995 Ukraine’s only energy systems then occupied the entire energy market. The price of gas from $44 per year per night was from $44 to $83. It seems to me that it was in vain to smile, Julia Volodymyrna. First. The other one. 2005 Public control day in and day out was hurling letters from the CIA and the person you're talking about, who's supposed to lead this interim commission of inquiry, that the gas situation is like this. Why, then, did they not listen? The numbers of public control already called it $6-8 per thousand cubic meters per Ukrainian gas. They didn't listen. And now it's convenient. How did this happen? It turns out that some of the faction members at the Board of Rippers heard these figures because that's what the Board of Rippers is currently working on and decided to take a political initiative. They came running and said, “Julia Volodymyrna, and let us strike now.” I'm calling on the entire team, the entire coalition team, I'm asking you not to vote for it. It's a separate decision to give the commission that's already working, that's systemic, that it's not an opportunity, it's an opportunity, it's an opportunity, it's an opportunity to report on this and it's working. Expand the mandate of the commission. Among other things, yesterday there was a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In this statement, there was a clear proposal -- making, you know, not ephemeral, and more than that, we've already got enough stuff on the committee. Not an ephemeral but a real commission composed of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all factions are delegated there, from the NCRE and the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's these numbers and these data that the Commission of the Ripper has already taken, and you, including, thanks to the Commission of the Ripper, are the very data given in order to study and find a way out. But right now, quickly, without politics, which one of us is going to create a commission, who's going to be more right or less right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u85	Yes, please, Yuri Serbin faction of Block Timoshenko, behind him Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, surely, the issue that we are considering is political. And I, as a member of the BIT faction, support this decision. But let's move on for a minute or three minutes, as far as I'm concerned, to a professional consideration of this issue. Note the first point. It says that the commission is tasked with examining the methodology of prices. What do we have to do with pricing now? Prices are based on actual costs that are on every supplier company. They don't in any way encourage the supplier to introduce an economy, energy conservation regime and everything. There are normal mechanisms. And we suggest that this commission, the previous decision, this commission should offer these normal mechanisms in order for these tariffs to be economically sound. And that even for external gas we can not raise prices for utilities and other supplies to our enterprise if we make science-based norms, and they're practical, we just have to consider them. And if the supplier pays for his spending out of his pocket, then finally the reform of the housing and economics economy will go, and the main thing for our people is that it's going to lower the tariffs on gas. Here's what we're proposing. That's the first one. The second question. Of course, who controls it? Here the previous deputy said that there were commissions and cabinets of ministers, and NCRE said everything else. It's not gonna be that big a deal. And that's because they're bad, and because it's really a monitoring and tracking commission, it's the first. That's different. We now have control of NCRE, which is totally dependent on the Cabinet of Ministers. I understand that in order to get NHRE out of the Cabinet of Ministers, it takes serious changes, even the Constitution. But we do have an example of the NHRI control commission by means of communication or communication. So let's think about it, we can do that. Then, if the people who join the committee are appointed president and are almost guaranteed for five years that they will not be removed, then they can objectively look at the question of how the new methodology is being implemented. I don't agree with my colleague Kucherenko that this committee can't do this because there are experts who can do this. Surely a commission is needed for the Antimonopoly Committee. Of course, Parliamentary hearings are needed during the commission’s work because this is a concern for the whole nation. So let's step away from the political component a little bit, because you can't silently exclude it, but this is the commission that needs to work. The task of the Commission of the Ripper is not to be exaggerated. Let her do her job. And she's going to have to do that global task. And please, let's just forget politics for a moment and vote for what's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Igor Zvaric gives the word to Oleg Panasovski, please. After him, Bespallian. That's not the cook. He's working at the Cabmine, and there's a meeting coming up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, in order to avoid the decline in the rating of parties represented on the Supreme Council and the loss of personal authority from their constituents, none of the people's deputies from that rostrum will openly support the idea of raising public service tariffs. However, I am absolutely sure that if Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko were the Prime Minister of the Government today, she would not have come forward with the proposal to set up an investigative commission, but would have advocated them and convinced the people's deputies of the need and whether they should be promoted. And there's an explanation for that. Let's look at this and react not from the point of view of excited statisticians, but from the point of view of cold-blooded realists. It has been during the past year and a half, including the period of the Prime Minister of Yulia Vladimirovna, that the cost of electricity production has increased by 35 per cent through increased coal and gas prices. It is precisely unacceptable that the high share of the fuel component — electricity — has been the result of the current public sector situation. The increase in fuel prices has led to an increase in the fuel content of a tariff of more than 90 per cent, with a limit of 70 per cent on previous experience in the work of the USSR, Ukraine and international experience. Even so, electricity tariffs will not only ensure the future development of the energy company but also their ongoing activities. To ensure the operation of the power plant today, credit resources are required and unliquidated loans currently exceed 1.6 billion bracelets. This fact cannot affect the public sector and services. It's a dead end. And no commission of inquiry, in a comprehensive study of the problem, would propose anything substantial, but would only confirm the need to increase tariffs. Question one. What are the tariff thresholds. I am not opposed to the work of the commission of inquiry, however, I doubt its impact. I believe that it is more effective in this situation to examine, review and adopt a draft Supreme Council regulation, registration number 1055, on the implementation of a single State system for monitoring production, supply, transport, consumption and payment of fuel and energy resources and housing services developed by specialists and scientists of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which provides for the establishment of a single State methodological centre for the approval of the methods, calculations, forms and standards of the system. Please support my proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Boris Bespali. It's Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u90	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, well, I'm not going to talk about the essence of the problem, it's exactly the result, it's going to be the result of the commission's work, and we're going to be able to tell if it's going to be created by now and how it is, but the fact of the matter cannot be ignored. In short, gas prices are rising and we all feel that they're growing groundlessly, so they're increasing more than they're supposed to be. And it's probably not up to the MPs to look at it calmly. The branch is of course monopolized, there's the dominant position of individual corporations, and here it's surprised by the role of the antimonopoly committee, more specifically that it doesn't work, well maybe its head as. What he is and is a deputy, that's what he's given. I think we need to pay attention for one more moment. We have a committee from the parliamentary fuel and energy complex, and we need to activate its control functions in this case as well. There is also a commission that I mentioned in my question to Mr. Derac. We could have done without creating a new commission by extending the authority of the commission where Mr. Derkach works. That would be, by the way, very logical, and I think that would be a better way out. But, at the same time, we see the mood in the session room, we see that behind those draft regulations that have been made, there are clearly enough deputies to create a commission. I need 150 votes. So you can actually assume that the commission is going to be created just as new. What, then, is the basis for the decision? From our point of view, they're really a little different. But then the question arises: Why are there two of them if they are so few? It seems to me that in such a case, I have to choose the basis for the draft decision that was made first, the one that was introduced by Mrs. Timoshenko, the more that I personally cannot tolerate plagiarism, and I didn't understand why it was necessary to rewrite her project to change it there for three months for one month and in this way to solve it. So the suggestion is not to vote on the decision at once as a whole or with observations, but to take the basis of the project that Mr. Kiselov introduced, to change the terms, i.e. to really define the term of the commission's activities six months from now, and to make the report in one month. And with such amendments, it could be accepted. And, at the same time, you have to figure it out. definition of the Supreme Council as regards Mr. Sivuliski. If he is to be the head of this commission, and we stand for it, it is better for him to be led by a representative of the opposition, then he must be expelled from the commission headed by Mr. Picker. We expect that our proposals will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u91	Samuel, please pass the word to Peter Simonck. Get ready, there's only one minute left in Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I express my position on this issue on the need to form a special commission of inquiry, the Communist faction will vote in favour of the draft in which the Chairman of the Commission is invited to approve Alexandrovska. In view of the fact that the role of the ad hoc commission should be excluded today as a factor in the concealment of past financial, economic and political crimes in previous years and the provision of sound assessments to Parliament today on which we will take on the State's importance. Why am I having this conversation? Ukraine has tremendous resources. We have coal at least 100 years in advance. We have the opportunity to extract five million tons of oil annually and up to 20 billion cubic metres of gas. That is, the question of the establishment of an investigative commission today and the question of tariffs is the question of the country's State energy security policy. It is this issue that must initially be resolved. Secondly, I want today to answer the question: what exactly do I do? To ask each of us today the question: Dear People's Deputies, please tell us, how much did you pay for gas in the 91st year? Do you remember anyone who paid for the gas in the '91st year? Or 91, how much did they pay for the gas? You did not even take this into account in family budgets because public policy was aimed at protecting energy security and the proper distribution of raw materials. Therefore, with regard to the use of gas today, in an independent State of Ukraine, we must recognize that gas is used as a resource for the enrichment of the royal company. And the issue of the Commission today is that one quarter have been separated from the use of this gas resource and billions have been redistributed into their own pockets and the other one has come. That is why I invite you to vote once and for all to have Alexandrovsky lead the Commission. Noah would like us to consider with you the stages of the struggle to enrich certain groups in the gas problem. 91 - this is where the problem of gas became political. It was the political forces that came to Parliament to preach nationalism and the pro-Western vector of Ukraine's development that used the issue of energy security as a political issue. 94095 is the capture of the presidential gas transport system. The Prime Minister and, of course, the President "crush" began this structure. Once again, I would like to emphasize that it is with the Single Energy System that the economic independence of the country has begun to be destroyed. It is the Single Energy Systems that have created barter schemes, the Single Energy Systems all of which have resulted in the withdrawal of enormous capital into off-shore zones and the destruction of the country's independence. That's why, comrades, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. Please, one minute left. Terrence's handing over to the Turk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I think all three minutes have gone by, and I don't think we should limit the performance. You know, dear friends, I'm listening to our communists. And I want to remind them: friends, enough demagogies, you're already in Cuba, you're in power, and you're in power. The same thing I'm saying to the Regions, you don't have to copy the opposition's rulings, you don't have to be ashamed that you don't even know how to change the letters if you even make it your own decision. You know, we're seeing a full, 100 percent resurgence of "Quishmism" today. Today, when the opposition can't drop anything, they start to invent, you know, dirty cases that have been closed down by the courts dozens of times. In fact, even in the days of Kuchma, the opposition could no longer create an investigative commission. It was our right, you're even afraid of it. You're afraid that we're going to create a commission of inquiry and we're going to show that you're hiding from the demagogies and you're dealing with a banana derby, and you're selling four times more of the value of a population of gas than you're producing in Ukraine. We can talk about yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u95	Thank you, sit down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat: an hour. Dear colleagues, we've taken 25 minutes to discuss. 25 minutes left, one minute to go. There'd be four, someone else would've used one. It doesn't matter, well, it got so bad that it got on. This isn't the first time. That's the first one. The other one. Simonenko agreed to the end because he had time. He spoke in his own time. Mr. Kirilchuk, don't wave your hands, save your energy. The other one. We just said it would be, everything will be according to the Rules. And I just got off the phone with the "Council" system. In fact, we're going to have to write twice. So far, the "Council" system is not ready for this. Hopefully tomorrow they're going to try to give us an experiment that we're going to write down from factions first, and then we're going to write it down from the national MPs. Although those who enter the factions are national deputies. So far, that's how it works. Question completed. Final word, please report. Three minutes. Then, if you want acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u96	I think that the discussion that has just gone on is a powerful indication that the opposition has touched the very right question. These emotions, which the authorities have just embellished, ranging from image to humiliation, to abandoning the truth at all, show that precisely where the price of Ukrainian gas has been raised four times is unfounded and there are major abuses, and there is major corruption, and there are the main benefits of the Yanukovic clan today. I am not surprised that the Communists are so radically opposed to our decision, and that they are so radically pushing their representative to close the back of the Yanukovich clan today. The answer is very simple. Today, every former Communist Party member knows that the Communist Party is privatized by the Yanukovic clan. And that's why it's so emotional. [[Applause]] That's why you're emotional. I know that now, when privatized, we need to speak in unison, and we need our remains of some authority there to cover up the disgrace that the country is living with today, and that has turned out to be a tremendous increase in tariffs. So today it's absolutely a test question. And we're willing to support today to cut this commission short for a little bit from three to one months, and we're interested in that, and we're asking you to consider our proposals right now. I think we're going to check today if the leader of this commission is put out of the opposition, so the authorities have nothing to hide, if they put some, there's a lady who's always been a protection for all the clans in Ukraine in shadow mode, so there's abuse and they're just afraid of the opposition. These are obvious things. But last but not least, remember that today, too, the so - called power coalition has given rise to such certain notions that tariffs are rising correctly. The tariffs are rising wrongly on gas. We can go back to the old prices and this will not affect the gas sector. When I was Prime Minister, the gas cost 17, now 44. And that's why I think there is, where there is today to find corruption. Please put the order to the vote first. We need to get 150 votes and we'll figure it out. With the changes that Mr. Bespalov has announced. We accept these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u97	Please, Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, on the question of why my colleagues should have copied, I would like to remind them of the need to watch the Rules. And if I were to change, starting with a name, I know how it's done in the Secretariat, Praise God, there's a very great experience, 16 years in the Supreme Council of Crimea. And you'd run him around like a new bill. You understand. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to answer one question. Yesterday you were in power, honors, who today disgrace this power, you forgot who brought you to this power. You don’t remember family as they say. And finally. I would like to quote you from the conclusions of the Board of Ripper, two sentences that I have not been able to say in the absence of time when I was speaking. In 2005, as a result of ununderstanding and unprofessional negotiating policies, prices of imported natural gas rose by 80 percent, which had a very negative impact on the state of the Ukrainian economy. At the same time, the government raised prices for natural gas for the population and the budgetary institutions, leading to a general increase in the tariffs of the LHC. The financial situation of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” has deteriorated significantly as a result of the decline in profits from companies as a result of the reduction in natural gas re-export in 2005 and the sharp decline in payments for consumed populations and economic operators and the misperforming of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, covering the deficit of circulation costs due to external borrowing and the significant use of non-productive and administrative costs. The deterioration of the situation in Ukraine's gas market has been the result of a weakening of government control over the activities of “Naftogaz Ukraine”. The financial and economic activities of Naftogaz Ukraine and the subsidiaries were committed with significant violations, and in some cases there were signs of criminal offences. So, colleagues, I ask you to support in general my bill with the additions that Kravchenko's colleagues have brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u99	Now, if you'll excuse me. It's a faction of regions, who's it going to be? They've got one minute on the line. Please, Timoshenko, and then the Communists. Timoshenko Julia's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u100	I would like to respond to the allegations that came out of the rostrum that the government that led me has disrupted strategic interstate agreements between Ukraine and Russia. I want to point out that I, as Prime Minister and then as a person who worked in opposition, have been and remain firmly against the work of RosUkreenergo, because I think that this company is a massive corruption that today leads to an increase in the unwarranted price of gas in terms of the real value of four times. We have been and remain in favour of working out those agreements between Russia and Ukraine equal to the interstate agreements that fixed the price of gas as it was by 2010. And so if I were to return to office, first, there was no Rosenergo. And second, the old prices for gas for the population would have been returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u101	Yeah, from the Communist faction. Simonenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The company has consistently advocated the right to national security and the right of citizens to a decent life today. I would like to draw attention to the need to investigate. We will have to investigate the root causes of all these gas conflicts, beginning with Kuchma, Lazarenko and Timoshenko. I hope we have to turn to the U.S. Court to provide us with adequate information. Secondly, we need to understand that mass corruption has begun since the work of ESA and Iter when they brought gas here. And we have to remember this structure, which has really happened. Let's move on. You have to understand, there are witnesses in the room who came to ESU and refrigerators to realize that the cost of $100 and the EES requires $50, and all the rest is, excuse me, then it will be. That is why I would like to emphasize once again. We have what we have to explore, study, today against the orange team, of course not only to exhibit emotions, but to take a deep look at what has been done in our relationship with Russia, destroying ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Endless replicas, endless replicas can't be. They've exchanged, they've called each other then they can, dear fellows, let's make sense if you want to act outside the Rules, so that's the one speaking as the other's last name, and they'll be saying it all day long. Question completed. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, perhaps never before have we spent as much time as we did today in creating any temporary investigation committee. There must have never been so much interest in the problem that is being discussed, and everyone here had the opportunity to participate in this discussion, which is more than ten national deputies, talked about the extreme relevance of the issue. No one has denied and no one can deny that prices and tariffs have actually increased on an unprecedented scale, and this affects the vitality of our nation, including our economic security. To sum up our discussion, I would like to stress once again the suggestions that have been made. Without a doubt, in accordance with the Rules, the first would be to vote on a ruling that was passed first and there was no objection. I think there were proposals that were completely supportive, for example, with suggestions, preparing for that question, and I thought about what Boris Bespaly said. Indeed, there is a right, but that will determine the hall. We've created a virtually similar commission of inquiry led by a derrick. She could still be asked to deal specifically with the matter, even though it is wide. They're going to vote. There was an offer about what really is, and here we will have to consider that if I am not mistaken, article 82 of the Rules says that one national MP cannot be a member of several committees, that is, we should consider it with you. And we're going to vote on each of the proposals that came forward. The only thing I'm reminding you is that we need 150 votes to make a decision, because it's the creation of a temporary special commission and it's a constitutional norm, article 89. So I'm going to put them in order of the proposals to come. In view of the fact that there is more than one draft decision, we will accordingly put the first draft of the decision on the basis. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the objectivity of establishing new natural gas tariffs for the population and the related consequences of changing tariffs to municipal services. Registration number 25 filed for replacement today, by Bill Timoshenko. I'd like to make up my mind. Based on the base. [[12:03:32]] For 177 As a basis, it's been accepted. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions. Once again, that's the basis. Based on the base. We're going to vote in general, we're going to need 150 votes, and we're going to need 150 votes, and we're going to need 150 votes. Region Party – 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 117, “Our Ukraine” – 56, Socialists – 4, Communists – 0. What adjustments? Please, Kiselov. Kiselov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I propose in the draft decree to replace the head of the provisional commission. Instead of Sivolski, select Alexandrovsky and make an amendment here to Kravchenk to instruct the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the issue of debt cancellation by the ESA. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u105	Yes, dear colleagues, we will now discuss these proposals. Sign up for these suggestions. Please. Yes, please, five minutes. Stone, Timoshenko block. Timishenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u106	I give you my word, please pass the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u107	Please, Timoshenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u108	Well, you've all witnessed the absurdity of the proposal at all. First. I would ask you now, Adam Ivanovich, to put it all together, because in principle there is someone who will lead this commission. In general, also with the proposals of Bespalogo, put the whole first time to the vote. Because if you replace the commission manager, you can practically not create it, because the authorities will practically take the commission into their own hands. Therefore, the second question is about EES. I am informing you that all judicial decisions to the Supreme Court, including the decisions of the United States, have confirmed that there have never been any abuses. And it's inserting EES to get the question out of the way, not to get people back to normal tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u109	Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u110	Dear National MPs, you know there was stability, practically, in Ukraine over the years about gas prices. Namely, in 2005, two governments and, in particular, oppositionists, populists, who are so eager to help the Ukrainian people, have destroyed the stability of gas prices. 45 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas in 2005 was for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Your actions, like the leaders of the opposition, destroyed prices for the Ukrainian people and led to $95,000 per thousand cubic metres of gas. And that's why you, the hostages and the culprits in front of the Ukrainian people, are in front of these walls. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put Mr. Kiselov to the vote. And the commission will start working, and everything will be fine. Not allowing the opposition to cover up all their shortcomings that they have made in practice in 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u111	Please, Mikola Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u112	Adam Ivanovich, I want to confirm that I actually wrote a statement in case I was elected chairman of the commission. I ask that I be relieved of the responsibilities of a member of the commission headed by Andrew Deracchi. And I'd like to take the floor to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u113	Turk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm asking you to stick to the logic of voting. And the first was a proposal made by the author of this decree to vote on it as a whole. If there is no general vote now, then the amendments may be voted on. And you know how it's done. Because otherwise, there's no sense of voting at all for any investigative committee that's voting at 150, because there's a majority that can always change the meaning of these decisions. That's the first one. And second of all. I want to answer Mr. Simonenko, Kravchenko, etc. You know, for eight years, the Bushmen and the Communists were investigating the EESU case, and the fiasco ended. Now there'll be a second round of investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u115	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! An investigation into the gas situation cannot be commissioned for those who did business in the gas. We know that both the rapporteur and the candidate for the commission have run a gas business in EESU, and we know that the billions of EESU Ukraine from the budget, which means that each of the Ukrainians has settled with Russia on these debts. And, of course, a person who is not a participant in this business must be investigated. And here Mrs. Alexandrovsky or Comrade Alexandrovsky, perhaps more appropriate, is a principled man, who will lead the matter to an honest end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u117	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! May I have the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u119	Kushnarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I think it is clear to all of us that the problem that we are discussing right now needs not only careful but an absolute honest and objective study. We well know that all the disadvantages in this sphere are created not only by gas kings but also by gas queens. Therefore, only a person who has had nothing to do with these processes and who has led to his objectivity and honesty during several calls, I mean Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska, can lead to a logical conclusion. Therefore, I support the proposal made by Deputy Kiselov, and I ask that she be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u121	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u122	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, I think that everyone in Ukraine, from the baby to the sedated old man, knows that it is for these gas crimes that began in the Kuchma-Lazarenko-Timoshenko triangle that the most humane court in the world, the American, has marked Mr. Lazarenko for nine years. It's the crimes he's behind because it's because it's the gas business that got billions of dollars out of it, washed away in an off-shore zone, hidden away. For this, the American court condemned the Ukrainian citizen Lazarenko. As to how the most humane court of independent Ukraine works, we know with you very well, including the price it determines for its humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u123	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u124	Thank you. We were thinking about it, so I have a replica, but I'm going to use it as a procedural question, because the replica is personal, it's small. The point is, Adam Ivanovich, that if the draft decree is taken as a basis, then only technological adjustments can be made in order of repairs that do not change the concept of the project. So we can't, for example, add a new paragraph, we can't even put it to a vote and we can't exactly change the second item about headship, because it's not just a last name, although it's also a single name. It doesn't have to be corrected. Is it a concept, or is it led by a representative of the opposition or a representative of the authority? It's conceptually understandable here, so my request and my proposal is to vote on only those amendments that are technically relevant and not to vote on changes in substance. Vote in general with the two amendments that acid and I made about terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please let go of your hands, they called many. They call for logic, not the Rules. Regrettably, there is no article in the Rules that says that logic is to be guided. The Rules express clearly and unequivocally how any proposals for any bill are voted on. Taken as a basis, each proposal is then put to the vote. If it gets the required number of votes, it's counted. If she didn't pick it up, she didn't count. If, as a result of the vote, we vote again in general and not in general, it will not be counted again. This isn't the first time. Why, as it were, beat up on a scoundrel? Therefore, in order for the ruling to be made, I would like to refer to Mikli Ivanovich only on the basis of article 82 of the Rules, which refers to the limitations that the national MP Bronnikov pointed to. Do those words that the deputy spoke of really have a bearing that you had a direct relation to gas, distribution and so forth, and so forth, because 82 articles really require a ban on being part of a temporary commission of inquiry in such a case. Please, the Sivule microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u127	I don't need a Sasu word, I need an answer from you. Sass can't answer for you. I see. On what basis? In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, be sure to make a comment. Turn on the sasa microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u128	Thank you. Deputy Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, in line with article 28 of Part 1 of the Rules. I'm making you aware of the violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The point is that the drafts, which are the only draft laws in accordance with article 84 of the Rules, are the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that contain a normative position. And draft acts, draft regulations, resolutions, declarations, references, statements arising from the establishment, organizational, supervisory functions of the Supreme Council are not bills. That's why they're not being considered by procedure, these decisions that are currently being considered under the bill procedure, and in accordance with 89 articles of the Constitution, they're being voted on, and the Supreme Council, according to 89 articles of the Constitution, has the right to create one third of the constitutional composition of the commission of inquiry that it did. And there's no need to take any basis. So please read the Rules. I made a note to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u129	Thank you for your observation. But please show me an article in the Rules that says that the decree is what you understand, not what it says. I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy, Kiselov. We'll be fine. Who in order to be the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission to elect the national deputy of Alexandrovsk, please vote. [[12:16:33]] For 228 Correction accepted. Next amendment. Then there'll be suggestions. Next amendment. We've already discussed them. There'll be more repairs, there'll be more. Next amendment. The next amendment was to entrust the Interim Investigative Commission with a study on the objectivity of debt write-offs from the “One Energy Systems of Ukraine”. Please vote. [[12:17:23]] For 227 Copy that. There was an offer that the author accepted. I repeat, I will not accept the suggestions verbally. The proposal, the proposal in the Kiselov bill, is about changing the terms of the commission from six to three months. Please vote. [[12:18:08]] For 234 Yes, 234. I'm voting on the whole draft decision, as a whole. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:18:32]] For – 230 It's been decided. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-13-m0.u130	Honorable National MPs. The morning session is closed. Tomorrow's the 010th hour. Today is work on committees and factions.
