ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:52]] The 403 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome the people's deputies of Baburin Alexi Vasilovich, Bilvola Alexander Mikolaiovich, Gunnery Eugene Alexiyovich and Larina Sergey Mikolaiovich, who are on their birthday today. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on January 10, 2006. Nine issues of the agenda were considered. Two laws and four decrees were adopted, four bills and three draft decrees were adopted on a basis, one draft decree was rejected, and the Government of Ukraine was held. Yes, announcing: In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the exit of the parliamentary faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko of the National Deputies of Ukraine by Sergio Kiroyans and Nasalika. Honorable National Deputies, corresponding to 2.5. 2 The Rules are given 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. The factions and groups will be asked to submit their statements. And let me also announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Ms. CHICHANOVA to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the Head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Ivanov, to whom the City Council expressed distrust. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:15.]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:36]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Leonida KRAVČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the renewal of the conditions of pay for employees of national cultural institutions and creative groups. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:06]] For-163 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:26]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Vassili SALIGINA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Prosecutor General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Health, Head of the Board on the Legality of the Management of the Kharkiv Observatories and District Council and the decision taken to apply the provisions of the Law on the Recovery of Payments of the Debtor or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy to the Municipal Enterprise “Harkovska Pharmaceuticals Factory” and to prevent “shadow” privatization of the enterprise. Alexander STATE to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purposeless use by National Deputy Wolin of a one - time assistance of 277,300 bracelets to create adequate housing conditions in Kiev. Ms. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ and Mr. Mikirka to the Head of the Supreme Council on the systematic violation by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Martinyuk of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the improper conduct of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. The branch of ŽIZKA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the publication of ratified agreements on cooperation with the European Union. Vassili SALIGINA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Prosecutor General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Health, Head of the Board on the legality of the management of the Kharkiv Authority and District Council and the decision taken to privatise the assets of the state-owned enterprise “Regional Pharmacy” and to prevent the destruction of the drug system of the medical and preventive institutions and the population of the area. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kyiv District Government Administration for Water Supply and Gasification of the Borovska House of Culture. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problem of employment of the Ukrainian rural population. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the illegal alienation of state property in favour of the closed-circuit airline Airworld in the Borispol Airport. CATHERINA SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the restoration of services in the Kirilian Church of Kiev. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Grand Chernitin in the district of Vinnitsk. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister in connection with the emergency situation of the National Museum of Medicine. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the provision of financial assistance to the inhabitants of Svetłovodsk and Novogorodkovy region of Kirovogradska in the gasification of the population. Anatolya HIRSCHFELDA to the Prime Minister on the situation of the arrival of subsidies for the gasification of Kharkiv district population according to the 2005 State Budget. Ms. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the basis of a inadequately tested parliamentary request for the appointment of state social assistance to many children and low-income families. Georgia KRUCHKOVA and Gennadia DEVENCY to the Prime Minister regarding reports in foreign and national media about “publicity in Ukraine of the CIA’s secret prisons”. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for drawing on the responsibility of the minister of agrarian politics for corruption related to the construction of a garage in Kiev. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister on the provision of official information on the founders and statutory activities of Rosukrenerego as the main mediator between Ukraine, Turkmenistan and Russia on natural gas supplies to Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Prime Minister on the non-admission of agrarian colleges and the Equinox technology into the structure of university centres by scenario and plans of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the rightfulness of the termination of the Open Shareholder Association “Smilamolconserve” and the release of employees of the company. Mr. Oleg TGAGNIBOK is acting as Prime Minister, head of the State Border Service Administration for the implementation of a single system of biometric control (scanning fingerprints, retinas, etc.) for foreigners entering Ukraine. Tamara, Prime Minister for failure to implement the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, in the Plains region. Anatolia HIRSCHFELDA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the head of the holding fund on the situation around the open stock company “Buying Foundry” and the closed stock company “Buying Foundry Mechanics” of the Kharkiv Region. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the purpose of deliberately leading to bankruptcy and the complete liquidation of the Dormash enterprise in Mikolayev. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the responsibility of officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics for failing to comply with the government's decision of 3 August 2005 to grant subsidies to local budgets for the construction of water pipelines to rural residents of the Herson region. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the theft of the funds of the Central Historical Archive of Ukraine in the city of Lviv. Vassil NADRAVIA to the prime minister’s responsibility to rebuild the Luhansk District Philharmonic. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister again asked for an increase in the amount of fees for primary schools in rural areas. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the prime minister's duty to prevent the conversion of the Chernobyl zone into a European nuclear waste dump. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister, Head of the Holding Fund, on ensuring the constitutional rights of employees of the Open Shareholder Society, the “Scoll Building Plant” for timely remuneration for work. Petra TLOČKA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, Kiev City Head, on the occasion of the accident of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical Cultural Reserve. Igor ŠURMI to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the reasons for closing Children's Garden No. 9 in Poltava. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Exceedment of the Social Insurance Fund for the Temporary Loss of Operating Costs for the Implementation of Healing Routes. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General on the illegal acquisition of state-owned funds from the Reserve Science and Technology Centre and the intensification of criminal investigation according to the fact. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of legislation on the protection of work by officials of the “Swietnak” branch of the state-owned company “Shakhtar” the name of the Assembly in the Donetsk region. Anatholic of Korczynski to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of shareholders of the closed stockholders association “Mikolaiowska Mover mechanized column No.3” by unlawful actions of the head of the company’s management. Mr. Mikhail POLANČIČICH to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of the Gagarin Prosecutor’s Office of Sevastopol regarding the Sevastopol Fish Conservation Plant. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Department of State for the Execution of Punishment, the Human Rights Supreme Council Commissioner for the abuse of the administration of the IC-52 prison in Jenakiyeva of Romanov’s political prisoner in the case of the Odessa Komsomol. Boris BESPALO to the Attorney General, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Council of Judges on the threat to the rights of the owners of the open shareholders association KyivMiyvMiskNaftoProduct and on the legal assessment of the facts of corruption by the judges of the Dniprovsky District Court and the Master Court of Kiev. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board, the Head of the State Tax Administration on the illegal activity of the owners and the management of the DPA in the Chernigiv region, aimed at the illegal compensation of the value added tax. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General on the decline of the social infrastructure of the village of Nova and Kirovograd. ZIŽKA's branch to the Attorney-General on illegal actions by law enforcement officials in the city of Kerch concerning the citizen of the Republic of Moldova and the limited liability society “MiV”, which have signs of corruption. Anatolia KLIMENKA to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of property of the collective enterprise “Ukrego Chormet” of the city of Kharkiv. Larissa UZACZENKO to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the legality of the activities of the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region during the search of the boarding house and the establishment of grounds for its closure. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the answer to the request regarding the violation of the rights of VAT shareholders of the “Mikolayev clay plant”. Group of Deputies to the Attorney General on the enforcement of the rights of the labour force during the sale of the utility “Hotel Farm “Zitomir”. [[MAKEENKO, DRY, SAMOFALOV AND OTHERS]] Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Attorney General’s Office for the illegal release from the work of the Director of the Vladimiretski Children’s School of Music in the Plain region. Vladimir ZAJIJA to the Attorney General, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration, on the legality of the distribution of land between the rations of the former Niwa College in the Plain region. Ms. Vladimir JENKA to the Attorney General on the falsification of the results of the vote in the session of the City Council of Cherka. VADIM MISURA to the Attorney General for the violation of legislation by the local authorities of the city of Dnipropetrovska in granting permits for the reconstruction of immovable property. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General, the Minister of Transport, and the liaison with regard to the baseless refusal of the Lviv Railway’s leadership to issue an accident report that resulted in the death of a person. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, regarding the failure to execute the court’s decision by officials and officials of the Vilnius District Department of the State Executive Service of the Zaporozhye Region. JOURNEY CARMAZIN to the Attorney General, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, the Head of the Herson District Administration for Infringements to the Life, Health, and Property of the Valery SAMOPLAVSKI AND MICHALI SHERSHOON to the Attorney General on the issue of corruption and abuse of the service position of the Radomisl city head of the Gitomir region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the hearing of the Interministerial Commission on the return to Ukraine of hundreds of millions of United States dollars stolen by ex-Prime Minister Paul Lazarenko with the help of his associate Julia Timoshenko as a shareholder of an offshore company for which dirty funds have been washed, as stated in American justice documents. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Health concerning the inclusion of Hospital No. 1 in the 2006 Public Water of Ukraine programme. Mr. Mikoli Katherinczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the purpose of preserving the inter-regional registration and examination department of the State Automobile Inspection in the city of Hmilnik of Vinicki district. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs, prosecutor of the city of Kiev, concerning the violation of legislation by the Waldi-KO security company. Vladimir LECHENKA and Mikaly NOSENKA to the Minister of Education and Science for the purpose of conducting an experiment in the Chernigiv region with regard to the determination of the knowledge of 11th grade graduates by testing. Larissa VACHANKO to the Ministry of Health for the improper registration of diagnostics necessary for the diagnosis of infectious diseases, hormonal disorders. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Economics for the Construction of the Training Corps of the Lower School of Culture and the Art of Zankovetski. Jury DIDENKA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the abuse of office, ignoring the legislation of the Director of the State Enterprise Guardia Ilić of the Yellow Area of the Mikolai Region. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the creation of a landscaper of local importance in the village of Kolomak, Kharkiv district. THE Minister of Fuel and Energy has been given the title of the House No. 59 on the street of Dumin, in the city of Berdjansk, a transformer substation. Eugene HYRNIKA to the Minister of Justice for non-recognition by the creditor of the Icarus Valley Enterprise, Ivano-Frankiv Region. MICHELLE TO THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL POLICIES, which deals with an unsatisfactory material and technical base for the preparation of plant and animal specialists at the Suma National Agrarian University. Mr. Nestor Šufrič to the Minister of Justice for failure to implement the decision of the Babushkin District Court of Dnipropetrovska on the collection of funds from the “Premierbank” equity commercial bank. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Education and Science on the Inadmissibility of Removal from the List of Specialists, for which experts are trained in higher technical schools, the specialty “Chemical Technology of Fuel and Carbon Materials”. JANUARY to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding violations of the rights of a military veteran to receive a residence first. Vadim GOUROV to the Head of the State Geological Service, Head of the Department of State Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining Supervisory for the provision of the Krivoridz mining and enrichment combination with oxidized ores. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKH to the Head of the Dejmajne Foundation, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for the preservation as the cultural centre of the White Church of the Palace of Culture of the Open Shareholder Society “Rosava”. Oleg BILORUS to the DPA Head for information on the abuse of tax return on added value. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the DPA on the provision of information on the investigation or verification by the State Tax Administration of the offshore Cypriot firm and its shareholders Timoshenko in the anti-dirty schemes in the case of ex-Prime Minister Paul Larazenko. Mikhayla STEPANOVA to the Kiev City Head for his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary address regarding the construction of a residential building on the street of Breznakov. Olga KOBECZ to the city’s Kiev head for the funeral of the heroes Krut Vladimir Naumovitch and Vladimir Schulgin. VADIM MISSURA to the city’s Kiev head for the removal from the apartment line and for the illegal refusal to improve the living conditions of a military veteran. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Lviv District Administration, prosecutor of the Lviv region, for the rightfulness of the decision by the Strysk City Council regarding the construction of the coastal territory of the Stry River. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Volin Regional Administration, Minister of Education and Science for the Failure to Implement the Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, as provided for in article 57 of the Education Act, to the educational, scientific and educational and other categories of teaching staff. OBJECT YOURY to the SBU, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the facts of consulting the Russian side by a number of Ukrainian national deputies during the negotiations on gas issues. John HERASIMOV to the Head of the Kyiv State Administration, the Kiev State Administration, on the trial of a search and publishing agency called the “Book of Memory of Ukraine” and the arrangement with the agency of the long-term lease of non-residential accommodation. A PANASOVSKO LEG to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial situation of the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. TO THE Secretary of the RNB, Oleg PANASOVA, regarding the situation around the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. Thus, honourable colleagues, 83 parliamentary inquiries have been made. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 8, Communist factions - 17, People's Party - 9, "Our Ukraine" - 13, BUT - 4, SPI - 6, National Block - 1, SDPU (o) - 16, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 2, "Rebirth" - no, "Reforms and Orders" - 2, non-fractional - 2. Let's move on to the statements made by members of the MPs and factions with requests, statements, messages. Mikola Noshchenko is invited to the presentation. Is there a Mikola Nightshenko? Please prepare Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u2	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Deputate Group of the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters! Once again, I would like to address the policy of the State on the use of ore-based low-productive land and on the development of appropriate rural areas. This is primarily true of a number of northern areas of the Sumsity. Although the problem has a broad geography and is a national one. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics agrees, which confirms that today we have as many as 10 million acres [10 million ha] of land. But unfortunately, in response, in addition to this big information, there are some notes and general phrases. Not a word, but what should we do in the countryside today, where the land is three or more years away? Where virtually every other village has no legal personality. The social sphere is collapsing, and the village is depopulated. Many buildings were decomposed and weeded. Part of the land is really covered in forests. There are many cases where peasants refuse to give up their right to social protection. Today, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics has no politics, no whole state programme for the use of these lands. In any case, at the regional level, in the area, no one has heard of it. Agrarian science is also silent. The impression is that high - ranking government men are working only for today. All previous governments leading China, Yanukovic, Timoshenko, Yehanurov, have failed to give due attention to the development of the North Poles in recent years. By the way, all of these policies are leaders of blocks and parties. And their empty promises, and more rightly, the failure to resolve the problems of peasants will no doubt be taken into account by the voters when they vote in Parliament. The flowering, rich Ukraine should be not only in Kiev but also in the district center, but also in the remotest village or hamlet. The Lithuanian National Block MP is concerned about the situation surrounding villages with low-productive ore lands and demands that the government, local administrations, speed up the development of support and development programmes in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u3	Vassil Kalinchuk is invited to attend. Prepare Yuri the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u4	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. A statement. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. A cold soul for executive power was yesterday’s decision by the Supreme Council to resign the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Such a rigid but completely objective assessment was given to the government by the outcome of negotiations with the Russian side on the solution to the gas problem. The agreement signed by Naftogaz of Ukraine with the “Gazprom” of the Russian Federation is a questionable document in terms of national interests. We had the opportunity to see from the information presented by the government. In fact, the Supreme Council did not receive an exhaustive answer from Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine on the main issues. Why does the agreement fix the price of gas transit by a five-year deadline in Ukraine, while the commitment to gas price that we are promised to supply by $95 per thousand cubes ends in six months? How much will the gas cost Ukraine on July 1st? And what will Gazprom sing after the end of this term? There was no answer to the question of the fate of the covenant concluded with Turkmenistan. More recently, government officials have certified a society that bought 40 dollars a cubic meter [40 dollars a cubic meter] of Turkmen gas. One word: The January 4 agreement was a eloquent testimony to the opaque actions of the Ukrainian authorities. This document will have disastrous consequences for the economy of the State. He's actually putting Ukraine on its knees. The President's assurance that the Cabinet of Ministers would be technical and would essentially be in management functions remained promises. The Head of Government, who declares himself out of politics, then heads the electoral list of the “Our Ukraine” People's Union. According to his example, most ministers also followed the MP’s mandate. The administration works at full capacity. That's why it doesn't have to surprise the ex-premier's statement that the resignation will raise the rating of the bloc's leadership, because in Ukraine, you see, they love the offended. The faction of the People’s Party of the People’s bloc of Lithuania has repeatedly publicly addressed the head of state with a firm demand to put an end to camaraderie and faithful submission in human resources politics, persecution of people for political beliefs. Sadly, there was no appropriate response. Today, some political forces are trying to accuse parliament of unconstitutional actions, rematching and destabilizing the political situation in Ukraine before the parliamentary elections. There are also requirements for the introduction of direct presidential rule and threats to the dissolution of parliament. This hysteria is only evidence of legal nihilism. At the same time, we would like to remind some of the hotheads that on the 2006 calendar, constitutional reform took effect, the centre of political activity moved to Parliament and should be counted. The resignation of the government of Yehanuroff should be a lesson for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u5	Yuri Orobec is invited to speak from “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u6	Deputies! Dear voters! Statement by Block “Our Ukraine”. Yesterday in Parliament, political masks were removed from those politicians who, in pursuit of voter votes, went on to betray Ukraine’s national interests. They tried to trade stability, economic development of the country, and the well - being of its citizens for their own political dividends. The Communist-Oligarchic majority of parliament has shown that unlike the Ukrainian people, it has never learned the lessons of democracy from the orange revolution. The Communist oligarchs continue to compete solely for power, not for the interests of the Ukrainians. The gas supply and transit agreement between Russia and Ukraine on 4 January this year is strategically in line with the economic interests of the State and market relations. We state that the main reason for the resignation of the Yehanrurov government is the vengeance of the Kremlin for the principle of defending Ukrainian interests in the gas issue. The will of the northeastern patrons was done by political puppets. The government of Yurya Yehanurova has resigned the Party of Regions, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, the SDPU(o), the KPU and the people of Lithuania. This vote was the day of the birth of the new political union of those who supported the anti-national regime of Kuchmi-Janukovich and those who declared their membership in the orange camp. Today, the goal of all political forces — Viktor Yanukovič, Yulia Timoshenko, and Vladimir Litvina — was clear on the goal of the Bilochemical leaders — their manipulative and anti - Ukrainian performances on Moscow television, a well - known position of Russian negotiators during the gas crisis. A bitter moral lesson for us in this situation is that yesterday's allies betrayed the ideals of the orange revolution and openly stood on the side of the rematchers and the way of the restoration of the bushmism. In the absence of the Constitutional Court, the destructive part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before the parliamentary elections, is trying to create a state crisis and turmoil. We are convinced that the Ukrainian people will make their conscious choice with Maidan in their hearts. On another occasion, our political power claims that we have a single ally, the Ukrainian people. Ukraine is our only country!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u7	Yes, Viacheslav Koval, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. The events that took place on January 10, 2006, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the so - called resignation of the government demonstrated to all the Ukrainian people the real face of those who so persistently appeal to its support. In this situation, the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine considers it necessary to make the following statement. First, in Ukraine, there was actually an attempt at political rematch by the anti-State coalition, servants of the previous Qutmian-Janukow regime, Communists and, unfortunately, former partners in the orange team -- the Yulia Timoshenko Block, whose representatives so sincerely swore allegiance and ideals to Midan. Until recently, it has been hard to imagine that petty political ambitions and the desire to win cheap dividends can be united in one team of Yanukivists, Esdeks, Communists, Lithuanians, and Beaters. These political powers have actually taken responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. Secondly, there has been a brutal violation in Parliament of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The head of the Supreme Council, the authors of the draft decree and the deputies who supported it, have demonstrated full legal nihilism in basic procedural matters. The draft decree is submitted with gross violations of part one of article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council’s Rules, article 5.3.1 which requires its inclusion in the agenda and consideration not earlier than five days after inclusion. Regrettably, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in four years has not learned to read the basic normative documents of the governing body. Thirdly, there is doubt as to whether the people's constituents really defend the interests of their people. Parliamentarians, instead of uniting themselves around President Yushchenk’s platform and the government, which advocated Ukraine’s national interests and for the first time did not bend their backs to the eastern neighbour, take absurd decisions. 250 so - called nationalists at a time when it is necessary to unite the nation, together to find ways to ensure Ukraine’s energy and economic security, are artificially provoking the political crisis in our country. In connection with the foregoing, the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine considers the vote for the draft Decree 8686-2 to be such that it has not occurred in connection with a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement calls on the Ukrainian people to unite around the platform of the first Ukrainian President of the independent Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, and to evaluate the actions of politicians who attempt to destroy the work of the new Ukrainian authorities. We can't allow a rematch of the former red and blue. We will unite for Ukraine because we have it alone! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u9	Oleg Belarus is invited to speak from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Alexander the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u10	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the "One Ukraine" faction, I would like to state once again that, from January 1st according to the changes to the Ukrainian Constitution, there is a parliamentary and presidential system of government in Ukraine. And the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council, has the right and the duty to protect the interests of the people, not individual political groups. Today, we are proud to state that the Ukrainian Parliament yesterday, January 10th, was at the level of the demands of the people of Ukraine and has dignifiedly defended the interests of Ukrainian citizens by sending the Yehanurov government to resign for betraying national interests for undermining Ukraine's national security. And no matter how many people read paper around here, it won't change, because that reflects the will of every Ukrainian citizen. Go to the villages, to the area, and you will be told how Ukrainian citizens appreciated this activity to the government of Yehanurov. Dear National Deputies, confirming the hysteria that has taken place around this decision today, the constitutional decision of the Supreme Council is a fact. The circulation of 2 million copies throughout Ukraine is distributed that Julia Timoshenko will give every citizen 25% of the ecological supplement to the salary. This is a political provocation organized by those who are not defending the interests of every citizen, but stand in the way of international, inter-State corruption, raising the price of gas for citizens to electricity from January 1st to 25%. Here's the real price for these people's defenders. We urge all citizens to study the new Constitution and to understand East and West that protecting the interests of the people is a matter for each of us. Governments come and go. They hire people to work, not to betray them. If they betray the people, they must be chased with broom! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u11	Yes, the word is Alexander Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u12	The faction has asked me to read out a statement about the resignation of the government, which is not news today, because everyone is commenting on the subject. Today, society expects us to explain what the next crisis of Ukrainian power might mean, and how the government’s suspension of the gas issue will affect us. With freedom of speech in the Ukrainians, it is now possible to adopt the arguments of the parties in open debates. First of all, the problem of transparency and inconsistencies in the work of the executive branch and the direction of the energy sector still exists. Clearly, it was necessary to determine how much Ukraine’s gas supply agreement was in line with how optimal the work of the entire NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” was. The Socialists have proposed a simple and clear path – to draw human resources conclusions, to carry out audits of the activities of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and to create observation boards with the participation of Parliament in all state monopolies. This would allow you to ask questions about the responsibility and qualifications of monopolies, allowing you to get tools for a real solution to the gas problem, to assess the activities of the authorities in general. Instead of taking concrete steps, a number of factions of the Supreme Council have followed the path of creating an artificial political crisis that is detrimental to the national interests of Ukraine, including the gas crisis. The resignation of the government is an exclusively political gesture that, apart from advertising and pyar, gives the authors nothing to take such a step. Government resignors have reportedly tried to punish the Cabinet for failing to negotiate. But in fact, along with the water, they also molded the baby. First, no assessment of energy in general and gas in particular and no solutions to it. And now the chaos in this area will only intensify. Secondly, the stability and trust of the Ukrainian authorities is being undermined for a long time, an attempt has been made to free all ministers, although it is clear that the Supreme Council has no authority to form a new government today, and the resignation is actually formal. The result of the government's resignation will be just another outturn of pre-election propaganda, the arming of anti-polytreform opponents with extra, though empty, arguments will become pyar-war. How convenient is it especially for our colleagues in the faction of the Tymoshenko bloc? The state-of-the-art BUT coalition with the Regional Party and the Vladimir Lithuania bloc and others is re-explaining the position of BUT. The war in the middle of the field team won't leave anyone white and puffy, and it's strange that Julia Volodymyrna doesn't understand that. We are convinced that Ukrainians are waiting for unification, joint action, and not a political show at a difficult time of gas crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u13	Alexander Kuzmuk of the Rebirth faction. Prepare Igor Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies, the Rebirth faction considers it necessary to express its position on the social protection of military personnel who have acquired special focus with the first steps of the new year and the introduction of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006. The first relates to the content of article 38.1, which changed the order of calculation of pensions for military personnel. It should be noted that this order has already been in effect for 2000-2004 and has resulted in imbalances in the size of the pensions of military personnel released at different times, as well as in their numerous appeals to courts and as a result of additional spending by the state. In 2005 alone, some 600 million dollars were spent on court decisions. This article also contradicts the Constitution and the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, and their implementation leads to a reduction in the pension of military personnel who were released in 2006 compared to their early release. The amount of the pension of the commander of the regiment, the colonel and his equal categories will be reduced by 400 dollars in 2006, which is a significant loss for military pensioners, who in most cases have no apartments but have employment problems. Moreover, the implementation of this article has led to the blocking of the mechanism of recalculation of pensions and another, yet another, imbalance in their size. By the way, the above factors in 2005 were catalysts for mass liberation from the ranks of the Armed Forces of highly educated officers with extensive service experience. The other one. We find article 55 of the active State Budget to be shameful and discriminating, according to which in the event of the death of a military official, his family will receive only 17,000 dollars in insurance. This is ten times less than in other power structures of the state. The MP of the Rebirth Party declares its position in the terms of a turbulent socio-economic and political day to be a consistent and firm advocate of the interests of the people in the heathens, to seek social protection of the military and to promote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u15	Igor Ostasz from the Reform and Order Party is invited to the presentation. Prepare Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u16	Igor Ostrash, “Reforms and Orders” faction. I want to publish the factions of the Reform and Order Party. The “Reforms and Orders” faction and the Citizens’ Block, the PRP sees the resignation of the government as a grave political mistake that threatens democracy in Ukraine. We urge all the healthy forces of the Ukrainian society to immediately create a political coalition that would prevent further restoration of the criminal anti-Ukrainian regime overthrown by the People's Orange Revolution. Yesterday’s parliamentary vote was a vivid manifestation of the petty political selfishness of an old generation of politicians or rather politicians who put their narrow party interests and personal insults and ambitions ahead of the will of the Ukrainian people and the interests of the state. The resignation of the government, voted together by the communists, the “Regions”, the SDPU(o) and yesterday’s revolutionaries from BUT, is another dangerous step on the wrong path to which Ukraine was sent a notorious memorandum. U and Yanukovich. Sadly, the Supreme Council has not for the first time demonstrated political inadequacy and unscrupulousness. On the conscience of today’s MPs, the failure of laws upon entry into the World Trade Organization, the adoption of a shameful law on the integrity of members of local councils, the blocking of the activities of the Constitutional Court, and other illegal irresponsible decisions. By the time the old order is restored, there is only one step left, and the Citizens’ Block “The Season” calls for all the healthy political forces, all the honest people of Ukraine to unite their efforts and not allow politicians to reverse the achievements of the Orange Revolution. Regrettably, the prospect of a return to corrupt criminal power in the form of a coalition of yesterday’s orange powers, regardless of whether it will be BUT or NOT. and the block “We are the children of Kuchma”, the communists, the esdeks, the regions are very real. The only opposition to such a counter-natural alliance is to invest now on the eve of the coalition agreement of the democratic forces of Ukraine. We must be above party interests, and the leaders must sacrifice their own ambitions and guarantee to our voters that no matter how many percent each of the orange parties has won, it will remain within the coalition of democratic forces and will not go into treacherous agreements with criminal criminals and enemies of the Ukrainian state. It is our responsibility to a people whose interests are higher than factions, parties and who, in fact, stood up for our common right to democracy and fair elections. I'd like to conclude by mentioning a folk anecdote. Yesterday’s vote in the Supreme Council reminds me of the history of family life when my wife returns from work and her husband turns to her physionomy with all his strength, she asks him: “Why? ” and he says: “If I knew why, I would kill!” Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u17	Nestor Shufrich is invited to the presentation. To make peace with Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u18	Nestor Sufrich, opposition Block “No!” Dear colleagues, honourable fellow countrymen, since 1 January 2006, according to changes to the Constitution, there is a parliamentary-presidential form of government in Ukraine. This means that a key entity, the center of political power, is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, in accordance with the new Constitution, we resigned the government of Yehanurov. 250 votes more than a convincing argument in favour of bankruptcy of the policy of a free government and its actual leader, Victor Yushchenk. According to the existing Constitution, a new government can be formed by a parliamentary majority only after the March elections. To these elections, the government will carry out its responsibilities for the economic and budgetary management of the economy and for the implementation of the budget, and both we and the Court of Auditors have to scrupulously monitor the strict observance of Ukraine’s laws so that God’s laws will not be penalized by political responsibility. I would like to stress that the National Bank, the Tax Administration, the Pension Fund, local administrations and other government executive authorities are still working and are fully responsible for ensuring the state's viability. I hope that it is clear to all that a government in the status of performers is deprived of the right to make strategic decisions. We already have too many serious consequences for this type of decision. Let me remind you of just a few of them. Despite the opinion of the majority of the population of involving Ukraine in NATO, even the 2008 term has already been announced. The signing of an agreement with the American Holtecin International on the construction of a nuclear waste dump and, in fact, the establishment of an international nuclear waste dump in Ukraine. And finally, the so-called gas deal. The devastating effects on the Ukrainian economy are even difficult to predict. Constitutional reform allowed responsible political forces in the Supreme Council to stop the excessively dangerous activity of the government in the adoption of strategic decisions. Because at least one such decision can cost our country and every Ukrainian too much. The opposition bloc “Not so!” calls on Parliamentary colleagues and the entire Ukrainian society to give decisive back to any attempts by bankrupt, free orange-bearing authorities in an anti-constitutional way to halt Ukraine's progress towards democracy and to obtain after parliamentary elections accountable to the people of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u19	Yes, Mikola Komar is invited to speak from the “Regions of Ukraine”. Get ready for Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u20	Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The great citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of Regions points out that yesterday's decision by Parliament to resign the Cabinet of Ministers, Yushchenka, Yehanurova became a logical point in the experiment that orange authorities conducted last year over the people of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine witnessed the complete collapse of the prospects of political power, which came under orange symbolism. The nonprofessionalism of orange governments has proved to be impressive, making the situation in the country seriously more difficult. The adjourned government has failed to resolve with respect to the national interests of Ukraine the gas issue on which the welfare of citizens affects the security of our state. At the same time, the resignation of the government of Yehanurov confirmed the effectiveness of the political reform that came into force on January 1. From now on, an unsecured majority of parliament’s governments do not stand a chance of effective work. In large numbers, the profound revolution in society began with the resignation of Kabmin Yehanurov. With the resignation of the government, the possibility of creating a pocket parliamentary majority has disappeared. There will be no more possibility for the Supreme Council to manage the bank phone. The faction of the Party of Regions states that the President of Ukraine, who has clearly rushed to assess the resignation of the government as unconstitutional, must make a very serious and impartial analysis of these events. Today, after the entry into force of the changes to the Constitution, it is no longer easy to treat such principled decisions by Parliament, and they should be drawn from the perspective of those politicians in which this perspective exists. The leader of the Party of Regions, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, urges the convening of a political council with the participation of the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, and the leaders of the country's political forces to address the issue of the formation of a new government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u21	The Ukrainian National Party, John the Rabbit has the floor. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u22	Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka Honorable National MPs and dear compatriots! Yesterday, the Supreme Council resigned the government in violation of the law. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is convinced that such acts of Parliament are part of the puzzling coup d’état by the anti - Ukrainian political forces, the so - called fifth column of Moscow. Those who resigned the government, and these are the factions of the oligarchy-communist majority, the faction of the former. and the CPI explain their decision by punishing the government for its inability to resist Russia's economic and informational aggression under the terms of the Russian gas conflict, as demonstrated by the signing by the government of Ukraine of an inconvenient new, so-called gas agreement. But the paradox of the government's resignation is that the guilt of the political forces of the Party of Regions, the National Party of Ukraine, the Social Democrats, the KPU, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, the “One Ukraine” and others who have decided to resign the government is no less than the government, if not greater. [[United]] Because it was these political forces under a sign or a label of opposition to the new power that encouraged Russian authority to take extreme action towards Ukraine during the gas conflict. And there's nothing strange about that. Because the parliamentary majority didn't change its oligarchic-communist essence at the fourth year of its existence. It is enough to look at the composition of the Governing Body in order to make sure of that. How this fact has not changed, and since much of the oligarchs and pilgrims have now settled in the faction of Timoshenko. Therefore, the real motives for such a decision on the government's departure are an open-minded approach to stabilizing the political, economic situation in Ukraine, because after the resignation the government cannot be effective. The destabilization of the situation inside Ukraine is a continuation of the blackmail policy initiated by Russia on gas, which was also aimed at destabilizing the situation in Ukraine before the elections. These forces want to weaken power and hold elections from the position of power and the bribery of the electorate. These are real motives. The procedure for considering the resignation of government in the Supreme Council has demonstrated new democratic, in quotes, the possibility of a changed Constitution. Now the laws and regulations will be only for the President and the government, and of course for the people. And the so - called parliamentary opposition majority or coalition becomes a caste of untouchable and out of all law. In conclusion, it is worth noting that the largest faction of Frost, which has many deputies, has paid off. After the government has resigned, all responsibility goes to the Supreme Council. And I want to say, honourable national MPs, that the struggle for Ukrainian independence continues. What Russia will do with the 5th column today to weaken power and destroy. Therefore, our task is to unite the patriotic national democratic forces and to resist this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u23	Yes, Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is invited to speak. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u24	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Yukhnovsky, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, the constituency block “Our Ukraine”. In society, a commotion caused by two major events is the government’s gas problem and resignation. It's about a gas problem. If some believe to take an average arithmetic price of 40 billion cubic feet [40 billion cu m] of Turkmen gas of 50 dollars and 20 billion [20 billion] of Russian gas of 230 dollars, the price of gas for Ukraine would have to be $140 per thousand cubic meters. We got the price of gas at $95 per thousand cubic meters. This was because Russia had made substantial concessions, reducing the cost of transportation of Turkmen gas through Russia. And so we actually both went to certain concessions, both sides kept their faces, Russia theirs, Ukraine theirs. And that's why I think these negotiations were smart and smart. I believe that yesterday's position of prime minister and his speech here on the Supreme Council have shown that a worthy, reasonable and intelligent prime minister. What did we get out of the gas problem anyway? We kept a substantial price for transporting gas across Ukraine at $1.6 per thousand cubic meters per 100 km [100 km]. So Ukraine didn't lose, we didn't get a break for three months, as President Putin suggested, we got a six-month break. Moreover, the pressure exerted by the Supreme Council yesterday obliges the government to be harsh about the next negotiations. Yet the point is that the government must be strong. And we took that power from the government yesterday. We took a completely absurd and unconstitutional step by resigning him. We could have criticized him as much as we could, but we didn’t have to do what we did. What must Ukraine do? Dear friends! We need to focus, concentrate, consolidate around an existing government. We see that he will not resign; we must help him in his work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u25	Catherine Samuelk of the Communist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u26	Yesterday, as is known, the Supreme Council of Ukraine resigned the government by entrusting it with the task of forming a new composition. Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich, voted on this. This would not have happened if the issue of gas prices had been resolved in advance, not in the heat of winter. And the faction of the Ukrainian Compatriot on the Conciliation Council in September stressed the immediate solution. But I've got the site. What am I reading on the side of the Prime Minister of Ukraine? “ The bandits and the scoundrels did the right thing. 250 sons of bitches and villains." And so on. I hear so-called, national MPs. Tell me who's talking about it. Those who, on the call of Kuchma, fled to the Ukrainian House in a coup d’état! Those who tear up their shirts and make them vote for Kuchma in Western Ukraine, those who were prime ministers, vice-premier, are now sitting! The ministers were! Is that what you're talking about?Oh, my God! So-called, it's you, you've been and you'll be the flimsers of our society. You are really his sons and daughters. Last day showed that everyone was tired of lying. They don't believe in reducing well-being. He was painted by Yanukovich, painted by Timoshenko, Yehanurov, and people want him through decent wages and pensions, because of the warmth in the village, because of access to education, to work, to feel that you are really a Ukrainian citizen. What did the first questions show yesterday? We talk about achievements in education, and nearly half a thousand schools are closed. Is that normal or insane? You still have three thousand settlements left to wipe off the face of the earth, and then you will decide on the issue of education. People ask the question: After all, when will the lie end? When are all the TV screens going to stop sounding like what you were talking about yesterday? I'm talking to our voters. What was done yesterday is a step of political will, it is a national step against those who sell and sell Ukraine. You've gone to the "Criminals". Why do you keep silent when the pioneer camps are sold? You don't get involved, you don't want to go there, you just need to go where the money's stuck. We took the step of political courage, we took the step of forming a Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u27	Honorable national MPs, speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. With regard to the questions raised in the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. To sum up, honourable colleagues, let's say that the ritual has been performed by all, that the pre-election positions have been staged, and now let's work and answer the question whether there has been a tragedy in Ukraine. [[One minute!]] No, it's not. This is the fifteenth government. Second, respected colleagues: Who creates crises in Ukraine? Litwin, yes. Next, fellow believers: Who are solving these crises? Litwin. So I would like to say, fellow honourable Members: when Parliament passed the exam and took the lessons, and took the lessons in November and December, and when Parliament asked the question: did the Order to approve the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action and accepted the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers -- there was no shouting that it was a violation, there was no shouting. [[Learn to listen!]] Where was the principle? We got caught up in the revision of the changes to the Constitution, and unfortunately, most of the speakers here, I think, didn't read the Constitution. Some who were so active could not read it last year because they were not in Ukraine in general for two months. And now it's being told that the Supreme Council has not been able to pass the WTO laws. So you raise the results of the vote, including your own, and look who didn't support the SOT Bills and who consistently supported these SOT Bills. Then all questions will be answered. Problem number two, my dear colleagues. Why wasn't there a crisis when the President of Ukraine resigned the government of Timoshenko? Why didn't they scream about the crisis? They screamed, only part of the people. Therefore, respected colleagues, we need to read the documents. Those documents, which are contrary to the Constitution and which are contrary to the Rules, did not apply to voting. And please read carefully. And stop, I beg you, read it, and stop the unnecessary cry of responsibility. Dear colleagues, and Parliament have assumed responsibility and responsibility in Parliament. Remember the budget, the government offered the budget, the parliament offered an option that predicted an increase of 10 billion. And Parliament has adopted a budget, not a government. Most government officials did not see or read the budget, which they personally acknowledged. So, dear colleagues, let's stop all this talk and work on it, nothing tragic happened in Ukraine. Let the government work, and please read the preamble to the draft decision, more specifically, for which the government has resigned. If people support that good life and it is combined with some of the deputies who make this statement, please prove it. If anyone wants to go together, we'll go to a country club with people and you'll convince them. So, dear fellows, let us continue our work in peace. I would like to reiterate that no one has sworn to serve “Our Ukraine”. You swore an oath to serve the people, and let us keep that in mind. You're indignant that it didn't work out that way, and I was able to endure in December months when I was accused of not being the same as now for making decisions about the government at the time. But the Supreme Council made a decision. And accepted it within the Constitution of Ukraine. And calm down, everybody, and let's work. Three minutes. Sign in, please. Three minutes. I'm taking stock of the performances. Read the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u28	But calm down, let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u29	Mosquito, please. I'm in charge. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I would ask everyone to calm down and continue the fruitful work of Parliament. I think that what Vladimir Mikhailovich was saying right now was the sum total of what happened yesterday and what happened today in the speeches from the rostrum. There is an offer to continue the work of Parliament, to work on those bills that are in order today. Well, what I said in the speech, I confirm again, is that we need to gather Vladimir Mikhailovich, the political council, and we need to be advised on how to move on. Life goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u31	George Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u32	Please pass it on to Sergei Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u33	Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u34	Thank you. The Grim Reaper, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, yesterday's channel “1+1” reported that the political leadership of our party, Ukraine, had called on the President to introduce direct presidential rule that was not provided for by the Constitution, i.e. a coup d'état. In this regard, the leadership of the political party, Our Ukraine, must either refute the communication and refer to the court for a channel that includes a person on the first fifth of its list, or unanimously, organized and principally voluntarily to the Lukyanov Detention Facility and bring an action with due regard to the attempted coup d'état. I would like to remind you that a voluntary, purehearted confession relieves guilt. That's why you're free with a good conscience in a few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u35	Mikola Catherinechuk, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u36	Please give the floor to Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u37	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are the speaker of Parliament and you should not use your position as a political actor. You are well aware that you had a rudely disrupted procedure yesterday. Because the issue of the resignation of the government was not included in the agenda at all, even as required by the Rules. The government should be given five minimum days to prepare the matter. The prime minister should make a report. There was nothing like that. You're just asking for gas information and you've retired the government. And what did you do better for Ukraine? Did you make a better government for Ukraine? Did you do a better situation for Ukraine? So this is an open anti-constitutional coup. And if the President takes the right action, he'll be absolutely right. He will do what the guarantor of the Constitution has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u39	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u40	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I appeal to all those present in the Hall, representatives of political parties and movements without exception. Today we are discussing the situation in the country. And the right thing to say is what happened yesterday. I want to go back to the words Vladimir Mikhailovich said. He was absolutely reasonable in saying that, depending on whose decisions had been made, the opponents had traditionally begun to speak of some unconstitutionality of the actions, of a violation of the Rules, of everything else, which, in their view, was a violation of the procedure. However, depending on the situation of the Supreme Council, it also regulates the normative framework, the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of the Supreme Council, the right to take decisions, including those adopted yesterday. And so today, when we talk about yesterday's decision that someone is settling or not settling, we have to evaluate it from any position, but not from the point of view that someone has violated the Rules or some other, I ask forgiveness, procedural questions. That's why I think we should let it down today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the Rules provide, if the issue of government mistrust is being considered, for a third of the national deputies to support, then it will take five days for the government to have the right to speak. In this case, the draft ruling proposed by Oleg Belarus was not put to the vote because it was contrary to the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. With regard to resignation, the article of the famous Constitution contains a direct standard of action, and the Rules do not provide for five days. I'm asking you to just study the Rules, study the Constitution, and everything will be fine. Please. And, dear colleagues, I'd like to hear your advice in December when it comes to the Janukovich government. Where were you then? Yeah. A draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Licensing is being announced for consideration. Please, from the Cabinet of Ministers, Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Get ready for Oleg Grachev's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the draft Ukrainian law is to join Ukraine in the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Lease, which will help create the necessary legal and economic preconditions for the further development of international financial lysis in Ukraine. In fact, not only are the developed Western countries, such as the United States, France and some others, but Russia, Belarus, Uzbekistan, and other SND countries, as well. The Convention defines the principles of international leasing. Rules for the conclusion of a leasing agreement, the rights and obligations of the members of the lysing process. Guarantees of property integrity and damages, etc. The Convention’s provisions are aimed at expanding the organizational legal capacity of lysing entities and should contribute to increasing investment in core funds. I would like to point out that Ukraine's accession to this Convention will not require changes to the current legislation of Ukraine, including the issue of lysing relations in Ukraine. In particular, the provisions of the Convention are exactly the same as those of existing legislation regarding the terms of the lease agreement and other matters. For what purpose is the adoption of this bill and the distribution of the standards of this convention to our legal relations? When international agreements are concluded on licensing issues, a collegiate norm can refer to the material standards of foreign legislation. And in joining this convention, any Ukrainian operator will be confident that they will act even in the event of any conflict, dispute, appeal to a court of law, which fully conforms to the existing Ukrainian legislation, and this will give further stability to his contract. Please support this bill, and I want to emphasize that in Russia, through lysing tools, up to a third of all investments in basic funds are made. In Ukraine, unfortunately, today this indicator is somewhat lower. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? None. Please sit down. Please take the position of committee head, Oleg Grachev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u44	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Foreign Affairs Committee, reviewed a bill on Ukraine’s accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Lease. By the way, Unidroit is the International Institute for the Standardization of Private Law. The committee approved support for the bill, its adoption by the Supreme Council. The purpose of the law is to join the International Financial Lease Convention in Ottawa on May 28, 1988, which will help create the necessary legal and economic preconditions for the development of the International Financial Lease. The Convention sets out the principles of International Lingering, the rules governing the conclusion of a leasing contract, the rights and obligations of participants in a variety of processes, the guarantees of property integrity, and damages, and so forth. The Convention, if joined, will play a role as a basic international legal instrument in the field of lysing, which will enable the efficiency and accessibility of lysing operations for operators and facilitate the establishment and development of international financial lysing. Creating additional opportunities in the field of investment and establishing new economic connections, increasing the level of high-tech goods and technological rearming of manufacturers. The adoption of the law and the implementation of the Convention do not require additional costs from the State budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that the law can be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council considers that the draft law does not have an impact on the formation of the income and expenditure portions of the budget. No comments or suggestions were received from other committees of the Supreme Council. By the way, it has already been said that most of our neighbouring countries, including the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, have joined the Convention. Please support the committee's decision and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, no warning? Let's see, one minute. He insists on the performance. He signed up for Rodionov, please. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov. Rather, let us make decisions if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u46	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The Communist faction will support draft law No. 0291 on Ukraine's accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Lease. The faction believes that from a civil and legal point of view, accession to the Convention will contribute to the participation of Ukrainian economic operators in international financial lysis. But the faction of Communists cannot point to the inconsistencies of the actions of today’s authorities and of the President of Ukraine. As a result of the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine, it seemed that today's authorities should have contributed in every way to the creation of additional opportunities, particularly in the field of investment, technological and technological resupply of the domestic economy, higher levels of trade in high-tech products with other countries. In fact, the Government is doing everything to ensure that these directions are not supported enough to mention the sad moratorium on the granting of new and extended existing benefits, as provided for in paragraph 1 of paragraph 13 of the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act. The President of Ukraine's numerous vetoes on the laws adopted by the Supreme Council are also relevant to this subject, and I remind you: these are laws on the special regime for the innovation of technology parks, technology transfer, scientific and technological activities, etc. It seems that there are people in the President's environment who are not interested in Ukraine's high-tech development. The Communist faction stands out for a policy that suits the interests of the people of Ukraine. Communists see this interest in the highly technological development of Ukraine’s economy. From a legal point of view, this bill corresponds to these directions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, please, the “Our Ukraine” faction. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that everyone is excited about the situation that happened yesterday and, above all, I would like to address Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are a wise man, and you realize that not everything was done by law yesterday, and when you open 87 articles and 115 articles, you'll see, and 85 too, but you can't separate 85 from 87 and 115. So I would ask you, it's no good to take the commission to give the Legal Committee onopenko, to give the Regulatory Committee a commission, to study the legality and the actions that were taken yesterday, to have them raise the Rules, to have them look again and report to us here, let's say, today, after lunch or tomorrow, to keep the society calm, not every law. And it's about anti-constitutional decisions, it's about anti-constitutional decisions. So, well, there are all the signs, I say, of this. And I'm going to the committees, to the bodies of the Supreme Council and all, and I've asked, "See us today, the Constitutions are new." We haven't seen it. I asked: “See new constitutions”. For you to read that we can no longer send a government for 60 days, we can't entrust it. Now there is no time limit for him to fulfill his duties. It says, before, back to the created government. That means forever. Well, who does that? Do you understand? So if you'll please assign two committees, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I'm addressing you. Now it's about this law. As early as May 28, 1988, this International Financial League Convention was held in Ottawa. But it was also open to joining all the nations that did not sign it. But we're only asking that question today. Ladies and gentlemen, consider eighty - eight and two thousand six years, for almost twenty years, Ukraine is even more serious on such international issues. And we're talking today whether we should take it or not. The Convention sets out the principles of international lysing activity, the rules governing the investment of the lysing contract, the rights and obligations of the members of the lysing process, the guarantees of property integrity, the compensation of damages, the regulation of international financial lysing operations and the rules governing the application of this Convention. There's nothing anti-State in this convention. It opens the way for a wider application, for additional opportunities in the field of investment, for technical and technological restocking of the domestic economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u49	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u50	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, television viewers. The faction has determined that we will support this bill and support the ratification of this agreement. But it's language. I would like to say a few words in person as a national MP about the events that are taking place today. Let's stop, however, the honourable people's deputies, and the parliamentarians, the Parliament all, to frighten our people. So we were afraid that the gas would be expensive, and we were also afraid of something. And what I'm saying is that society, in general, is already so scared that they're probably not afraid of anything anymore. They're ready for anything. And we completely forgot those years when we would say so, we would steal everything that belonged to the people. Now we have no other problem as to how to discuss the problem of just one gas, as any major catastrophe has already occurred from all of this. The government assured us, and we have to believe there was a government, and we believe that they will not raise prices, the more Parliament vetoed to raise prices for the population of Ukraine and for businesses operating in Ukraine. And that's why we didn't have to stir it up, and we don't have to do it today. I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich, and we have some very important bills today that are awaiting our mountain settlements. I'd like us to work this way today so that we can get to the bottom of this important bill on the status of mountain settlements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u51	Yes, let's go to the vote, yes, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal is made for a committee to approve the draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Licensing. Registration number 0291. Please vote. [[11:29:06]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! A draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Factoring, registration number 0292, is being announced for consideration. We've actually had a conversation on this subject, so we could put it to a vote right now, there's all the conclusions and suggestions. No warning? A vote is taken on the proposal by the committee to approve the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Unidroit Convention on International Factoring, registration number 0292. Please vote. [[11:29:54]] For 238. Decision taken. A draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Civil and Legal Aspects of the International Kidnapping of Children is being announced for consideration. Are there any warnings about this document, Your Honor? You don't? I am voting on the proposal of a committee to approve the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Civil and Legal Aspects of the International Kidnapping. Please vote. [[11:30:39]] For 307 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Export and Import of Cultural Values, registration number 0335, is being announced for consideration. The committee considered making a positive decision. Are there any warnings about this draft document? You don't? It is up to the vote to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. Take it off, there's a warning, please. Take it off the vote. Then please, Minister of Culture and Tourism Lichov. Please serve as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Export and Import of Cultural Values, were discussed at the committee meeting and were indeed recommended. The agreement was signed in Moscow on September 28, 2001 by the Prime Minister of Ukraine then by Kinakh. The agreement aims at improving the national and inter-State levels of cultural value protection, creating a mechanism of cooperation covering the rule of law, administrative and financial action of the States participating in the SND. The agreement does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine. Its implementation does not require the adoption of new laws or changes in the current legislation of Ukraine. This is also reflected in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, investment, and European integration. At the same time, I would like to point out that at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, some of the members of the Committee, about 50 percent, expressed their support for repealing the bill of caution on article 4 of the Treaty, since Russian is the language of communication in the Commonwealth of Independent States. And this, I emphasize, is the SND Agreement. So, as it were, I should have brought the opinion of some of the members of the committee to you. In one vote, the decision committee approved, but at the same time it was suggested that the warning regarding article 4 should be withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u53	How can you do the right thing here? We're voting first, no, no, we're voting in general then or with a warning? Well, please have a discussion. Let's talk for 10 minutes. George Carmazin is written down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the question arise? The question arose because the agreement signed in 2001 in Moscow between Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and Ukraine were called: “On exportation and import of cultural values”. In principle, there is nothing illegal there, in principle, that violates the Constitution of Ukraine. But when the treaty was signed, the Republic of Moldova made a warning: “Except for Article 16. ” Article 16 provided for the commitment of countries to adopt national legislation as follows: “The parties shall ensure that the necessary measures are taken to implement this agreement, including the preparation and adoption of relevant legislative and other legal acts”. So customs instructions, their respective ministries: culture, architecture and so on, to whom it belongs. It was no big deal, and there was no warning. Ukraine then signed a single - warning agreement. It reads: “Except for the second paragraph of Article 4.” In that case, if we ratify the treaty, we will ratify it as signed by Ukraine. We have no right to leave, otherwise we must return it to the government in order for it to sign without that warning. So we have two outcomes: either ratify as signed by the government or not ratify. What is better: no treaty, no law, no existence? I think it's better to ratify. But I want to say to our government that I see no harm in this article 4 where you were afraid. Why? Where you were afraid, I quote: “The permits are being filled in by the state language of the State of export and by the Russian language and are being issued by the authorized authorities of the State of the parties. I'm sorry, but if it's written in Kirghiz, it's going to be very difficult for you to find a translator in Ukraine. If it is written in Armenian, it may be difficult for you too. Even to you, my dear, Mr. John the Rabbit. I know that even Armenian, if it's written, it's still going to be hard. That's why, Your Honor, I repeat what our officials have been up against today. Against the fullness of the language of the State of export and of the Russian language. So there was nothing wrong with it, and let's not do anything about it. I propose to ratify the agreement as signed today, because it's not a little worse than the ratification as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u55	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u56	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable deputies, apparently this treaty should be ratified because it expands the legal field in the field of cultural values. Of course, I wanted it to be effective and effective. Unfortunately, the other agreements made in the CIS are not effective. As early as 92, the Agreement on the Return of Cultural and Historical Values to the States of origin was signed. Have many Ukrainian relics and rarityes returned from the museums and reserves of Moscow and Petersburg? In the year 94, an agreement was signed on the cooperation of customs services with regard to the detention and return of cultural values that are illegally exported. And what has been the flow of our values abroad since then stopped? After all, both of these agreements are known, not to mention only the isolated cases of their effective work. In the meantime, hundreds of if not thousands of black archaeologists from Russia and other nations in the direct sense of tons each year carry from Ukraine the precious treasures that then enter the European black market of archaeological and not merely archaeological finds. How do these objects create a green street at the border and border crossings as a minimum of another state? If you can imagine that small ceramic objects can still be translated using a simplified border crossing procedure, how can you explain, for example, the fact that the German tank was exported from Ukraine during World War II? It is clear that large bribes were made to obtain such a trophy under appropriate permits and for excavations and for crossing the border. Black archaeologists are armed with the most advanced search for metal detectors worth up to $5,000, geoscaners who can scan the ground up to 15 feet [15 m] deep and cost up to $15,000. For them, it is not a problem, for example, to hire an excavator to remove the top layer of soil. In the Mogilov-Podil region of the Winnitsk region in the settlement of the Tripoli culture, huge pits were thus dug. However, neither local authorities nor law enforcement officials seem to notice their activities. The conclusion may be that there is a need for serious criminal prosecutions against the work of black archaeologists and attempts to smuggle cultural values outside Ukraine. This is the main precondition for protecting national cultural values from looting. Moreover, it is up to the NAM countries to ask questions about the implementation of their ratified agreements, because there is no point in agreements that do not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u57	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u58	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, dear voters. The questions for us, for Ukraine, are extremely important and relevant. The Agreement on the Importation and Export of Cultural Values was signed by a number of States, including Ukraine in September 2001. Of course, this agreement needs to be ratified. It establishes the single order and rules of import and export, as well as the transit of cultural values, by the territories of the States parties to the agreement. Today, this is an extremely pressing issue. Because in the situation in Ukraine, the export of cultural values has gained disastrous size. Who has had to communicate with customs officials knows that everything is exported — icons, works of art, archival documents. Ukraine has become one of the largest suppliers of art and art in the West. This is evidenced by the conclusions that our tax collectors draw from time to time by the works of art, rarity, archival documents that have been removed from smugglers. We all realize that only a fraction of what is being exported is being removed, and a small part is being removed. And I'm convinced that it's not about customs, it's about the fact that this stream is so large that it's impossible to stop it by the power of one tax collector. Ukraine has become a transit route for cultural values from other countries to the West. We Communists have repeatedly warned and stressed that the cultural values of Ukraine are being looted, with the authorities passively observing it. It was scary that the archives were being stolen. In everyone’s ears, there was a scandal over the theft of archive documents in Lviv, other cities of Ukraine. When they steal, there are those who buy, there is demand. And that's our story. They steal and sell documents. This means stealing and selling Ukraine. This is also evident in the boom of black archaeology in Crimea, as the previous speaker said. We, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, are going to vote in favour of this project, although we are well aware that it is virtually impossible to stop this flow until the state takes on this important issue. And the government, I mean today's power, should put a fence on it, should stop this theft of our history and our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u59	Yes, Basil Nadrag. I'm just looking at the record here. No, Les Stepanovich, we don't have a record.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u60	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania will support this ratification, although there are issues that we have to consider slightly more than just the convention that is under consideration today. Because the bottom line of the problem is this. Undoubtedly, it is normal that with a number of, let us say so, the post-Soviet republics and States we have concluded a convention, and this agreement will work today to import and export and transit cultural property through the territory of the States parties to the agreement. But the question is that, unfortunately, we do not pay much attention and do little about what the previous colleagues have said when we speak of the cultural values of our people, belonging to our country's multi-tousal history, as they are sadly leaving. And here it can be said that today, for example, there is a problem of preserving the same ancient monuments that are so rich in our northern Black Sea territory. Because, unfortunately, the problem of honest archaeologists is much broader than the problem of resolving and banning imports and exports. Because there is a lot of smuggling, sometimes even at the state level, we see some exhibits that are opened by officials that are not made up of legislation, not exhibits that are present in our museums and are, I would say, official cultural values. Therefore, speaking of this, we must understand with you that the problem of the import and export of cultural property is not more of an inter-State relationship than an internal national problem for us as a State. Because we must preserve our cultural values first and foremost not only make our relations with our neighbours more stable, but clearly establish a normative framework that will allow more stringent and explicit punishment for those who are not engaged in legitimate purchases, acquisitions or, I beg forgiveness, acquisition of cultural property. We must ask that historical values such as the Olvia archaeological reserves in the Nikolaev region receive sufficient funding. Here, my colleague in the Lithuanian People's bloc, Toloczko, and I have already discussed and tried to resolve the problem of providing sufficient financial security for the preservation, protection of archaeological reserves, which, in our view, are the most important when we talk about the cultural values of our people. And based on that logic, we believe that both the executive branch and the legislative branch must nevertheless deal more with issues related to the preservation of cultural property in the complex, because it is the only way we can ensure that future generations will also have cultural values that are the acquisition and property of the entire people and not individual owners. It is therefore thought that by supporting this convention, we will meet only part of the problems that we must meet as a State for the preservation of cultural property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u61	Time's up. For reasons, please, Les Tanjuk. For reasons of vote. Dear colleagues, let's write this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u62	I don't want to explain the problem, it's really nice that we're focused on culture, we're just talking about not just exporting cultural values, we're talking about importing them. And we went back to the fact that this system has been running since 2001, we've returned to 300 archives and about 600 paintings, and much more. That's why we've delayed the ratification of this problem since 2001 and to this day. I think we need to accept, ratify this agreement, because the warning that we have today, it's not legal, it's not accepted by your committee, it's not legitimate, so to speak, character. And I don't think he's changing anything in the concept that he is today. So I think we should vote as it is in government, without any warnings, and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u63	Please turn on the microphone. The rest is written down, please take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u64	Dear friends, I would like to return to the question of language. We've really considered this issue on the committee, and we've made a decision on the committee to leave it the way it is. But I'd like to explain to you that the forms were just printed by the government in the state language and that's perfectly natural. And so every time there is an act of transferring such exported cultural values, there is a possibility of making certified notary copies in Russian, Armenian, Polish, and so on. There's no problem. What's more, every year it's about 2-3 acts of transfer of cultural values. I understand that this egg problem is not worth it. That's why we're here. There's another aspect, the whole point is that we can't interfere with the international agreement, because it's signed in this format. Only in this format is it subject to ratification. So there are no contradictions here, and I support the ratification of this treaty with the government's warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u65	Yes, we still have Shevchuk and Melnichuk on record. Chevchuk, please. Melnichuk takes off. Please, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u66	Thank you. The BUT faction will probably support ratification, but I want to give the word of Volodymyr Yavorowski for a bigger, deeper argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u67	Yavorowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is unanimously voting for the ratification of this document. It is very important and necessary in Ukraine today. But I would very much like to do it again, on behalf of our block, to remain in the transcript of what my good colleague here quite rightly said by Igor Ostas, but this also speaks of the level of so-called thinking and patriotism of our government. The forms made in Russian and really, we have to get used to the fact that the language of international communication is English and should be English, but in this situation we have to vote for this document because delaying it is just a huge loss for Ukraine. Thank you and I would like to vote in favour of the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Export and Import of Cultural Values is submitted to the vote. Registration number 0305, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:51:15.]] For 227 Decision taken. The factions! I can hear you. Please, by the factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 39, Communists - 0, National Party - 27, "Our Ukraine" - 30, Block Timoshenko - 14, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, National Block - 17, SDPU (o) - 4, "Rebirth" - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Reforms and Orders" - 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 5, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, two factions call for a recess. Who will speak from two factions? Please, from two factions: “Our Ukraine” and the Ukrainian People's Party. Who will act? Yuri Klukkowski, please. Let's stick to the Rules, shall we? It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, our two factions requested statements regarding the need to clarify the adventurous act that took place yesterday in the walls of the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, I have to remind the organizers of yesterday's adventure of some of the alphabetic truths that apply to the Constitution of Ukraine: According to article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is a legal state. According to part two of the 8th article of the Constitution, the Constitution has the highest legal force and laws and other legal acts are only adopted on the basis and must comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 6 Part 2 states that the legislative and other authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution. Part two of article 19, articles of the Constitution, speaks of authorities and officials acting solely on the basis of powers and in a manner established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Let us now consider how the constitutional limits of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were violated yesterday. The reference to paragraph 12 is not part of the so-called order, but article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers to the Supreme Council's decision on resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, is, in a mild sense, a misunderstanding, perhaps even a deliberate deception of the Ukrainian national deputies. What is the problem? And I ask you to open article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly distinguishes two things: the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is made from the Cabinet of Ministers initiative, not from the Supreme Council initiative, and the resolution of the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution does not give the so - called Cabinet of Ministers the right to resign but only to declare a resolution of mistrust. How does the resolution of mistrust regarding the new edition of article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine express itself? And the point is that it can be initiated either by the President of Ukraine or by the signatures of 150 Ukrainian national deputies. Yesterday, two Communists usurped the law of either the President or a third of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a legally illiterate document from the initiative of those who made changes to the Constitution but contrary to the new constitution. In science, rights for such documents are a very good name, they're worthless, so they never work with.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Damn it, what do you want? Please. Ten seconds, finish the show. Ten seconds. You don't have to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u72	Thank you very much. You see how equal the attitude of the Head of the Supreme Council is. So here, I want to emphasize again. No value means that this decision has never worked and will never work. And that's why we have a prime minister, ministers and no performers. And I'm asking you to consider that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u73	Yes, Your Honor, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u74	Invite the national deputies to the hall so that we can continue our work. The Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.11.2005, has been announced for consideration. Justice Minister Sergey Petrovich Glavatius. None. Who is it from Minyust? Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.11.2005, is being republished. Justice Minister Sergey Petrovich Glavatius. Please. Prepare Philip Philipovich Budzigan from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u75	I'm sorry, I explained to the journalists yesterday's vacchanal that you did. That's why I'm late. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration of the President's proposals for the State Property Fund Act. Perhaps you remember that the President had comments and suggestions to him after his first consideration. As the Supreme Council considered its repetitive third November, it considered only part of the President’s remarks, so he did not sign it, but he made his new comments on the first and seventh articles. The President’s remarks were that the statutory authorization of the State Property Fund as owner of state property and authority over all subjects of state ownership was inconsistent with articles 13, 116 of the Constitution, articles 324 and 326 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, and articles 22, 168 of the Ukrainian Master Code. With regard to article seven, the law under which the State Property Fund was subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers was not in line with the law. Since Article 116 of the Constitution and Article 113 provides that the Cabinet of Ministers is a higher body in the system of executive authorities that directs, coordinates the activities of ministries and other central authorities, including the State Property Fund. After the President of Ukraine made these remarks, according to the information I now own, the Supreme Council's profile committee agreed with the remarks, with the President's comments, and introduced a law to your consideration, taking into account the President's comments regarding the article of the first and the article of the seventh law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u77	Budhagan, a faction of Communists. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment at its meeting on 14 December 2005, reviewed the President of Ukraine's proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund and reported on the following. Ukraine’s Law “On the Fund of State Property of Ukraine ” was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 8, 2005. For the second time, the president of Ukraine has already promised this law, and if you count it as before. I'm not the first to report this bill to the previous presidents, so this is not the first time that I've been behind this rostrum, which is intended to legislatively determine the legal basis of the Fund's activities, its status, its functions, its mandate and order of implementation. And it should be noted that the President's second proposal is not clear, which is also indicated in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority. The President of Ukraine, in his proposals for the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act, proposes to review some of its positions in relation to their compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Civil and Economic Codes. Nor does it express the new wording of the laws to which these observations apply. But despite this, the committee prepared a new draft law that takes into account the President's thinking on these issues. That is, the new edition – firstly – establishes that the Fund's activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers. This standard takes into account the provisions of articles 113 and 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a higher body in the system of executive bodies that directs and coordinates the activities of ministries, other central executive bodies, including the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. And the second. It is also amended by an article of the seventh law, which establishes that, on behalf of the State and in the interests of the State, the law of state ownership is exercised by the relevant authorities in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws. [[I've already spoken to the reporter here.]] In accordance with the law, the administration of public property units is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this way, disagreements with the Civil Code and the Code of Masters are eliminated. In view of the fact that the President's proposals for legislation are taken into account, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council to adopt the Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the report has been completed by the committee. The holding fund, please, do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask you to support a bill that takes into account the observations that were taken into account at the Economic Committee meeting, and I want you to support the State Property Fund by supporting the law, because the work that we are doing today needs to be done with you and me. And believe me, working without the State Property Fund, the State Property Fund Act is very, very difficult. So I ask you to support this document, taking into account the comments that have been made at the committee meeting and the comments that have been made and supported by the Scientific and Expert Department. We agree. To accept the bill in the new edition. And enter it from the appropriate date of vote and signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u80	Honorary colleagues, committee positions and government positions, and the position of the State Property Fund coincide. So we have every reason to vote on the adoption of the Ukrainian National Property Fund Act in the new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 7364. Please vote. [[12:41:13]] For 254 Decision taken. By factions, please “Ukraine” 35, Communist 0, “Ukraine” 39, National Party - 23, Block Timoshenko - 23, SPU - 253, National Block - 15, SDPU (o) - 15, Ukrainian People's Party - 13, Rebirth - 15, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, Reforms and Orders - 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 10, “One Ukraine” - 11, non-fractional - 3. The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized”, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 29.10.2005, is being announced for consideration. Registration number 6310-1. Reporters: Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy of Trelyaków, Deputy Minister of Economy of Ignashenko Philip Philipovich Budzigan will speak from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. On the basis of his constitutional credentials, the President of Ukraine returned the laws to the Supreme Council with his proposals, leaving the following. With regard to Ukraine's Act of 4 October 2005 No 2926-4 concerning the Open Stock Exchange Association Turboat, concerning Ukraine's Act of 4 October 2005 No 2927 on the Open Shareholders Association Odeska Porting Company, on Ukraine's Act of 4 October 2005 No 2929-4 on the State Enterprise Science and Production Complex Zorayashproject and on the Act of 6 October 2005 No 2969-4 on the Open Shareholder Company “Majak Company”. The President's proposals are common to the four bills. The main reasons are two factors. The first is legal, the second is economic. The first legal factor is based on the fact that, in accordance with part five of article five of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, a list of non-privatisation-related public property objects is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In violation of the stated requirement, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was not involved in the resolution of matters governed by the law that came to the signature of the President of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council has decided on the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the sole constitutional body for the administration of public property objects, which corresponds to article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. This also violates articles 6 and 9 of Ukraine’s basic law, which state authorities are determined to act in a manner and within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. The second factor is economic. Aware of the difficult financial and economic situation for the current year, and the adoption of these bills is negatively affected by the implementation of the 2006 State Budget. And also because of the reduction in funding of appropriate budgetary programmes for their implementation in 2006. It is also important to note that the implementation of the laws that have been signed by the President will make it impossible to carry out the tasks of the privatisation plan approved for 2006 and the costs of coming to the State budget in accordance with this plan. And lastly, I would like to point out that according to this plan, the negative factor is a signal that is alarming to foreign investors and it is very important to maintain a consistent position on privatization policy. So the President of Ukraine is asking you to support the proposals for these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u82	Have a seat, please. Ignashenko's Deputy Minister of Economics? None. Please, Philip Philipovich Budzigan. For all the bills, please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u83	I figured out what the reporter reported on all the bills, didn't I? Well, the point is, I'm just going to pay attention to you, I'm thinking to the administration, or whatever, the Secretariat of the President needs to pay attention to the Constitution, because the Constitution provides that the President of Ukraine returns the law, not the laws, that is, the proposals of the President of Ukraine should be formulated separately for each law, not the group of laws, even if they have a common object. In this regard, we feel that the proposals made by the President of Ukraine cannot be regarded as such, as submitted in accordance with article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and this issue has been considered quite meaningfully on the committee. Now it's about the laws. So the law, registration number 6310. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments on 8 November considered the bill and it is envisaged to include in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization but may be corporateized, this is Appendix 2 to the Ukrainian Law on the List of National Property Rights Objects that are not subject to privatization, the Open Shareholder Society “The Factory” Mayak. The president proposes to reject the law. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council does not support the President's proposal. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized” and adopt the prescribed law re-adopted on 6 October 2005 by two thirds of the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. to overcome the veto. Taking into account even the situation in the room, the Committee has made another proposal, it proposes to adopt legislation later, if we do not overcome the veto in a new edition, where to ban the privatisation of the VAT plant "Majak" in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u84	Please, by all laws, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u85	8019-3. On 14 December 2005, the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment considered the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatised. [[referred to the VAT “Turboat”]] Similarly, the president proposes to reject the prescribed law. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the President's proposal. Taking into account the strategic importance for the security economy of the Tuboat State, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council overcome the veto, i.e. reject the President's proposals for this bill and adopt the prescribed law re-adopted on 4 October 2005. Two thirds and the following proposal is the same as the previous law. To Act 8019-4. On November 8, 2005, we discussed the bill on the committee. [[This is about the VAT "Odes import plant"]] The same proposal to reject the president proposes the law. The Chief Research Administration does not support this proposal from the President. And taking into account not only the strategic but in general the importance for the economy and security of the state, the above-mentioned business committee recommends to the Supreme Council to overcome the veto, i.e. to reject the President of Ukraine's proposal for VAT "Odessa Import Plant" and to adopt the prescribed law re-adopted on 4 October 2005. Two thirds of the constitutional composition. And the second sentence is the same as the previous law. And Law 8019-7. This is about “To amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized”, which is intended to include in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, state-owned enterprises, the science-production gas pipeline “Zoramash project”. The president proposes to reject the law. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council was completely in line with the opinion of our committee. Similarly, he suggests rejecting the President’s proposal and adopting the prescribed law redrafted by two thirds of the votes adopted on October 4, 2005. And the next proposal is the same for all of these laws. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you very much, each law individually put to the vote so that we do not repeat the mistakes made by the President's Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we have four laws to which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto. True, he made it a single document. But, at the same time, we will need to vote on the proposals that have just been made, as well as the President's proposal under each law separately. Vitaly Mike, please, for the reasons of the vote, and then Stanislaw Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u87	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the remarks made by the President that have lost power, the main point was that it would not be implemented after the privatisation of the 2005 plan. The plan's done. What the President's remarks are, there were no observations in the sixth year, because why we should vote, the President's doubts all scattered, the plan implemented, there are no observations. Therefore, there is no reason to vote. If that's the reason, I'm asking you to take off 6310-1. I'll prove it by a separate decision of the President's office. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u88	Please, Stanislav Ivanovich. Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u89	Gurenko, Communist faction, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have very important laws today. I don't have enough time for everyone, I want to stop on the last two bills. It's an Odessa parking lot. What people around the Odessa import plant who wrote to the President of the veto today don't know what they're doing. A factory in a warehouse like this is completely impossible to privatize. He needs to be restructured. We need to separate from it today the diversion of ammonia and the important node of joining the main amiac conduit, which cannot be privatized. This poses a terrible environmental threat, and it is simply not possible to do so. Keep going. About “Zoramash project”. It's a super strategic enterprise that's releasing turbines and engines for military technology today. It can't be privatized. Thank you. And please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u90	Sergei Shevchuk. Then Stepan the Cloud, Carmazin, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I will not repeat that the procedure has been violated when it is not possible in one document from the President to talk about three different laws, but I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies present that the President of Ukraine signed similar bills on the first day of 4 October 2005 relating to such enterprises as Deltaltzman, an inter-regional water supply company called Dnipro-West Donbas and others that have been removed from the list of objects subject to privatisation. I mean, on the one hand, he's talking about the Supreme Council and the deputies seem to be exceeding their powers. On the other hand, he agrees with the right suggestions. The position of the BIT faction is that we cannot include so quickly in the list of privatized objects, strategically important, or even environmentally dangerous, objects of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u92	Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u93	Stephen Cloud, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! Of course, the questions that we are considering today relate to objects, strategic objects that are of great importance to Ukraine’s national security. And now, in no way can such objects, such as Turboat, be privatized and there is no need for such objects. But I would like to point out that today we are unlikely to overcome the veto, because there are few people in the hall, I would like to move the vote to tomorrow, because we have a very important result that Ukraine needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u94	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! It was absolutely right today to draw the attention of the committee to the fact that one of the enemies of the state was advising the President. I'd like to ask the Security Service a question to ask those who advise the President, in particular, to privatize the Odessa Portal Plant in the way you suggest it is honorable. You don't have a chat in your head?Oh, my God! Do you understand what amiacoconduct is or not going to the bottom of Tagil? You who don't understand tolyatti are more loyal. You don't understand what you want to cut off? What do you want Odessa, a million Odessa, a hero city, to be in your hostages? And you're suggesting that? This betrayal is called! Therefore, it is necessary to vote in favour of the committee's decision, and to separate it is to put it in danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the polls, to the vote, to be exact. The first is the proposal by the President of Ukraine, no, more specifically, we are now putting to the vote, the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Subject to Privatisation. It's an open stock company called the Mayan Company, about rejection. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[12:58:05]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee to overcome the President's veto is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatised. Registration number 6310-1. It's an open stock company called the Mayan Company. Please vote. [[12:58:47]] For 279 The decision is not taken. That's why you're treating me. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 47, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 2, People's Party – 29, Block Timoshenko – 30, SPI – 26, National Block – 19, SDPU (o) – 11, Ukrainian People's Party – 16, “Rebirth” – 10, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” – Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 9, “One Ukraine” – 13, non-fractional – 11. Now it's the vote, the honourable colleagues, the proposal is the following. To prohibit privatization during 2006 of this object. This is registration number 6310-1. On the adoption of the Act “On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized” in a new edition. Determined to ban privatization during 2006. Please vote. Well, that's a committee proposal. [[13:00:10]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine's proposal for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized”. [[concerning the WAT “Turboat”]] Registration number 8019-3 on the rejection of the law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:00:48]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. The proposal for a committee on the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine is submitted to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatised. [[concerning the WAT “Turboat”]] Registration number 8019-3. Please vote. [[13:01:22]] For 294 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the List of National Property Rights Objects, which are not privatised with respect to the VAT “Turboat” for adoption in a new edition, noting that the prohibition on privatization during 2006. Please vote. [[13:02:04]] For 289 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized”, registration number 8019-4. [[on VAT “Odes port factory”]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:43]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. The decision of the President's Veto Committee is now put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized, registration No. 8019-4. [[on VAT “Odes port factory”]] Please vote. [[13:03:19]] For 293 The decision is not taken. Who's for going back to law school, registration number 8019-4. Please vote. [[13:03:50]] For 282 We're back. May I have your attention, please? The proposal of the President's veto committee for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized” is put to the vote, registration number 8019-4. [[on VAT “Odes port factory”]] Please vote. [[13:04:29]] For 299 The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the issue of overcoming the President's veto to the Ukrainian law, please vote. [[Registration number 8019-4]] [[13:05:08]] For 281 We're back. A vote is put to the vote by the Committee on the Veto of the President of Ukraine on the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized. [[on VAT “Odes port factory”]] Registration number 8019-4. Please vote. [[13:05:47]] For 315 The veto of the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Law has been overtaken. [[Registration number 8019-4]] The proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized is put to the vote. Registration number 8019-7. This is a scientific and manufacturing complex of Zoramas project gas turbines. I'd like to make up my mind. The President's proposal is put to the vote. [[13:06:42]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The proposal by the President's veto committee for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized” is put to the vote. Registration number 8019-7. I am reminded of the scientific and manufacturing complex of Zoramas project gas turbines. Please vote. [[13:07:27]] For 311 Veto overpowered. There we have already made decisions, honourable colleagues, to ban privatization during 2006. If the President makes a commitment, then the committee will make proposals to the Supreme Council. We can't. The President of Ukraine, under the new Constitution, has the right to make a vow. But after the President has failed to sign the law within 10 days, he will be published under the signing of the Supreme Council. It's under the new Constitution. It is announced for consideration by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, which has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since first November 2005. [[on the sale of goods and services for]] Registration number 3128. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Prepare Vladimir Bronnikov. I'm asking you, Your Honor, we still need to make a number of responsible decisions, not to relax. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to the Ukrainian Law, which was adopted on October 6, 2005, at number 2955, amending the Law on Electricity, it is established that the price of electricity for this category of consumers cannot exceed the level of tariffs for the rural population. [[concerning electricity tariffs for agricultural producers]] The losses of energy suppliers from the imposition of tax rates will be reimbursed from the State or local budgets. I would like to point out that last year, the average retail electricity price was about 23 kips per kilowatt-hour, and the tariff for the rural population was 14.4 kp. At an annual agricultural consumption rate of about three billion kilowatt-hours, an increase in the public budget or local budgets can reach 250 million dollars. It should also be borne in mind that underfunding for damages, energy companies will result in insufficient pay for electricity produced and fuel, coal, and gas consumed. The President also pointed out that this law did not comply with articles 13 and 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which proclaimed principles for the protection of the rights of all property subjects by owners, the equality of all before the law, the protection of competition by the State and entrepreneurial activities. The rule established by law does not correspond to article 47 of the Code of Lords, under which the State guarantees all entrepreneurs equal opportunities to engage in the use of material, technical, financial, labour and other resources. The second section of the Law provides for the validity of its corresponding position from January 1, 2006. So that's it, if it's been working for 10 days. In view of the fact that part of the third article 27 of the Budget Code is established that the laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of the expenditure portion of the budgets should be made public by August 15th, which is ahead of schedule. Otherwise, the rules applicable to the formation of the expenditure portion are not applied before the start of the budget period. In view of what has been said, Minpalevenergo asks for support from the President of Ukraine in rejecting the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u98	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. The co-report is invited by Vladimir Kostinovich Bronnikov, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, here, from this rostrum and from the seat in the hall, some of the President's advisers were spoken of. Thus, the bill that we are considering with you, which provides for the granting to farmers working in the country of benefits from the relevant subsidies from local budgets and the corresponding subsidies from the State budget under the list of managers of the budget, has no bearing on the unequal conditions. We are confident that those actors who operate in rural areas and implement energy-saving technologies use natural vegetation to produce energy, those who create jobs if there is money in local budgets, if there is money in the State budget, can receive appropriate electricity benefits. The Committee therefore rejects this amendment by the President. At the same time, the Committee agrees that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2007, since, on the one hand, the budget year has not been set aside for this benefit in the 2006 budget. With regard to the Committee, it requests that the law be amended in part, taking into account the amendment of the resident at the outset, with the rejection of the first amendment on the need to provide all actors operating in the country. Thank you for your attention. The Committee looks forward to your support. And the main ones are farmers working in the countryside, and they also rely on your support. Without this lifting of the village, job creation is unlikely to be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to enact legislation in a new edition, taking partial account of President of Ukraine's proposals. But we should probably put the President of Ukraine to the vote first. The proposal made by the President of Ukraine is that Parliament should reject the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Electricity on Businesses. I am voting first on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity. Registration number 3128. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:45]] For-16 The decision is not taken. There is a motion for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity in a new edition, taking partial account of President of Ukraine's proposals, registration number 3128. [[on the sale of goods and services for]] Please vote. [[13:15:21]] For 297 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators with proposals by the President of Ukraine since December 6, 2005, registration number 4125, has been announced for consideration. Reporter Sergey Petrovich Glaucus. Prepare the deputy head of the committee, Marcus Maria Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u101	Dear Sir, honourable national MPs, the President's remarks to this law are virtually reduced to two categories. First, uh, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, I'm not in charge, I'm Minister of Justice. So, I'm sorry, procedurally nowhere, you find me in Ukrainian law, in Ukrainian law, in any regulatory act where the premier or minister's premier status is foreseen. In the Constitution, in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u102	Let's get this straight, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u103	No, no, no. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If anyone's dreaming, it's okay with something.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u104	Please take it off at all. Take it off, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u105	is 115.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u106	Please come in. I said we got it. I said take it off. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u107	What is it? But I'm not worried, you just don't have to take the right to volunteer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u108	Well, the thing is, uh...
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u109	Thus, the comments to the Law on the Status of Investigators are summarized into two categories. First of all, I'm paying attention to MPs who have legal education, especially if they're in the hall. First. All matters relating to the status of the investigator, his rights and duties, guarantees of procedural activity, conditions of material security, and social guarantees are defined by the legislative acts in force in Ukraine. The Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, the Act on State Protection of Court Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities. Therefore, most of the rules relating to these things have already been regulated, and this law only duplicates them, duplicates the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, on the Police, on the KPC, on the Criminal Code and so on. What's more, we have a case-by-case investigation involving four authorities -- prosecutors, the D.A., the M.E.S.P.P.D., and the tax office. All these questions about the prosecutor’s office, the internal affairs, security and tax authorities are taken into account in the legislation in force. Moreover, they are already regulated by the Laws on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families; on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Staff of Internal Affairs; on the Militia; on the State Tax Service; and on the Ukrainian Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen of the lawyers! You are well aware that the legislative process does not allow new acts to be adopted on issues already settled in the same way in existing acts. The legislative process does not allow this to happen. The second category. This law contains provisions that conflict with articles 7 and 27 of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, for it, this law, does not contain any proposals for the definition of expenditure to be reduced, nor does it provide additional income to cover increased budgetary expenditure. The law does not have a limit on the determination of pensions for investigators, and this will result in a significant increase in their size compared to the amount of pension payments made to other categories of citizens in the Population Pension Fund, as well as the level of wages paid by those who are already working and this will lead to inequality or a violation of the principle of equality of citizens before the law. Therefore, the President proposes to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u110	Maria Andriyovna Marcus, deputy head of the committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u111	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The Honourable Head, honourable fellow MPs, is brought to your attention by the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 November 2005, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. For the third time on behalf of the President, there is essentially a promise of this law. Taking into account the urgent need for the introduction of this law into force, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the proposals of the President of Ukraine should be rejected under the Act on the Status of Investigators and that Ukraine should be re-adopted by the decree of 18 November 2005, no less than two thirds of the votes cast by the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I don't think it's necessary to justify the purpose of introducing this law, because the Supreme Council has already spoken three times for its support, taking as a basis the whole and in a new edition with the President's proposals. All I'm going to say is that the law will put all the investigators in the single legislative field, get the investigators out of a known addiction. And in addition, it will be a real contribution by the Supreme Council to the need for the creation of a single State investigative body so widely declared by the authorities. Please, dear colleagues, overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u112	Yes, thank you, Maria Andriyovno. Please, with Karmazin's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that in this room there are people with legal education and not only with legal education. I'd like to ask the deputies here, not to be offended, you're out of this room yourself, Sergey Petrovich. That's the first one. The other one. Do you like the fact that the authorities are in charge of the investigation, do you like it, Sergey Petrovich, that no one has removed it today? Do you like the fact that the head of the study burns, leaves the investigator's bonus unturned if he doesn't direct the case, or if he doesn't break the case against someone who thinks otherwise? This continued during the Kuchma regime, it continues now, especially in the tax system and so on. This law is a small guarantee, but only until there is a new Criminal Procedure Code. Let's take it now, beat the veto as we've done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u114	Yes, please, Gmira, then Vernigor. Verni Dubov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u115	Thank you. It seems to me that the conduct of this matter is somewhat disturbed by the strange very behaviour of Mr. Chairman. I didn't understand what he was doing. He is not the Minister of Justice since yesterday, and he does not want to be the Acting Minister. What role does he play? Throughout his statement, the gentleman approached the lawyers. He must have forgotten where he was. He is in the meeting room of the Supreme Council and should address the deputies. This gentleman, as Minister of Justice, allows himself to declare himself publicly in favour of whom he should vote and for whom he cannot be voted. After that, he is not only the Minister of Justice, he is not a lawyer at all, and it is very good that he did not treat lawyers as colleagues. If you'll excuse me, let's get back to normal, and we won't allow a provocateur who calls himself unknown to violate the meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u116	Yes, Ivan Vernidubov, please, the faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u117	“Regions” faction, Ivan Vernidubov. I would like to say that the Acting Minister of Justice is wrong when he says that other laws, such as the Criminal Procedure Code and other laws, the Prosecutor's Office Act and others, are already all the provisions of the Law on the Status of Investigators. But, for example, among the provisions of this law are those that are not reflected in other laws. For example, the obligation of an investigator to ensure the non-disclosure of pretrial investigation data, the obligation to comply with the requirements of decorruption legislation, the right of immediate admission, the right to prevent access to certain premises and in certain areas, the right to request the issuance of documents, the right to call certain persons to examine applications, the right to inform the public of the crime committed, the order of the imposition of disciplinary action on the investigator, and so forth. So this law is still necessary!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u118	Sergey Shevchuk, please, from BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to make a statement about the position of the BUT faction, which is that we've drawn attention to, that the bill that the President vetoed really contains a rule that rules the limits of pensions for investigators, which leads to a significant excess of their size, compared to other categories of citizens in the Pension Fund, as well as the level of wage, and many others are moments that don't allow us to vote positively. In addition, we take into account the fact that today's acting minister of justice has, in fact, legal education unlike the previous minister of justice and he spoke in principle today, not like yesterday, about the exotic ecstasy we heard on television, and that is why in this case we agree with Sergei the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u120	Are you done with your motives? Who's that? Please, I can't see the microphone. Remind me, please. The cat, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u121	I would like to address our radio audiences and voters who need to understand clearly that those with their backs around their mouth today are saying that the President's actions are wrong, they represent another state. Please look at the colors of the trees that are represented here, please look at their flags and look at what language they are speaking and in the interests of which state caused the gas crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u122	Please. Now, your honors, the final position of the committee, and the position of the President has been proven and we will now be determined, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the committee once again urges you to vote in favour of the law. Why? The fact is that today only one provision by the President to promise is that the status of investigator is governed by the CPC, the Criminal Code, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities. All other observations, including those relating to the salaries of investigators and their pension insurance, have already been taken into account in past editions, and these proposals by the President have already been taken into account. And we voted for them for the last time on November 17, 2005. Regrettably, those colleagues who are again focusing on this issue today may not have noticed that we have taken into account the President’s proposals. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote again and defeat the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we will vote in this order. The first is the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Status of Investigators Act. Then the committee's proposal to overcome the veto. If the veto is not overtaken, then the new edition takes into account the President's proposal, partially, there's one proposal that the President doesn't take into account, right? This way. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators, registration number 4125. Please identify yourselves, fellow believers. I think everyone here is aware and will make their own decision. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:05]] For-48 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Status of Investigators Act. Registration number 4125. Please vote. [[13.29:35]] For 230 The decision is not taken. The proposal for a committee on the adoption of Ukraine's Pro Status of Investigators Act is put to the vote in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Registration number 4125. Please vote. [[13:30:10]] For 273 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Pension Insurance and Social Protection of Military Servants, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24.11.2005, is under review. Registration number 3718-2. Reporter, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, John Natalia Ivanovna. Prepare for the head of the Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The President's proposals for the Supreme Council's legislation are based on the following principles: non-derogation of the basic principles of pension insurance for military personnel and pension social insurance; non-admission of social injustice in relation to individual categories of military personnel; non-admission of non-conformity of laws that adversely affect their practical application; and implementation of financially unsecured laws. I'm going to stop at these positions in more detail. First. The law, adopted and signed by the President, provides for the granting of the right to persons released from military service to a pension under the Act “On compulsory State Pension Insurance”. It should be noted that the current legislation sets out the procedure for including periods of military service into the insurance system for the appointment of pensioners who have been released from military service and who have not obtained the right to a military pension. In doing so, the Pension Fund is provided with appropriate deductions at the expense of the State Budget. In the law that has been adopted, such a right is granted to military officials who have acquired the right to a military pension and financial security at the expense of the State budget is not foreseen. In addition, individual categories of persons are granted the right to a retirement pension for years regardless of the time of their release from military service. Thus, the stated rules of law conflict with both the principles of social insurance, since it is proposed that periods of military service not paid to the Pension Fund be included as well as the legislation on the pension insurance of military personnel, which provides for the payment of pensions immediately after separation from service. I would like to point out that the need for a separate pension scheme for military personnel has been determined based on the speciality of military service. Thus, the destruction of the basic principles of this system will have a negative impact on the loss of motivation for long - term military service, lead to the assignment of a military pension for those who did not want to continue their service until the date of their retirement, and have already lost contact with the military service. This will also lead to lawsuits for redefinition of military pensions for mixed internships. The other one. Socio-unjustifiables can even be said to be socially unfair is to double against the current standards to 50 per cent of the amount of disposable cash assistance in the event of the release of persons who are released from the service at their own request. At the same time, 25 percent of the monthly allowance is paid to those who are freed because of family circumstances or other important reasons. Thus, there is actually an increase in incentives to refuse to continue military service. In connection with this president, a proposal is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u126	Allow the argument to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u127	save the active standards for the selected help. Third. No rule can be supported to increase the percentage of the sums of the financial security from which a pension is to be granted to aircrews of military aviation, as they are already granted the benefits of effective legislation, such as the payment of the benefit during periods of flight work up to the age of retirement, the payment of the payment of the allowance for service of years, the payment of the salary under special conditions of service, the reduction of the term of service of years for the assignment of military appointments and the establishment of higher salaries compared to the corresponding non-flight posts. Four. The President is invited to align the rules of the adopted law with other laws, namely the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, and “On State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Disabled”. Fifth. The implementation of the law adopted by the Supreme Council will result in additional spending from the State budget, which is expected to amount to 3.3 billion dollars. Money that is not legally defined by law. It may be important to consider that a substantial expansion of social security is proposed without adequate financial coverage. It is proposed to do just when the existing social security guarantees are not fully financially secured. It is, in our view, both socially unwarranted and economically unwarranted. On that note, please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u128	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee has carefully considered the president’s remarks. They're 19. The 18th Committee considers it necessary to take full account. One of the suggestions was inconsequential and had to be formulated and further amended by 10 articles or articles. [[in the fifth article]] And we did not agree with one position on the limitations of legally established rights of war invalids. The age is set when they need to be assigned pension insurance. We consider this to be a violation of article 22 of the Constitution. And that's why we consider it necessary to leave it as it was in the law. All of this was done with representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, including the Honourable Natalia Ivanovna, totally, she had to tell us about e and not take the time away from us, because we made a deal; and with the Pension Fund. With this in mind, we ask for the adoption of legislation in a new edition that practically takes into account, except for one, the proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We're going to vote on one proposal, which is actually. Change the vote. Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I would like us, if there are no members of the Defence, National Security and Defence Committee, to listen to what they have written. They wrote it quite correctly, and it also wrote the Main Scientific and Experimental Authority, which, in fact, 18 proposals are included and one cannot be considered, because it worsens article 12 (b) worsens, narrows down the pensioners who are assigned a pension. We cannot make matters worse in accordance with article 22 of the Constitution. What's more, we've got to predict now that they're going to retire in years that they didn't get paid on an unwarranted basis, and the pension was going to be 50 percent. We say it's not in the budget. But do they care?Oh, my God! How old are they?Oh, my God! Let them get that pension! We have to predict it in the budget. Let's vote for the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a committee that is in agreement with the government is put to the vote: adoption in a new edition, taking partial account of the President of Ukraine's proposals for amendments to some of Ukraine's pension and social protection laws. Registration number 3718-2. Please vote. [[13:39:23]] For 285 I said, part of the President's proposal in the new edition. There's not a single offer. Yes, the law has been passed. For - 285. The Ukrainian Act on the Order of Appointment of the Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 1 November 2005. Registration number 5459-D. Is there a reporter from the government? Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Volodymyr Yavorowski, deputy head of the committee, will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u133	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable National Deputies, President of Ukraine, have been returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Appointment of Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers, and is proposed to reject it for such reasons. The law stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the leaders of NTCU and NRC for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, suspends their mandate, relieves them of their position. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for powers for the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding NTSCs and NRCs and, in particular, for the appointment and release of their leaders. Thus, the stated provisions of the law, according to the President, conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints or elects to office, exempts persons only in the cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 15 of the first article of article 85. Parliament's mandate is limited only by those who are referred to by the basic law of Ukraine as part of the second article of article 85. Considering that the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the Supreme Council of Ukraine with powers regarding NTCUs and NRCs, and in particular with regard to the appointment and release of their leaders, the stated provisions of the law, as the President has reasoned, do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Basic Law of Ukraine, the head of state exercises the powers laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine. Neither Article 106 nor other provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine rely on the President of Ukraine to submit parliamentary nominations for the appointment of leaders of NTCU and NRC. Under these circumstances, the procedure established by law for the appointment of candidates does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the procedure provided for by law for the appointment of candidates, according to the President, also does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 6 of the Law also provides for hearings by the Supreme Council of the report of the heads of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company, on activities in appropriate positions. This is not in line with article 85, paragraph 33, of the Supreme Council for Parliamentary Control within the limits laid down in the Constitution. Articles 4 and 6 of the Act set out the procedure for dealing with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of appointment, the release of NTCC leaders, and NRC. In the meantime, part five of the current article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the order of work of the Supreme Council is established solely by the Constitution and the law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, according to the President, the situation mentioned is in conflict with article 82. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u134	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. The report invites the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, my constituents. A little retro. I want to remind you, dear colleagues and radio listeners, about spring 2004. When the first channel of television opened the divide of Ukraine into three classes of Ukrainians, when Joseph Cobson sang the famous song to you, then the Supreme Council, in effect, dared the opposition to summon and listen to Sovenk. We listened to him, everything was fine and all that. He's still working, and you know how it ended. I'm just so surprised that the President's Administration and the President forgot all of this today. That there is nothing better, better to control than Parliament, there is nothing and there cannot be. Because there are different political forces here, and that's where we need to look for consensus. We passed the law with you. A very normal, quiet law where the President, the President, no one has taken anything away, the President recommends the president of the radio company, the television company, and the Supreme Council approves it. What could be better? It's just that there's going to be social television soon, and I have no doubt about it. I understand that the Constitution does not provide for this, but, on the other hand, the Constitution does not prohibit it. I want to give you a specific example. I was in a working group that spent three months discussing various projects for the development of the National Television Company. We have been instructed by the President to appoint a presidential candidate. These were colossal discussions, which led us to invite the President to appoint Alexander Tuckenka as president, because he's a good manager, he's made a new canoe. The president said: “It’s okay. An order will be issued tomorrow.’ A month later, an order was issued to a completely different person. That's why it took three months, actually, to drive people by the nose. I'm sure it's a matter of our honour, of overcoming the President's veto today and having the President, we're not denying him the right to recommend who he thinks he is, because, if so, then, in fact, he has the Prime Minister or the Cabinet of Ministers to appoint this person, but we've gone to some compromises and we're proposing -- the President recommends it, and the Supreme Council approves it. I ask you very much to gather all the hands we have, all the heads we have and to overcome the President's veto. This will be an honor to our Parliament. This is the opinion of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u136	Thank you. Carmazine for voting reasons. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u137	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vladimir Mikhajlovich, distinguished Ivan Sergiyovich, I ask everyone to see the document that is sent to us on behalf of the President of Ukraine. I repeat, on behalf of the President. On the back you will see the signature almost at the end of the letter. I'm demonstrating that they can show it to the television companies if they're still in Ukraine independent. At the end of the letter. This indicates that the letter was signed purely and that Javorovsky was right, that the President had not read this, that no one was depriving the President of any rights, on the contrary, he was told: “Proceed this candidature.” And whoever you hand over, even Pupkin, who doesn't know the national language we've given, we'd consider it and we'd assign it. So, dear friends, I'm asking a serious question and I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council: when you get the facsimile, please send them back. Because I can see it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! The committee proposes one solution: to overcome the veto. The president is proposing to reject the law. I put to the vote the first sentence of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Appointment of the Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the Cessation of Their Powers. Registration number 5459-D. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:47:50]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. A vote is put to the vote on the proposal of the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law “On the order of appointment of the heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers”. [[presidents]] Registration number 5459-d. Please vote. [[13:48:32]] For 264 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 57, Communists - 56, “Our Ukraine” - 2, National Party - 38, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 27, National Block - 21, SPDU (o) - 15, Ukrainian National Party - 0, “Rebirth” - 8, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party - 0, “Ukraine” - 3, non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues. Please, it's Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, our distinguished voters. It's very sad, of course, that we didn't overcome that veto, that principle would be for the Supreme Council, maybe technical reasons. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that the committee be re-examined and re-edited. We must not retreat and put a cross on this bill. I understand how difficult it was for him to defend the president's position, because no one asked him when he was appointed president of the television company. Because of this, John Sergiyovich is now, in effect, a decorative man. And I understand how hard it was for him to do that. But let's go back to this bill and assign it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u140	The committee, please do a new edition, a new proposal, we will consider. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a simplified procedure. Let's continue our morning session for 15 minutes if there's no warning. A draft Act amending the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual standards]] Registration number 7368. Rapporteur: National Deputy Dobkin, co-reporter, committee head Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. There's a reporter, there's a co-reporter? So we're moving on to the question. And as for the previous draft of our draft order of appointment, I would like to ask the committee to work on the proposals, and by Thursday we will consider them. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition is being announced for consideration. [[on expert research]] Registration number 5111. Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine, Olujko, will be screened by Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. This law defines the legal principles of support and protection of economic competition aimed at ensuring the effective functioning of Ukraine's economy through the development of competitive relations. The proposed project aims to improve the legislative regulation of the conduct of an expert study that can be carried out during the review by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine of cases of violations of economic competition legislation. The bill proposed for consideration should it be adopted, it will allow for more detail of the procedural status of the subjects involved in dealing with violations of economic competition legislation, and will help to increase the objectivity and credibility of the expert opinion, which is extremely important for such cases. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Philip Philipovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, on March 16, 2005, the Committee on Economic Policy reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Protection of Economic Competition, registration number 5111, introduced by the Oluiko People's Deputy. I recall that the Economic Competition Protection Act 2001 defined legal principles for supporting and protecting economic competition, limiting monopolies of economic activity. The draft law that is under consideration today aims to improve the procedure for conducting an expert study in the case of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and to bring it closer to the procedure for conducting an expert study in the civil process. It is suggested that those who take part in the review of the infringement of economic competition legislation be given the right to make proposals on the issues that are being submitted for expertise in this matter. The project foresees that when dealing with matters, it will take into account the suggestions made by the parties, the expert will have the right to file concerns about providing the materials necessary to conclude and to point out the circumstances that are relevant to the case. The committee decided to recommend Bill 5111 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u144	Thank you, too. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is the first to be recorded. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The law that we passed back in January 2001 that really defined the legal principles of support and protection of economic competition, the restriction of monopolies predicted that it would be possible to assign expertise to the antitrust committee. But the rights of those parties that were present were not taken into account. I mean, when you, the party, ask a question and ask an antimonopoly committee, ask an expert a question like that, you could just be ignored and not heard. This can't be done in a criminal process, in a civil process, anywhere, here -- it just became possible. That is why I am grateful to the national deputy Oluiko. That he made these proposals and they are properly supported by the Committee, that we should adopt this bill in the first reading, but in the form proposed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Why? I'm going to point out what is not counted and what is proposed. When appointing expertise and setting up a series of questions to be put before experts, the relevant body of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine takes into account the proposals made by the parties and other persons involved in the case. The rejection of the questions proposed to those who take part in the business of the Ukrainian Monopoly Committee should motivate them. The appointment of experts shall include questions on which expert and expert conclusions are needed. So in the first reading with these additions, with the specificization of people's rights and with the fact that we still write to this, that the biased questions that are motivated are also dealt with so that we can then be sued in court, and now we can be sued in court, in accordance with the current Constitution, and in accordance with those administrative courts that we create, in fact, to create as in recess. Yesterday, the issue of resignation is being resolved and a committee of legal reform, a legal policy, is being convened to appoint judges. Is that how it's done? I'm simply forbidding this practice. During plenary sessions, no committee meetings are to be held anywhere, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If you are the host of the Supreme Council, please issue such an order. Because this essentially limits the rights of national deputies, members of the committee. Either we sit here, or we run around the committees. It's a nuisance, it needs to be changed. So let us adopt this law in the first reading and thank the author and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u146	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u147	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. Ukraine’s Law on Protection of Economic Competition was adopted early in 2001. He certainly defined the main points of activity and included legal principles of support and protection of economic competition, restrictions on monopolies in the business sector, aimed at developing competitive relationships and establishing order for providing and conducting expertise. However, life has made adjustments. And the antitrust committees were increasingly monopolizing the matter of conducting the expertise. The current law of Ukraine does not clearly define the rights of persons who make suggestions on the issues raised in the field of expertise. Socialists support the changes made to the law and support the fact that it is appropriate for the law to make changes to such fundamentals. The Antimonopoly Committee will now have no right but must take into account the proposals made by the parties involved in dealing with violations of economic competition legislation. And, of course, it will be much easier to defend their rights in the protection of economic competition for those who. which rights will or may be impaired as regards the Antimonopoly Committee. Next. The antitrust committee should now motivate, not simply speak or define itself, but be motivated, which is extremely important in the same court. The expert has the right to claim concern about providing the materials needed to form the necessary conclusions. Thus, it is certainly necessary to adopt this bill in the first reading. The Socialists will support the bill in the first reading and will vote for it. This law will also increase the budget component, the income portion of the budgets of different levels, and the social sphere, and education, and medicine, and culture will also benefit greatly from it. Socialists support this bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u148	Yes, Yuri Solomatin. None. Mikola Sherschun, prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u149	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Chairman. Dear colleagues. One folk saying states: “A child is actively taught to speak and then to remain silent for the rest of his life.” But silence is a big difference especially when it comes to keeping economic secrets, which regulate the whole spectrum of economic competition. Realizing the importance of the problem for the national economic system comes when you start thinking about, it would seem, well-known economic fundamental truths, such as the main driving forces of market relations, particularly the need to limit the monopolies of economic activity and create to ensure an effective economy of Ukraine based on the development of competition. Therefore, the proposed Bill No. 5111 of the People's Block of Lithuania is considered not only relevant, but also to initiate a series of steps aimed at expanding the legal field by regulating very important issues regarding the creation of conditions of real competition. [[on the protection of economic competition]] I think this bill is late for at least 10 years. Obviously, if it were to occur in advance, we would have far fewer cases of poor competition, since poor competition is one of the most important causes of serious economic shocks, such as the gas crisis, the food crisis, and a number of other crises. Therefore, not only do my fellow members of the People’s Block of Lithuania support this bill, which will more fully standardize the activities of the entities involved in dealing with violations of economic competition legislation, but it will continue to promote and encourage the development of economic competition in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u150	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Michael Gladys, can I have the right to speak, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u151	Michael Gladys, please pass on the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The broad rights of the Antimonopoly Committee on Market Impact in situations that have been identified by law may not be used by destination. There is a risk that the committee will become one of the pillars of an administrative resource that acts in the interests of the State. This increased the risk of a pre-election campaign, which the Antimonopoly Committee was actively involved in. And in fact, so that it doesn't look like the Antimonopoly Committee becomes a monopolistic structure, this Bill 5111 gives an expert the right to carry out a full analysis of the problem that has become the subject of verification. The expert is allowed to analyze questions that are not mentioned in the Antimonopoly Committee’s request. What can we conclude? The bill allows for greater transparency of expertise, based on the Antimonopoly Committee, conclusions on the existence of market monopolies and decisions on sanctions. Next. The bill reduces the risk of using the Antimonopoly Committee functions to exert administrative pressure on business entities. And the third. The adoption of the bill will allow the Antimonopoly Committee to continue to develop towards democratization and openness. Thus, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. The Committee's proposal is to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. [[on expert research]] Registration number 5111. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. Based on the base. [[14:05:46]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that according to our schedule of meetings today we are working in plenary mode: i.e. from 16 to 18 we will have a plenary session. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, for this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u154	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko The honourable parliamentarians, who, by their presence, confirm the viability of our Supreme Council, the Committee on Freedom of Speech wants us to go back to the bill that we have considered and which has not taken literally a few votes before the veto. We propose a completely civilized normal return to this bill. It was previously written in this bill, and it is very important that it is introduced immediately after its publication. We propose to change this line, and this is a new version of the bill, and to introduce it from May 1st, only after the elections, when on a full scale, the Supreme Council will occupy its niche in the power of Ukraine. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to change this line and to establish that the law has been introduced since May 1st this year. And put him to the vote. It just takes 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, we can put to the vote. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Appointment of Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers, in a new edition, noting that the law takes effect after the formation of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine after the results of the March 2006 elections, i.e. from May 1st, let us write down. Yes, please. No, you can't. Please, Karmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to do one more vote: first votead hoc that we may return from the vote is provided for in the Rules. We will vote this -- and we will immediately vote for cleanliness so that no one will have the question that the Supreme Council is going to break something this time. Please listen to my recommendation, as provided by the Rules. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m0.u157	Please. Who is in favour of going back to the review of the Ukrainian Law of Registration 5459dd "On the Order of Appointment of Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers", please vote. [[14:08:55]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Who is responsible for going back to law school? Registration number 5459-D. Please vote. Please vote. [[2:09:31]] For 226 We're back. Now, honourable colleagues are voting, a proposal is made by the committee on the adoption of this law in a new edition, noting that it has entered into force since May 1, 2006. In view of this, I am voting on the adoption of the law in the new edition. Registration number 5459-D. Please vote. [[14:10:14]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue the plenary session.
