ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:58]] They registered in the 345 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare open. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the birth of Ukraine’s national deputy, Vaszczuk Catherine Timothy. Let us welcome Catherine Timothy and wish her good health. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on January 19, 2006. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 13 laws and two decrees were passed, two bills were adopted on a basis, and three bills were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, four laws have been passed in a new edition. Dear national deputies, according to Friday’s Rules, we have 30 minutes to make speeches to the national deputies with the announcement of requests, statements, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Here comes the recording. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies who are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also announce the questions that have come from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Mr. Andrija ŠKILA to the President of Ukraine on information on corruption and abuse of office by former President Leonid KUCHMI of Ukraine, former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich, National Deputy Victor Pinchuk, in the privatization of the Open Shareholder Society “Crivoristal”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:10]] For-84 Request not supported. Igor CHELOMBITZA to the President of Ukraine on the maintenance of the legality and protection of the interests of the Ukrainian producer in carrying out the calculations of the state enterprises of the Republic of Moldova for the goods imported from Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:45]] For-75 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the protection of the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people, the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine and the national security of the State. [[Kravčuk, Gavrish, storm]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:17]] For-137 Request not supported. Groups of People's Deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the bribery of voters by the political bloc “Our Ukraine” and the use of administrative resources by the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov. [[Kaletnik, Slauta, Samofalov, Korsakov]] Hennady RUDENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure for the Review of Bills. TO THE Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul SULKOVSKOV, on the legality of receiving housing compensation from the national deputies of Ukraine, Sergey Alexiyak and Yuri Shirk. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister's office in connection with the allocation of funds for the construction of the pipeline of Semenovna Oboloń in the Seminal region of Poltava. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the prime minister’s responsibilities for gasification of the school in the village of Kovalenka in the province of Žitomir. GREGORY OF THE CALETIAN to the prime minister for failure by the Ministry of Economics and the Vinick district administration of the State Budget Act for the financing of gasification objects. Mr. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister’s responsibility to increase the salaries of employees in institutions and cultural institutions. Gennady RUDENKA to the prime minister's duties regarding the violation of property rights of state-owned enterprises and institutions as a balance sheet for service-householders. Sergey DOROGUNSOVA to the Prime Minister's duties to restore the rights of residents of polluted regions to payment and compensation in accordance with the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. WITNESSES to the prime minister’s duties regarding the continuation of contracts between Sevastopol’s entrepreneurial activities and the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister's duties to violate the rights of residential enterprises in the taxation system. Vassila KALINCHUKA to the prime minister’s duties regarding the allocation of funds for the purchase of medical equipment for the treatment of brain tumors. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the prime minister’s duties of gasification of the village of Big Copani in the region of Herson. Vassila HARI to the Prime Minister's duty to interfere unlawfully with the performance of Vice Prime Minister Kirilenko's duties in the work of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister's obligation to ensure payment of payments to Ukraine's Honorary Donors in accordance with the Law on Blood Donation and its Components. RAISES BETWEEN THE prime minister's responsibilities regarding the inadequate response of the Ministry of Health to the situation in Ukraine, with a sharp increase in the incidence of measles. GREGORY BONDARENCA to the prime minister's duties regarding the benefits to citizens for solid fuel and scrapped gas. Mr. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister's responsibilities to create a government commission to study the activities of the RSDP-RCP-KP(b)-KPSS-KPU and HCCP-NCD-MGB-KGB in Ukraine from 1905 to 1991. Vladimír CIBULK to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Attorney General, as acting Minister of Industrial Policy for the acquisition of fuel-oil materials by the State Enterprise. Antonova or the “National Union of Antons” Corporation. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, acting Minister of Defence for the appointment of a member of the military, citizen Antonishev. GREGORY OF THE CALETIAN to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, to bring criminal responsibility to the head of the Provincial State Administration of Dombrovsky for embezzlement of state land. Anatholic to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund, on the problems of social protection for the workers of the Hersonian Combined. Vladimir MAZURENKA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, the Minister of Economics, to provide patients with chronic renal insufficiency with cost-effective materials. FIXA to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Vinnick district administration for the gasification of the village of Sidov Žmerinsky. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, Attorney General, on the abuse of office and violation of the right of civil servants to pay for work. LILIA GREGOROVIĆ to the Secretary of the RNBO regarding the failure of political pressure on a public official. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General for not responding to the MP’s request. Alexia Korsakova and Leonidas ISAYEVA to the Attorney General for the groundless dismissal of the Krečer District Court of Kiev. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney General for the transfer of a nursing home in Kiev to the communal property of the Pecher district. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General, Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, on the conflict situation that resulted from the illegal acquisition by a group of persons of the property of the “MTZ” and the “Orian Ship Yard” company. Vassila NADRAGUA to the Attorney General for accusing officials of the Jubilee Village Council of Lugansk of the purposeless use of the funds allocated for the construction of the gas boiler. Valery ACPEAN to the Attorney General for the illegal removal of Kharkiv by the Land Administration. Mr Mikli Caterinczuk to the Attorney General about the rights of the Hmilnik sanatorium when making a decision by the tendering committee of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General on gross violations of labour legislation, non-payment of wages by the management of the Olshan Oil Company. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy responsible for the failure to pay child and child support to the village of Seminovka Poltavsk. HOMUTINICA's Vitaly to the Attorney General on the facts of the violation of legislation by the leadership of the State Macyev Research Institute for the Safety of Mining Works. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Ignorance by the City Council of the Suma District District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee on Tariffs for Wastewater Treatment. MICHELLA TO the Attorney General on the social and technological situation that took place at the Lighthouse “Calculator”. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the purpose of bringing the Malian Specialkair rental company to bankruptcy and impeding the implementation of its recovery plan. GREGORY TO THE Attorney General for providing information on the results of the pretrial investigation into the charges against Boris Kolesnikov and Eugene Kushnarov for committing crimes. The SASA secretariat to the Attorney General on the legality of signing a memorandum between the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the State Aviation Safety Supervisory Service and the Airworld Air Company. SERGY DOROMUNZOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of the constitutional right to work and persecution for the political reasons of the head of the Brusilova manufacturing company of the residential and utility farms of the Žitomir region of Latvia. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General on the facts of chemical poisoning and the acquisition of funds by the management of the Verbka agro-firm, the purposeless use of funds by officials of the rural council of the village of Verbicka District. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General on the legality of the criminal case by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Odessa Region. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the alienation of the Proton Central Casualty Construction Office of non-residential premises belonging to the State in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ms. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the annulment of the decision of the Kharkiv District Council. Anatolia PISTARENKA to the Attorney General on the violation by the City Council of the rights of members of society with limited responsibility for “Gen San”. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General about the violation of the rights of the people of the house on Boden Street. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General for the provision of inadequacies of services and for the violation of current legislation by the Ukrainian International Labour Exchange. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General for violating environmental legislation by the head of the Gardener Society. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of property rights of employees of the former Slavić collective enterprise in the Belozer region of the Hersonian region. MICHAYLA ACCOMMODATED with the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the RNBO for delaying the prosecution of the city of Kyiv to investigate a criminal case involving the setting up of resonant assassins of the former chief of the Azov Naval Navy of the People’s Deputies of Bandura’s first convocation. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for improper consideration by the Attorney General’s Office of the Chamber of Deputies. Gregory OMELCHEN — the Attorney General’s office for providing comprehensive information on the previous trials of Yanukovich, the crimes he committed, and the falsification of material on his rehabilitation. Larissa VAZANKO to the Attorney General, Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Acting Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the protection of the constitutional rights of members of the Society, the legality of the Directorate and Prosecutor's Office in the case of an accident in production. Tamara Proscurating to the Attorney General, the Head of the Lugansk District Authority for violations of legislation, abuse of power, neglect of the interests of education and of citizens by officials of the city of Severodoneck. Efima FIXA to the Attorney General, Head of the “Agrorash” Society, on the groundless refusal of employees to issue documents to support their work at the company. Teams of National Deputies to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Acting Minister of Justice, the Head of the DPA, the Head of the Head of the Ministry of the Interior, regarding the neglect of the constitutional rights of citizens by law enforcement authorities in the Winnicki district. [[Beetle, hedgehog]] Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the purpose of bringing officials of the Hersonian Office of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region to justice. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court for the violation by the Kirovograd District Court and the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd area of material and procedural law. GOVERNMENT to the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibilities in drawing on the responsibility of the Nacradia’s management in the field of television and radio communication to prevent employees from performing their duties. Mikhail Kosiva to the Minister of Internal Affairs's duties regarding information on the poisoning of premises, where the State Specialised Publications “High School” is located. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison to complete the electrification of the Lviv-Morshin-Dolina-Kallus railway. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of State, Prosecutor General, on the conditions for the publication of interrogation protocols by the former Head of the State Property Fund, a candidate for the National Deputies from the Chechtov M.V. [[CORSACOVE, VERNIDOUBOV, AND OTHER]] VADIM MISSURA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the Minister of Health’s duty to reduce the child’s bed sheets and release medical staff from the Wallovach Hospital. To the Minister of Industrial Policy in charge of the discharge of Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Grishtenka, Vladimir Y. Stanislav STREBKA to the Minister of Transport’s duties and communication regarding the resolution of issues related to the container terminal of the Illyshiv Seaport. Vassil ADVANCES to perform the duties of the Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of the State Property Fund in respect of non-execution by the management of VAT “Stranger” of article 73 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” and other requirements of current legislation. Larissa VACHENKODO, Minister of Education and Science, Acting Minister of Transport and Liaison for Transportation Services of the Kalus Special School. Vladimir PUSAKOVA is responsible for the Ministry of Health for the critical situation in the Kirovograd district tuberculosis hospital. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Minister of Economy’s duties regarding the calculation of the economic impact of the signed Agreement on the Supply of Natural Gas to Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Property Fund regarding the legal property of an indwelling house on Yaroslavska Street in the Podilski district of Kyiv. [[PAC, DELIVERY, AKIRCO]] MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the State Customs Office on problems with imports into the territory of Ukraine of cars for disabled persons. Vassila NADRAVIA to the Minister of Defense’s duties in respect of the pension provision of military personnel in the Ternopil region. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General, for the use of illegal electoral technologies. HOLDIMIR BONDARENKA to the Head of Public Administration for the removal of officials of State administration from the timely provision of necessary information and documentation at the request of the national deputy. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Head of Kharkiv District State Administration regarding the destruction of the forest in the village of Bezludivka, Kharkiv district. VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to the executive responsibility of the Vinick City Head for the provision of room for the exercise of parliamentary powers. VOLDIMARY KEY to the Minister of Justice’s responsibility for unlawful refusal to give birth to a child by the Poltava Rural Council. Ivan YVANCHA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Finance in violation of the rights of investors by the Investment Company Naftenergo Invest. The SASA branch to the Head of the State Property Fund on the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Trade Union Council. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the President of the National Academy of Sciences regarding the contempt of the MP’s request for discharge from the post of Doroguntsov. Alexia YAROSLAVSKI to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the legal assessment of the actions of Judge Frunzen of the District Court of Harkov Alferova. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, Head of the Sevastopol City Administration for Support of the Sevastopol Centre for Disabled Sports, the solution of socio-economic problems of disabled athletes, and the provision of a project for the construction of the International Center for Underwater Navigation. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the State Administration of Rail Transport “Urzlzalnica” regarding the request of the Volin region of the Ivano-Frankov Region for the electrification of the railway. Anatoly of the Writer’s Office to the Head of the Donetsk district government regarding the unsatisfactory housing situation in Donetsk. John YVANCHO to the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration on the unsatisfactory conditions for the educational process in the Batov school-seat of the Bereg region. Thus, the distinguished national MPs have made 90 parliamentary inquiries. Let's move on to national MPs with statements and reports, information. Paul Sulkovski, Party of the Ukraine Region, is invited to the presentation. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u3	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u4	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Respectful fellow countrymen, in connection with severe frosts, are appropriate and the advice given by the President of Ukraine on January 13. He advised Ukrainian citizens to seal the windows and cover the houses with straw and boots. Of course, the older generation remembers that immediately after the war, when there was cold, ruin, famine, people actually built windows and fanners and mattresses and laid houses with straw. But we ask the President of Ukraine to say this in the next broadcast: where to get straw, because in 2005, under the government of Yushchenko, Timoshenko and Yehanurov, 40-60 percent of the land was not sown. He would be pleased to advise, but how can we put straw on a multistory? And for one thing, the President would explain to the Ukrainian citizens who are advising him to do such a stupid thing. Perhaps these counselors have not only straw but half in their heads. Because unless the councilors can advise the President to introduce the President's rule, start a referendum, dissolve parliament and all that. By the way, the Party of Regions supports the President's idea of holding a referendum, but we will insist on including the Russian language as a second national language, the attitude towards NATO, the accession to the EP and so forth. So please conduct. And that's why the Party of Regions thinks, honourable fellow countrymen, we need to think in Ukrainian not only to urge, but to think in Ukrainian how to save Ukrainian citizens today. Not to act on the advice of the Americans, but to think, to worry about Ukrainian. And the Party of Regions thinks, no matter who you are, whether you're a Russian or a Greek or a Tatar, we're all Ukrainian, let's think together, worry about Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u5	Victor Terrence passes on the right to speak to Vladimir Yavorowski. Getting ready for John the Rabbit instead of Yuri Costenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have these three minutes to bring to the Ukrainian society the main points of reference, the position of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. First, we are convinced that Ukraine has a legitimate, elected Presidential people, his name is Victor Yushchenko. We are fully aware that Ukraine today has a legitimate Ukrainian government, elected by the Supreme Council, headed by Yuri Yehanurov, but we also have another government, and we don't have another President. But we really want the Ukrainian society to know that there are no other national MPs in the President and in the government of another parliament. Because of this, it is right here, in this trinity, that we need to seek an understanding and a solution to this situation. I want to say again, we supported Victor Yushchenk in the elections, and we believe that Ukraine has not made a mistake by choosing Victor Yushchenko, because if we had chosen him, I don't know if there was this Parliament today and whether there was Ukraine today. It's my right to think so. But we stood on the ground, we supported Yushchenk in order to have new authority, so that we could tell both the President and the government the truth, because for the sake of truth, the people went out into the field. Because of this, we are fully aware that our President, Viktor Yushchenko, has made several dramatic mistakes over the year of his reign. The first is the breakup of the orange team, the resignation of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, about whom five days ago were exhibited, and 10 days later it was discovered that he had failed the economy. The second mistake is a truce and a memorandum signed with Yanukovic. The President didn't ask us when he was going to this trouble and actually brought Yanukovich back from political non-existence, if you want to from political dead and make him today the main opponent of the democratic forces in Ukraine. And what he signed today is no longer necessary. He did what he had to do. He pulled all his associates out of prison, he saved the entire Donetsk criminal business and they'll support him until the last. I want to say that in this government today there are a lot of beautiful people -- statesmen, moral professionals. Why is the same secretary of defense worth it? But another mistake Victor Yushchenk made was that he signed the Law on the Inviolability of People's Deputies, if he had vetoed it, we would never have overcome that veto here. I want to say again that we have the President. We're ready today, I want to say last, some say we're on the block with Yanukovic and all that. When you're riding in a car and there's a bandit in that car, are you a bandit? That was the case. I say once again, Ukraine, there are our partners -- it's a democracy we'll never fight with, leave the hysteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u7	Yes, John the Rabbit, instead of Yuri Kostenko, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u8	Ivan Hare Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plush. A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! In connection with the political situation in Ukraine, the UNODC faction claims. First. The main cause of the political crisis, which is deliberately formed in Ukraine, is the defeat of the anti-Ukrainian forces during the 2004 presidential elections and the desire of the opposition to rematch the next parliamentary elections. It draws attention to the fact that the actions of the parliamentary communist majority against the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, including the recent decision of the Supreme Council to resign the government, and yesterday’s so - called redundancies of ministers coincide in times and with the exacerbation of relations with Russia - gas conflicts, captured by Russian military Ukrainian lighthouses, the new wave of economic war against the national goods manufacturer by banning Russia from importing meat and trumpets into its territory because of the coordination of actions both external and domestic anti - Ukrainian forces. The other one. The UNP faction notes that the crisis in Ukraine is directly driven by the actions of the Supreme Council’s leadership, in particular by the speaker’s violation of the decision-making procedure regarding the resignation of the government and the blocking of the oath of new members of the Constitutional Court. We must also acknowledge that the rapid changes to the basic law rather than the democratization of society and the improvement of the work of power in real life have led to legal chaos and the destruction of the institutions of power. Third. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the President of Ukraine in his policy of forming good neighbourly relations with Russia on the basis of international law. At the same time, we are surprised at the position of our yesterday's political allies, who are opposed to this process. Because it is the integration of the people of Lithuania and the Botanists with the pro-Russian part of the Ukrainian Parliament that is actually encouraging Russia to take the unfriendly steps about Ukraine that have been demonstrated recently. And the last. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party warns that the political crisis that the opposition is artificially trying to cause in Ukraine will strike the most in the interests of the average citizens. Because the government's resignation and, as a result, its limitations on its ability to influence the difficult economic situation in Ukraine, including the Russian activities, are exacerbating the living conditions of the vast majority of citizens. In the circumstances that have arisen, we demand that most of us: First. Cancel the Supreme Council's Retirement Order. The other one. Immediately to the oath of the members of the Constitutional Court. This is the legal way out of the crisis, this is what the Ukrainian people need. And if the opposition protects the interests of the Ukrainian people, it must do so. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy encourages you to follow the right path rather than push Ukraine onto the path of conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u9	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Prepare Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u10	Declarations by the National Movement of Ukraine on the political situation in Ukraine. The electoral campaign, which began in Ukraine, and the efforts of the well-known political forces, as directed by the Eastern neighbour to “repay” in Ukraine's clutches for the orange revolutions, provoked a situation close to the beginning of the political crisis in the state. At the same time, we can say that the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine have managed to stabilise the socio-economic situation in Ukraine. An extremely important issue of energy supply and industry has been addressed. Ukraine came out of an extremely difficult gas problem that was presented to us in the New Year's “strategic” partner Russia. A gas dispute has demonstrated to the entire democratic world that Ukraine is a consistent and reliable partner in fulfilling its commitments. Trust in new power by democratic countries and the Ukrainian people today is understandable to everyone but most parliaments in our Supreme Council. At a time when all politicians, irrespective of color and political affiliation, need to be united in order to create Ukraine, a gas issue that has been resolved without bringing Ukraine’s national interests together has been translated into a plane of provocation of political crisis and an attempt has been made to send the government away. Moreover, the same attacks continued at yesterday’s parliamentary session. Obviously, this has been done and done to serve the interests of the Eastern neighboring State and it is regrettable that our partners in the orange field have been involved in these anti - Ukrainian activities. What is more, in today's situation where the new Ukrainian authorities and diplomacy are trying to bring about the Ukrainian property that is in use of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, all those who are so sincere in telling and swearing to protect Ukraine's national interests today are like the waters in the mouths of Russia's aggressions in the Crimea. Unless we fought together with the previous regime to ensure that today Ukrainian diplomacy, which is finally in the interests of Ukraine, is a hostage of attacks by red-and-blue and slanted people who never defend Ukrainian national interests and do not do so, they think by the categories of vassals, hooves and not Ukrainians. Ukrainian society requires stability and normal work from the Supreme Council, not the transformation of parliament into a pre-election platform for political marginals. Ukrainian citizens deserve life! But it can be provided with the truth of the Ukrainian Parliament, not a parliament where most are the Moscow Duma branch, which advocates Russia's interests. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u11	Valérie Assadchev is invited to the presentation. And Pekleshenko's handing over the right to speak to Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u12	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka. Dear friends, well, today, thank God, the last plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, and I think it would be right for us to look at ourselves a little bit, because everyone is criticizing only the President, the government is bad, let's sum it up, and what a good Supreme Council we have. The so - called majority continued the plenary sessions for a week. And what did you do this week for the Ukrainian people? There are benefits under the Law on the Children of War: yes, we have many children of war here in the Supreme Council. This is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. He's a child of war. He has houses abroad. That's why he needs help transporting. We may also have Julia Volodymyrna, a child of war, truth, a gas war, and a poor woman living somewhere in a five - story building, who raised all the money on board. True, there are about 10 million. dollars are valued for her running boards. I'll even give you an example of how yesterday you passed a law amending the Law on the Election of National Deputies. Even such a basic thing did not succeed in doing professionally — the law on the election of national MPs was changed and the locals were not changed. [[voting time from 7 to 22]] And how will it be practical now? The same commissions on the same plots are going to work from the seventh to the 22nd and those from the 8th to the 8th. This is the job of most of the Supreme Council, the Bush-Communist majority. So I think, Mr. President, before you talk about the President or the government, you should look at yourself first: what you accept and what is useful to Ukraine. In fact, this week gave the Ukrainian people nothing good. And you shouldn't have kept it going. And in general, the more this Supreme Council, this caedence, the worse it's going to be in Ukraine. That's why I think the President's view of her would be absolutely right. God forbid he should just dare to do that! But I think if he doesn't dare, in two months, the Ukrainian people themselves will clearly determine who should be present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and who should work for the good of the Ukrainian people. And I am convinced that those who work openly for another state today will not be in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u13	Alexander Pecklesenko passes on the right to speak to Paul Sulkowski. The point is, dear colleagues, one minute, one minute! Let's get this straight. Well, he handed me this application. That's why I'm in charge. If it's wrong, let's check now, he won't be speaking. I don't check the signatures, my dear colleagues! Here's a document. Dear people's deputies, one minute, one minute! I, the honourable people's deputies, let us thus, my fellow believers! I was handed over -- they've already spoken, five notes with the signatures "please hand it over." Well, I'm not running around or checking! Well, from Hell! Please come in. Please calm down, time is running out!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Who doesn't want Sulkovsky to speak? Don't want a commando on my right, because they know that Sulkowski will tell the truth about their actions, where they won't be of any use, especially to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Today, indeed, the Supreme Council has taken responsibility for the Ukrainian people to have stability and order in Ukraine the chaos that took place during 2005. And it must be said directly and frankly that all those promises, those voting programs that were promised a year ago by the new authority, had failed completely. And that's why today you don't have to shout out to individual political forces, literally, in front of me today, they say to the Ukrainian people that in the next Parliament there will be forces that are really, really well-thinking, that are really going to do everything to make the Ukrainian people live a stable and prosperous life. So he stood in front of me and said that they would not come. Who won't come? Yes, this same political power may not come, which he has just called out. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to say something like this: The government resigned second in this period of new authority late. Because governments like Ulysses Volodymyrni Timoshenko and Yehanurov, if, for example, there were no such a crisis in Ukraine, is a guarantee. And that's why we're talking today, even what. The memos were signed and signed. Why did Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko sign the Law on Intactness? And let's face it, if Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko hadn't signed the Intactity Act, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko's environment would have suffered a hundred times more than Viktor Yanukovic. That's why the president signed this Act, not refused. Therefore, dear friends, we should not say that Parliament has worked in vain this week. During this week, Parliament has sent a number of provocations, such as the Glaucoma and Plačkov, which, by their actions, are practically provoking the Ukrainian society and leading it to instability. And that's why the entire Parliament came forward this Sunday. So, dear colleagues, it's all right. We'll close the session today. And a party of regions and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u15	Vladimir Cibulko refers the right to speak to Olga Kobec. Prepare Ludmila Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u16	Olga Kobecz, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Just before me some Pharisees and impostors wanted to mislead the Ukrainian people, speaking of what needs to be seen, to accuse the President of all the sins we are now committing by the Supreme Council. I would like to remind our voters that the law on the inviolability of local, local council members was adopted by the Supreme Council in most cases, which exceeds the obligation to exceed the veto of the President. So it was the President who had to send this law and not veto it. But I have a mandate to announce in a statement from the Ukrainian Republican Party the Council, which has consistently advocated and advocated a reform of local self-government in Ukraine that would give the territorial communities not only real rights but also the necessary resources to fulfil their obligations to the electorate. This should be done by the adoption of the law amending the Constitution in part of the guarantees for local self - government number 3207-1, developed under the leadership of the Matviennek Party and adopted at the first reading on December 8, 2004. Bill No. 3207-1 was intended to establish the principle of the universalization of local self-government at the district and district levels, to provide opportunities for improving the administrative and territorial system of the State. On December 23, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without proper prior expert discussion, passed Bill 3207-1 in a reiteration of the new edition of Alexander Moroz. According to the findings, this text contains a number of unacceptable positions. Yes, Parliament has been given the right to decommission the settlements and it is not excluded that a draft decision on the liquidation of the city of Lviv or Donetska may be introduced into the session hall. By introducing the concept of “district” the system of the administrative and territorial system and local self-government is finally confused. The abolition of district government administrations at the same time as district government administrations may result in total paralysis of the executive vertical in the state. At the same time, the bill in the new edition does not allow for the introduction of the principle of widespread local self - government. The Council's SRP states that the final adoption of Bill No. 3207 in this edition could have serious consequences for the State as a whole, leading to the de facto collapse of Ukraine on the part of the fair princes. That's why we have to send him out and not vote for him. Please note, too, that some Pharisees here still want to prove what is in our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u17	Yes, Vladimir. Dear colleagues, Larissa Kirichenko is invited to attend. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya Ludmila Kirichenko, I'm sorry. Ludmila Kirichenko, Ludmila Fedorovna Kirichenko Well, I like Larissa. Well, what can I say.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, colleagues, radio listeners, despite the fact that the topic of the gas agreement between Gazprom and Naftegaz Ukraine has been repeatedly criticized in Parliament, the Government and Naftogaz are completely ignoring Parliament's views and intensifying the work on the establishment of the SP. As is known from official sources, at the Government meeting on 18 January, Mr. Ehanurov ordered that all necessary work be expedited between Naftogaz and Roskre Energo, and Mr. Plačkov immediately reported that 21 will be done tomorrow. JS documents and volume and price contracts for gas have been signed. At the same time, Mr. Plačkov is absolutely confident in advance that the Antimonopoly Committee's consent will be obtained. And what will Ukraine and the Ukrainian people win? Prior to the establishment of the SP, public enterprises carried out transport and gas services in Ukraine. And, of course, the profits from their activities went to our budget, which was a third part of the budget without a small one. Now that the National Patriots have concluded the so-called winning agreement, half the profits will pass the budget, the unknown founder of RosUkrenergo. The authority that has declared fair and transparent policies does not disturb the fact that Rosukrenego does not even promise to publish its constituents soon. It has not been six months since the announcements that all mediation structures will be eliminated in order to combat the shadow economy, as the power itself has created a colossal mediator of the monopolist. Can it be viewed differently as a corrupt act? In addition, I would like to ask, what work will the employees of the enterprise who are forced to close without these gas prices? Or power has already created a million jobs and is no longer interested in the fate of the individual. It is particularly important to emphasize that, at a time when there is a sharp lack of funds to address the production of its own gas, the upgrading of technological equipment, the development of energy-saving technologies, the Naftogaza money is diverted to the creation of a questionable SP. What conclusion is asked what can be said about such acts of authority? Of course, these are anti-national actions against public interests for the purpose of personal enrichment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u19	Viacheslav Koval. A faction of the National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! After winning Victor Yushchenka's presidential election, the democratic development of the state was finally filled with real meaning. In Ukraine, work on mechanisms of fair political competition and freedom of political activity and political choice. They have not violated the democratic principles of the rule of law, equality before the law, and the right to an honest expression. The Ukrainian People's Movement faction, which states that future elections to the Supreme Council and local authorities will be the first real democratic elections to Ukraine's new history. The Ukrainian People’s Movement advocates an honest political struggle and a level playing field for all political forces. And it points out that in no way will they resort to provoking new social opposition and the use of technology and compromising soldiers for discreditation and opponents. This is exactly the kind of technology that today is using the new community-regional unification of political forces, which have also been hit by some of yesterday's "proponents" and "fighters" for the ideas of the orange revolution. Regrettably, they use the same dirty methods that the Kuchma regime fought against them in its own time. The Ukrainian People's Movement faction claims that because of loud statements and unfounded accusations, retired government officials from yesterday and their political companions are trying to prove their professional utility to society. Yet the political sympathy of the Ukrainians continues to place them in the role of political outsiders. At the same time, we urge all Ukrainians not to allow the rematch of a new-hot political union called “Not such a botanist commune-region” and claim that they are all united today by a thirst for gain and a questionable past. We're always stressing that we're determined to win an honest victory, so any use of dirty political perceptions is unacceptable. As the elections neared, political radicals and the power of the old authorities were raising their heads to seek a rematch. Political projects aimed at disorienting voters began to be implemented. The election race is overcrowding with baseless and groundless accusations of power. The faction of the National Movement of Ukraine emphasizes: mutual understanding, fair and transparent elections, the integration of healthy forces in society is the optimal foundation for the continuation of the changes that have begun for the better. All our political partners we want to see together, Ukraine is one. Then we should be the only ones. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u21	Yes, we have one minute left. Here Moses ’ recorded right to speak is passed on to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. John the Rabbit, Ukrainian National Bile Kostenka and Ivy. Dear National Deputies! Honorable representatives of the parliamentary majority! I want to ask you to stop these processes of destabilization in the political situation of Ukraine. And we, after all, need to bring Parliament into a state of readiness that will ensure the adoption of quality laws. What I mean. I mean, we need to consider the question of parliamentary immunity. Because people don't understand why hundreds of thousands of deputies have parliamentary immunity. If they live honestly, if they work under the law, they have nothing to fear. Because if there is such intrusiveness, it means that many are coming into this Supreme Council to cover themselves up from being held accountable for criminal crimes, not to think of the people, but to think about their business. So let's start with ourselves. But the Supreme Council, the parliamentary majority in principle, doesn't want to include this bill in the agenda. Last Thursday we voted for the bill, where my bill is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u23	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, thank you. What, what? 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u24	And who didn't vote? Neither the “regions” nor the Social Democrats nor the BUT or the Communists voted. So I want the voters to know that the parliamentary majority is opposed to being touched. And the Ukrainian People's Block of Kostenko and Plushka announces a referendum and please support us in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u25	Yes, distinguished national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to allow you to announce that we're done here. For the suggestions made in the speeches of the national deputies, I ask you to prepare an appropriate commission. Now, dear colleagues, a few announcements. As we are very actively discussing the results of the vote on the "On the Status of Deputies of Local Councils" Act, I will announce the results of the vote. “For” was voted by 230 national deputies. Postfactions are 16. 270 voted. Afterfractions – 16, Our Ukraine – 4, Communist faction – 55, Socialist faction – 55, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party – 0 faction of Yulia Timoshenko – 34 “for”, Socialist Party faction – 25 “for”, Ukraine’s “for” – 48, “One Ukraine” – “for” – 11, Democratic Ukraine – “for” – 19, People’s Party — “for” – 35, Ukrainian People’s Party” — “for” — 11, Ukrainian Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs’ faction — “for” – 12, Ukrainian People’s Movement — “for” – 0. [[united]] Next, dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Regarding the performance of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the entire plenary week from January 17 to 19. Six plenary sessions took place, 48 issues discussed. As a result of the review, 18 laws were passed, two decrees were adopted, 14 bills were adopted on a basis, 6 bills were drafted, and 12 bills were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, four laws have been adopted in a new edition. And one more thing, dear colleagues. On 19 January 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act “On Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine on Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” and “On Elections of Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads”, which amended the voting time. Dear National Deputies! We checked the information given by Valérie Mikolaiovich Assadchev. The situation thus seems to be the right thing to do. The only clarification to be made is that the commissions should report 22 hours to the CTC on the number of voters. This clarification can be moved to 24 hours. And there's no position about what's going on there. We checked with Yuri Klukkowski. Please read the law! Please repeat to Assadchev. Microphone, please. Microphone. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us be correct. We changed only one law yesterday -- the People's Deputies Election Act. And I told you there was another law about local elections. And in this law about local elections, there's the term, the time stands from 8 to 20. And the elections take place in the same polling stations as the same committees. So it turns out that these two laws aren't harmonised, that's what I said in the speech today. And so it is. It needs to be harmonised or canceled what was adopted yesterday, or the law on local elections should also make such a change.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u27	I would like to say again, my dear colleagues, that we did not disorient the voters, who changed the two laws: the law on local elections and the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Obviously, you need to read the law before making an assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, we have one appeal for dissatisfaction with the MP's request. But this is Mikhailo Rodionov. Where are your papers? Your papers are not available. There's no tissue. That's the only one I've got. I ask the Secretariat of Tkalenka documents to see. Honourable national MPs, two factions – the BUT faction and the “One Ukraine” call for recesses. What are we going to do? Please! We didn't look at the agenda; we were looking at the law. Please read the law! I'm asking you again! Who will speak from the faction? Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Part of a friend of mine. I'm not going to be, your honorary colleagues and honourable voters, not going to go down to the level of discussion with my colleagues, but, unfortunately, with older boys who can't hide their enormous affections to Julia Timoshenko. And I think they're even willing to hang on this hair. I will not go down to the level of discussion with this woman, who is sitting in parliament for five days, who has not even warmed up the place -- she has run from one faction to another, and today she is teaching us how to live. I want to say one thing: to bring to you the fullness of the position of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, which is surrounded by so many speculations and misunderstandings today: why we voted for the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. I stand before you, which week before New Year's Eve, I was still publicly proud of my government, which holds its position. I talked about it in public. But when we read these documents, when we looked at the whole depth of the gap that Ukraine is being pushed into and ripped from under, the last thing that we had, I couldn't do otherwise, and the faction that I belong to, I couldn't do it. When even Taruta, the pre-Denetic oligarch, who voted for Yashchenka and said it openly, if he also said that he could not go to Yushchenk and tell him all this truth about this gas affair when Ukraine. This government has done one thing: to hold on to the elections, and after the elections, what will happen is what will happen. Russia will raise prices, and its hands are not tied. And we're going to set up now, I'm going to point out this, we're already being informed that they're creating this joint venture that we're going to bring our gas pipe into. Two or three years from now, two or three months from now, give me your word, they'll be huge, we'll go into debt, they'll take this pipe away, they'll take the last one. I emphasize that there are many beautiful people in this government. Why is Boutéiko worth sitting for, and what is the value of a foreign minister? But when, if you've watched Shandra talk to Dovecher, I'm ashamed. Chandra acted like a harmful high school student. The dove stuck him behind the belt, he can't answer, how much is this gas going to cost? 500 directors of the largest companies signed up for bankruptcy. Nitrogen, which has gas for raw materials, will have to be thrown into the streets by 7,000 people. That's where it is, what we voted for. I confess, we've got 190 votes, we're innocent that at the last minute another political power joined, that's her right. I say again, but the government is, it works. What prevents him from working today? There is a legitimate president, work for health, because we vote that everyone on the list go to the polls and leave their seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u29	Dear national MPs, please, dissatisfaction with the answer. Papers were found, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u30	Alexander Tkalenko. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I am no longer the first time, speaking out of this rostrum, I am forced to address the painful question that the boomerang has reflected on our authority with you, among the common people. And it refers to the irresponsible attitude of employees and officials of law enforcement authorities to the consideration of parliamentary appeals and questions. In particular, out of the 6 requests and requests, almost three months later, this correspondence was sent to the Office of the Belarus District of the Hersson Region, concerning the conduct of checks on complaints by residents of the District, and only the last reply had more, less objective information, with a profound contrast to the previous formal references. For more than 3 months now, officials of the Hersson area law enforcement agencies have not responded to the egregious facts of violations of current legislation and criminal offences in the form of bribes, beating officials, including state officials with strong law enforcement structures, I apologize, security firms that have taken the place of the Hersonagroproject Institute with the former director of Bratikiv. The same is true of my repeated appeal to the Prosecutor's Office of the Herson Region, the Prosecutor's Office of the same Bilozer district as regards the reaction to the fact that assets were sold and the shares of the closed stock company “Cornobaevské”. On my request to carry out a review of the ZAT. “Socrates” of Ivano-Franco’s company “Avangarde” and the conformity of the procedure for purchasing the implementation of the ownership of the control package of the company’s shares. The Law of Ukraine “On Economic Companies, Securities, Stock Exchange”, the position on securities to other legal acts already in which the officials of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Herson region add an answer in their letters that ignores the report itself and the substance of the questions raised. In doing so, they run counter to valid legislation and their official duties, whose main task is to protect the rights and interests of citizens. In particular, by affirming the legality of the purchase of securities, named shares of the SPT “Cornobaev” company Socrates, which was not and is not the founder and shareholder of this company. In this way, prosecutors are effectively contributing to the violation of the corporate rights of real shareholders and founders of a society whose shares under article 25 of the Law on Economic Societies are only implemented within the framework of the ZAT and may be in free circulation. In addressing the Attorney General, I ask for a thorough examination of the facts by assessing the professional and service activities and the appropriateness of the positions of the Directors of Public Prosecutions of the Belozer district of Herson. Thank you for your attention. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two factions at a time. Is it a break or a performance? Just a minute. We first applied for a faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine and our Ukraine. Jaroslav Kenzior will perform and then two more factions – industrialists and entrepreneurs and “Reforms and Orders”. I understand that you, Igor Raphaelovich, will be speaking, yes? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, you know, wise people always use national wisdom in various situations. They say don't call a wolf out of the woods. I mean my colleague Vladimir Yavorowski's speech. My dear colleague, my dear friend, you know, no one in the hair is a great honor to be hanged in the hair. You can hang on your hair when it's natural, when it's really strong, reliable, but when the hair is removed and placed under the pillow at night, and along with it, conscience, conscience, and patriotism, we need not be intimidated by such things and desires. This time. But, you know, in our, in the Supreme Council rostrum, you can hear amazing things when open criminal authority comes out to the rostrum and talks about fighting corruption, when the last, donate, political courtesan and from the already rotten political brothel speaks again about decency and everything else, about political ideals and love for Ukraine, it gets ugly and creepy. Mr. Volodymyr, I am focusing on your name as much as you have on the political panel, starting with the People's Movement, from some coalition with the Donate clans in 98, PRP, “Our Ukraine”, “Our Fatherland”. Whose cow is running, and yours would be silent, Mr. Volodymyr. Like yours, as it were, the morals of a writer are a disgrace to the bandits, and so is the singing of the bandits. There can be no such political prostitutes in the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to speak now. I'll do it. Now there's gonna be a line. Let's get out of here, then a line, well, one minute. I've announced, Andrew, I'm asking you, maybe the arguments will be now. Now Igor Raphaelovich will appear, and there will be a line. Well, we made a deal. Well, there's gonna be a line, so can we just wait a minute? There's gonna be a line. Igor Raphailovich, please. I've announced. There'll be a line, one minute. I'm asking you, one minute on the line, it'll only be one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u35	I'm asking you to calm down, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u36	Deputies! I want to go back to the gas problem. Imagine the following policy. All heat stations require carbon of appropriate calories -- 5,000 kilograms in kilograms -- for that coal to be enriched. But wealth is expensive. It's a lot cheaper to take cheap coal, bad coal, and make a 40-dollar gas highlighter a thousand cubic feet, because it's cheap. And so all the power plants go to poor coal with a 40-dollar gas light per thousand cubic meters. There's a metallurgy, you have to blow coal into a domain furnace. But it's much cheaper than cracking and blowing up a natural gas that costs $40 very cheap. And so all the metallurgy goes into 40 dollars of natural gas. Instead of modernizing the boilers, the utility sector converts into a cheap 40 - dollar gas. The whole state went to $40 for cheap gas, which makes a smart Russia? Smart Russia waits for a moment and at some point raises the gas to $232 per thousand cubic meters. What should Ukraine do in that work? She has to sneak across to Russia and ask what to do with the transition moment and so on. What should we do as the Supreme Council in such a situation? In such a situation, we should be wise. I understand that the government has to be criticized for what it did wrong, let's say it's a contract that's unfavourable and so on. But this criticism should contribute to the strengthening of this government. The government must be strong for further agreements. This government will be replaced by another government, but it must also be a strong Ukrainian government. This should be our main policy, it should be the policy of continuous negotiations with Russia. But the government must come out as a strong government, not a weak government. And this is the kind of policy that we should be doing here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u37	Vladimir Yavorowski has the right to a replica. Please. Two other factions then claimed: the faction “Ukraine” and the SDPU(o). Igor Šurm will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u38	They say Kenzier mentioned me twice, so I probably have two minutes. But I won't, I won't abuse your attention. I want to say this. A person who is very sick with greatness has no need for greatness, enough of mania itself, and has found this to be true. This time. The other one. Dear colleague, Mr. Sportsman! You're really sick of greatness, because I didn't mean at all that you're an old man, I meant a completely different person, much smarter and more tolerant than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u39	Igor Šurma, please. From two factions: SDPU(o) and ‘Ukraine’.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u40	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] With great sadness, I went out to the rostrum today, because a year after the revolution, I never thought that clean hands would bend by the hairs, and we had to look at it all. Well, if they're talking about manic-depressive syndromes themselves, I'll add that closer to March 26, the more global, the more technological, the informational shocks in Ukraine. Frightening, scavengering in search of an enemy is more agonizing in some ways than common sense. And for five years now, Ukraine has shuddered at the shocks of the Gongadze case. Although, what can be said about the Millionaire today — where is he? What's going on? Nothing! The United Social Democrats have long been used to the accusations that all of us are making. I wonder how we agreed that we were involved in the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. But what he said on direct air today, the liberated minister of justice must need an absolute interpretation. The organizer of all the troubles, Victor Medvedchuk. I thank the Chief for finally admitting that this man has a great talent as an organizer. Although he has no relevance to those facts. Because he came to the President's Office two years later when Gongadze disappeared when the Headate was showing off his laundry on customs control. The government was released later. But anyway, I'm not going to be adamant about the change and attitude of Victor Medvechuk, it's in everyone's hands. But what I would like to say is that a person who constantly twists the facts deserves expertise. I'm sure he'll still have to work in the government. I know it's coming from the block. I'd recommend you do an expert. If he is a public person, publish the results of his mental and physical health. If he is a public man, he must ensure it. And I'll tell these colleagues. When you speak of inviolability, today we have heard our vote for the integrity of the deputies. Social Democrats didn't vote. And you voted, "He who lies is on the same side of the hat burns." And with regard to administrative resources, I have to tell you one thing. With this poster, the block “Our Ukraine” was transferred to the entire parliament as enemies of the people, but the poster was released without a sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u41	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Obviously, we all need to calm down. I'd like to say one thing, dear colleagues. For a long time in the session hall, Zubchenko Mikhajlovich worked alongside us. He was 65 years old today. He saw many deputies, he saw various passions. So let us welcome him to work with us, and we wish him good health. Well, he's gone, but he's listening to what we're talking about. Oh, if you don't mind, there is when he comes in, we'll give him the flowers. I think it'll calm us all down and calm us down now. There you are. Mikhailovich, if you don't mind, it's broken. Tradition, let me say hello. Dear National Deputies! I have no right, I have not yet exercised the right to speak as a result of the interruption of two factions: Rebirth and UNODC. Ukrainian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. I'm speaking from the position of two of these factions. We're very concerned that the Supreme Council is pushing this situation, that we're crossing all lines, that we're flooding each other with dirt, that we don't want to solve political issues, we don't want to adopt laws that would benefit Ukraine. It's not right for us, it's not right for the Supreme Council to act that way. We're showing a very low level of culture. And when people look. Don't beat me up, because that's true of you, ladies and gentlemen, who are sitting here under one of the blue flags. This is not proper because we are representatives of the people. And the people are very offended that they are expecting us, that we will work here for their interests, for Ukraine's sakes, and they see that people for their corporate interests, for their own personal interests, have forgotten everything. And so today we have this political crisis, let's speak frankly, in Ukraine, from which we have to look for a way out. And the best way to do that is to do it through legal mechanisms. We should have had a Constitutional Court. And you, knowing what you're doing wrong, I'm addressing the parliamentary majority, you're resigning the government, you're weakening our power, especially in negotiations with Moscow, and here you're crying that we have a bad president, we have a bad government, and you're putting yourself in the back of the government rather than this government. This is not what the patriots of Ukraine do. Patriots in the country, when pressure is exerted on the state, on either side, whether from Moscow or Israel or from the United States, they unite, unite together before this threat, unite with their citizens. And what I'm hearing is I'm seeing just how some clans are fighting other clans, because it's clear that in the Supreme Council there were no professional politicians, and very many oligarchs, very many people came to use power as the most profitable self-enrichment enterprise. And today you're tearing this Ukraine apart, tearing up its energy system, breaking up its unity. That's why the Ukrainian People's Block and the Renaissance faction, we urge you to stop this conflict, we urge you to unite around the national interests of Ukraine. Don't forget that we have Ukraine alone, that our people have elected this Ukraine, he has voted, he wants people to live here normally, not to skin off this nation and disgrace Ukraine to all the worlds. So don't yell at me, don't shout! I have been here for many years defending national interests and standing up for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! We agreed that we would consider the bills that we have set for today. Then we'll summarize our work. We were supposed to be looking at Bill 8687-1 right now, but we discussed it on the Conciliation Council, and we concluded that since there is no consolidated support now, we should postpone the draft bill. I mean making changes to the Elections Act so that people who didn't get on the list for different reasons could get that right on the basis of decisions. There is no support – why look now? We agreed that we would put him away for the month of February if there were no warnings. Therefore, the draft Law amending the Law on the Diplomatic Service of Ukraine is now under review. [[on nominations for posts]] The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Šibko Vitali Jakovic. Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, this is about the fact that we now have the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. I remind you that this law was passed in 2001, and it defines the legal principles and order of the organization of diplomatic service as an integral part of the public service, as well as the legal status of civil servants in diplomatic service. The substance of this bill, which is being introduced, is determined that the third part of article 13 should be amended as follows: “Appointment to and discharge from diplomatic posts” should be supplemented by a provision to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs conducts consultations on candidates at the next meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs, which takes place not later than one month before the submission of the President of Ukraine, as a rule. The presence of a candidate for the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine, a Permanent Representative of Ukraine to an international organization at this meeting, is mandatory. The results of the consultations shall be included in the minutes of the Committee’s next meeting. In what way did I benefit from this change? The adoption of the bill will allow for a more detailed procedure for consultations on the nominations of an extraordinary and authorised Ambassador of Ukraine or a permanent representative to an international organization to be held in accordance with part three of article 13 of the Act. I would like to emphasize that this is true in the whole world: it is the representative bodies who determine who to be and who not to be in one country or another as a representative. We come to this, as they say, even slower, because we're just talking about consultations so we don't go into the Constitution. Keep going. Here was a note from our administration, which I will also announce that the results of the consultations are included in the Committee's agenda report, in fact, duplicates the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 20 states that the protocol indicates decisions, recommendations, conclusions. So the committee agreed, he considered the issue, unanimously decided to support the bill, and there was a proposal to accept it in the first reading, taking into account the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u45	Thank you, you too. Dear colleagues, I think this is how we will proceed: we will ask First Deputy Minister Anton Denisovich Buteyko to express the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then we will be determined. Is there no objection? Anton Denisovich, please take the microphone. Well, if it's more comfortable here, please. Please, if you'd be more comfortable here, you'd better be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u46	The honourable head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, welcome you and I would like to say that for the time being, according to the address of the Supreme Council, was a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, to whom the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has expressed its consent to the mechanism of consultation. And that's why we thought that in this situation, the mechanism worked and further approved of this mechanism in the Law, no, there's no need for further approval. If you decide to do it anyway, I'd like to ask you to consider the following. First, the appointment of ambassadors or representatives of Ukraine to international organizations, it clearly provides for a degree of confidentiality. Because if a candidate is to be consulted, it is essential that this information does not go beyond the committee, because there will still be a mechanism for obtaining an agreman. And of course, in this connection it would be important to protect this person who will be a candidate for the ambassador. The other one. I would therefore suggest that, after the words “the Minister of Foreign Affairs conducts consultations”, the words “in private order” should be added. The other one. Obviously, the consultations themselves can take place before the submission to the President of Ukraine. And in this connection it is not appropriate to include the term for which it is due. And the third. There's a moment. In practice, we have faced the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is considering some issues and does not have a quorum. So I would like to suggest that it should be taken into account that when there is a consultation, there will be a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs where there should be a quorum. And that moment would be taken into account. But I repeat, we are now working with the Supreme Council and the Committee, and these consultations are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Anton Denisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, here's an offer to briefly discuss, to exchange thoughts on this bill. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, isn't it? Sergey Shevchuk, please. Get ready for Santa Claus, if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u48	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, reverend Anton Denisovich. We've always listened to your opinion as an experienced diplomat. But unfortunately, today you don't agree with what the author of the legislative initiative and the one who proposes the committee is a parliament. And it's kind of surprising. After all, the same practice of consulting on a committee of those who would be appointed as the high - ranking ambassador of our State to other states or representatives of Ukraine in international organizations had a place to live, and it justified itself. Later she was suspended and, unfortunately, there were other facts when the Ukrainian ambassador to the neighbouring state was held intoxicated and later moved to another country, the truth to another continent. There have been cases of non-professional activity by the ambassadors when a former representative of the President's Administration went to the ambassador and spoke, proving that the main wealth of Ukraine is a hall in chocolate. And things like that, so parliamentary control is a necessary procedure. The appointment of representatives of our state abroad. Parliamentary diplomacy in general complements diplomacy with human resources. It has its own features. It is always more open, sharper, yet diplomatic makeup, and more objectively highlights the problems, events, and situation surrounding Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are quite active in participating in international organisations, and I will give you just one example that Oleg Belarus, the Ukrainian national deputy, was elected Vice-President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Not only was he elected but he also achieved that the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev, would be the venue for the annual session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in 2007. This is a great honor after such measures were taken in Washington, Brussels, and the next one will be the capital, the city of Kiev. Parliament's consultations, therefore, will not only be of a monitoring nature, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be experiencing, but also more of a recommendation for future diplomats to hear the opinion of Parliament. Of course, if the committee does not have odious figures and some parliamentarians who have a stained reputation for sex formerly and the term “sportsman”, there is certainly no need to listen to them. I recall that it is the Supreme Council, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, that should form the principles of foreign policy and national security and that the bill meets those requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u49	Yes, Mikola Sadowa, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Basil Nadrag. I can't see. John the Rabbit. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u50	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. With regard to the bill, he envisages establishing a procedure for consultations at the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign matters on the appointment of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine, a permanent representative of Ukraine in international organizations. This should certainly be the norm. Because since 1 January 2006, we have been living in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, whoever wants anything, but we have to acknowledge this fact that we have a small period of time left before the new elections, the parliamentary elections, and after the parliamentary elections, this transitional period will end, and Ukraine will go completely to the parliamentary-presidential republic. As Ukraine moves to the ranks of the parliamentary-presidential republic, the role of the Supreme Council, its committees on the adoption of a decision is increased. As well as those consultations that need to be followed in order for Parliament to have control over all branches of authority. Including and as far as the diplomatic corps is concerned, because Parliament is now responsible not only for the formation of the government, but also for the actions that are being carried out in the government, for what will be in the state. We consider it appropriate to support those standards that apply to the invitation of such a wide audience, when candidates, including representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are discussed, including working meetings, meetings with committee members, and other consultations. Socialists, I emphasize that socialists support the bill in the first reading. After March 26, Parliament will be different from other functions. And once again, I emphasize that he is taking responsibility not only for agreeing to approve a minister, but he must be responsible for the consequences of the government's work that the government will have. It is therefore necessary to adopt this bill in the first reading and I urge all deputies to vote in favour. This bill is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u51	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the same is true of the Hare, Assadchev, and the rest, I do not see. Gennady Josephovich Widow's microphone, please. And invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can vote. Hennadiah Josephovich Vudovenko’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, today we are talking about increasing the role of the Supreme Council in state affairs, including foreign affairs. One of my colleagues spoke and said that the Supreme Council formed the principles of foreign policy. The other one. I would like to draw attention to Anton Borisovich Buteyko's proposal. For the first time, he noted that there was already a mechanism for consultation according to the exchange of letters between the Head of the Supreme Council and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Zlenko. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is informing, the committee is in place, the candidates for these meetings are coming. It's working today. But I would like, like the former diplomat, to stress a very important point about and the offer of Boutéiko about the need to manage confidentiality when considering a candidate. Today, let's say, at the consultations, the committee found it inappropriate to assign a particular country, but it could be in another country. But when it is no longer rejected or any negative recommendations the committee has made, it may strike a highly qualified person. And the last. If this law is to be adopted, it is, of course, to be adopted in the first reading. And the last. The fact, no, colleague Shevchuk said about a diplomat: “Evaluated but drunk by driving.” He was not drunk at the wheel. He was set up. And he's a very experienced man. And thank God we didn't lose such a highly qualified diplomat. We don't have that many, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u53	Yes, distinguished national MPs! The draft law has been finalized. No, you weren't, we just finished. If you insist, please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u54	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! It was understood that the practice that was being put in place today, when, in fact, Parliament had no influence and no possibility of influencing foreign policy. This is how we practice. Unfortunately, this happened when narrow group interests, which were actually concerned with how to transfer funds from Ukraine outside Ukraine to foreign banks, formed the diplomatic corps that was also involved in promoting the country's destiny. And I think that that proposal that came back, it goes back to the point where Parliament really intervened and had a direct impact on the formation of those or other external vectors. And that's why we need to support this initiative. And I would also like to remind you of what happened, I was on the commission for eight years at that time called the Commission of the Supreme Council for Foreign Affairs. We influenced, we discussed, we recommended. So we took some of our responsibility. And I don't think any of this is going to happen about what he's doing as a warning to Anton Denisovich Buteyko, which is a particular feature of the diplomatic corps. You know, we've only just formed our diplomats. We had a Soviet diplomatic spill. And when you don't go anywhere where we've met people who aren't qualified, who don't even know what Ukraine is, they don't even speak the national language. I think this practice must be forgotten. But taking this opportunity, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I personally invite you and all the MPs and all the radio audiences to the Teacher’s House tonight, where we celebrate the Day of Assembly of Ukraine, so that the intensities that came out of the mouth of John Alexander the Hare remind us that even at the time of the greatest disaster, when Ukraine was divided when it was scattered, it found political will to unite. And in 1990, we held a chain of unification from Lviv to the last borders of Ukraine, reminding us that we are Ukraine, an ancient nation, that we can always find understanding and that platform, when national interests are the highest for us, for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u55	Dear National Deputies! Before the vote. What we need to strengthen the cooperation of the relevant committees with the relevant ministries is, in this case, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on European Integration, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, obviously, and the mechanism, in principle, provided for in the law in force. At the same time, I asked our Committee on Foreign Affairs how much had been agreed upon or had been consulted at least formally in the appointment of new ambassadors. If I'm not mistaken, Anton Denisovich, about three dozen new ambassadors have been appointed, and the committee said that no actual consultations have been held. So when it comes to getting into a formal relationship, it's a sign that we haven't worked together, we don't have any contacts, and we obviously need to make them. I think any rule of law, if there's no desire and trust, it won't let us have that kind of cooperation. Such cooperation. So you could agree, I think the government will support this proposal -- take it as a basis, and then we'll look at the format in which we write so that we don't have to harm each other by taking care of a common position. In this case, he spoke to Josephus Vudovenko. No warning? That is why I propose, my fellow Members, to accept the committee's proposal and to adopt the draft Law on Diplomatic Service on candidates for appointment. Registration number 5656. On the ground, please vote. [[11:42:24]] For 231 Decision taken. By factions, please: "Regions of Ukraine" - 47, Communists - 49, People's Party - 36, "Our Ukraine" - 1, "Block of Timoshenko" - 22, "SPU - 20, National Block - 18, "SDPU" - 12, "Ukrainian People's Party" - 3, "Rebirth" - 2, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs - 10, National Movement of Ukraine, "Reforms and Orders" - zero, "One Ukraine" - 7, non-fractional - 4. Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, let us consult. People’s deputies are coming along and are now proposing that we close the session so that you can go to the districts that are planning to do so today. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u56	Then allow me, my fellow Members, to say a few words about our legal work. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u57	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! We're finishing the eighth session under difficult conditions. At least one of these conclusions seems undeniable and common to us all, namely, that the Supreme Council has become a real center of political and state life, real and influential. And it will depend on us how much we can use, how we manage it. Why I'm talking about this because there are mixed thoughts and mixed assessments of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we all -- one more, one less -- add to make the Supreme Council critical. But, I think, in general, it's a critical assessment of our social life, our social status, and that's what we need to talk about. It's quite obvious that we need a break until the next session, by the first Tuesday of February, so that we can stop, think about what's going on in Ukrainian politics, what's going on in Ukrainian life, and what's going on in that time from labels, from trying as hard as possible to say as much about each other as possible, to say about the opponent. I think we need to have a civilized election and prepare for elections, not through spells and assurances that there will be no administrative resource, but simply exclude the possibilities of this administrative resource and finally give people the opportunity to determine what program they want to see, which politicians they want to see and what line they want to see in their internal and external lives. What's important is that this line is in line with national interests and that we don't go to each other's rights and claim a monopoly on patriotism. This line, this position should reflect the deep interests that people want: they want security, they want stability, they want a state that they can respect and that respects and protects their interests. I think, despite all the difficulties, it's good that the discussion went to the walls of the Supreme Council. To some extent, it is the Supreme Council that provides balance and dialogue in society. What are some of the forms that this dialogue takes? This reflects our culture in general, the complexity of the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. I think, on the other hand, it's worth mentioning that we're on the eve of the Day of Assembly. But there has been such a tradition in our history, in our lives, that this celebration testifies to both our ability, and our understanding of the problems and challenges facing Ukraine, but that understanding always revolves around opposition. Remember January 22, many years ago, the merger after that disengagement. Consider the events that took place and related them to the presidential election. When, in fact, we have reached a consensus understanding of what Ukraine needs. But after that, virtually nothing has been done to bind, sew, Ukraine, which is beautifully disguised, but poorly sewn, in territorial, secular, economic, psychological, informational, and other dimensions. Today, I would like all of us, dear colleagues, to call for understanding. We have been urged to give up offers and calls that will not be implemented, that offer only spectacles instead of bread, and that, again, will lead to disunity, to the disunity of Ukraine. In spite of that, I would like to point out to you, Mr. President, that the Supreme Council was doing its job and was trying to do it well, in addition to the basic array of legislative acts that needed to be considered. I'll just go to dry statistics. We have it, I want people to hear it, and we don't want to humiliate ourselves, at the same time, because we want people to support us. They won't love us selectively. They will respect us if we do what Ukraine needs. I'd like to, my fellow Members, when we talk about the decisions made by the Supreme Council, so that we don't see any evil schemes behind them -- it's an assessment of the opacity and unfavourability of decisions, and we'll probably still feel them that were taken for Ukraine. It's not a serious, confidential conversation, it's a lack of cooperation, it's a lack of cooperation, it's a lack of cooperation that we've been forced to do before, and now they don't want to do anything at all. That's how you do. We're moving in different columns. And society lives by its own direction, by its own vector. The collision occurs only on the streets, as it was a year ago. We don't need revolutions, we don't need to look for storms, and we hope that we can get people's support at a wave of revolutions. It's not the right way. The revolutions did not make anyone happy at least in the next 10 years after they happened. Now with the results of the work. You know, the honourable colleagues that were introduced to the consideration of this session, which we are concluding, 805 issues. Another 91 drafts were added to my agenda. In 48 days of plenary work, we had 72 meetings. A 640 - question solution has been discussed and adopted. We held five parliamentary hearings. We had seven days of government. I think there's someone we can add if there's not enough. We adopted Ukraine’s budget on time. I would like to say, dear colleagues, the budget was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, finding an additional 10 billion dollars. We have considered a series of laws that deal with such sensitive issues as the introduction to the WTO. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we continue working on this issue to call for a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, where negative moments and losses have been recorded by the Supreme Council since these decisions were taken. There's no positive yet. There's only one loss. But preventive measures to make these losses impossible, unfortunately, we did not see, because there is a finding, not a work of prejudice, of prejudice. During our work, we passed 622 draft laws. Among them were adopted or confirmed as laws of 220 documents. In the first, second reading, 72 bills were approved. Since its inception, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed 1,150 laws. By the way, I'd like to say that against the previous period it's almost 100 more laws. We passed 340 decrees. I would like to say, fellow honourable Members, that the most pressing of the thematic focus has been the committees, such as the committees on economic policy, ownership and management of national agriculture and investment. Committee on Finance and Banking, Committee on Law Enforcement. Of the laws adopted at the time of the conclusion of the session, 139 laws were signed and entered into force. At the same time, my fellow Members, I would like to highlight one particular feature, 55 laws that have taken effect, are laws that, these are the documents that the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have proposed. This is much more than in previous times. The rest, 44.5%, is the result of a legislative initiative by Ukrainian national deputies. And as for one more moment, your Honorable colleagues, regarding cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the President of Ukraine. I would like to say that Ukrainian President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko introduced 50 drafts to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely 47, and three confirmed by the previous President. Adopted as Laws 39, in the first, second reading adopted 1 and rejected 7. This is an extremely high result and shows that, despite the complexity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council makes decisions that are well-founded, which are essential for the country. And finally, my fellow officers, I would like to say that here, in the session room, almost 4,000 questions were made, almost 4,000 questions. The questions addressed to the President of Ukraine are less than 1%. The left-hand side, these are 26% requests to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, almost 23% requests. Now, dear colleagues, there are 1,000 677 drafts in the portfolio of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committees propose to consider at the next session, the ninth session, a little over a quarter, taking into account the limited possibilities for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my conviction, my firm hope, I believe that all of us, the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, will provide a political dialogue in society during the parliamentary campaign and we will ensure that the Supreme Council fulfils its equally important legislative function. I'd like to thank all of you for your work and wish you success in the election campaign, so there are as many people here as possible who would prove their profession, their ability, their patriotism in the absence of someone's monopoly on patriotism. We all love Ukraine, perhaps everyone can see in their own Ukraine. Good for you and good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-20-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the next fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on February 7. The eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
