ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u1	I'm asking the deputies to sit down. There are over three hundred national deputies in the hall. We're opening an evening session of Parliament. As you well recall, at this morning's meeting, we invited the President of Ukraine to hold an evening meeting with him to consider the political and legal situation in Ukraine. As you have entrusted me, I have addressed the President not only with a letter, but with two conversations with him, and. Sorry, I forgot to register. Sign up for an evening session, so I'm interrupting my sleep and I'm asking you to sign up. Please. [[16:03:44]] There are 305 national deputies registered in the hall, and the evening session is open. So I'm going to continue what I started with. I've had two conversations with Victor Andryovich, and these discussions have actually ended with what we need to look for understanding in society right now, and to do so, we need to choose the most appropriate ones to do so, because the problem that has been created for a long time in society, particularly the last two years -- the division of society -- exists. And the President, feeling it, feeling it strongly, and in fact, not just making decisions in this situation, is proposing steps that have proved their effectiveness in other countries. And so do we in Ukraine. I mean holding a round table with the most influential political parties, representatives of parliament, various branches of government, and having this conversation, in the presence of the press, in the presence of the media in general tomorrow at the Marian Palace, about 14 a.m., after the end of the morning session of Parliament. In view of this situation, I met with the faction leaders and had a more specific conversation with Roman Petrovich on this subject, and I think he might be able to comment on this, the Immortal, conversation with the President. Other faction leaders, representatives of factions, have their thoughts on this matter. And we agree that, in this case, we should listen to the position of the President and respect him, respect him and the law, and that he is responsible for the situation in the State as her head, conduct a round table tomorrow, determine there, say, courses to bring together the positions of various political structures in society and help solve the problem that concerns all concerned people today, in particular the deputies, about the unification of Ukraine's politics and the unification of Ukrainian society. I think it's very important, it's important, and I think it might be effective. That is why we will not be discussing the political situation today. I think we will have, if we need it, a basis for it, and in this case it would be appropriate to listen once again to the President's proposal to hold a round table and find out many things in this way. In my opinion, this will be a fairly effective step, at least I hope. Is there any other way of thinking about it? There's an offer for a brief exchange of thoughts, let's say three minutes, five minutes from the faction. No objections? Come on, but once again, we're not discussing the situation, we're discussing this proposal for a round table and all that. Is there no objection? Then let's write it down so I can have a legal basis or a procedural basis to give a word to those who wish to speak from factions. Richter's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u2	Please give the floor to the leader of the faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u4	Dear compatriots, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies! The interests of the state, of the people, of our society as a whole now demand more than ever our common consideration, tolerance, understanding. Ukrainian society as a result of political intrigue, division to the East and the West. We see political adventurers trying to create a state-wide atmosphere of chaos, disorder, legal disorder in order to achieve the anti-constitutional dissolution of the Supreme Council. The radically unbalanced political forces tried to overthrow the work of the anti - crisis coalition, but when they realized that they would not succeed, they were now trying to provoke civil conflict. In this situation, you and I, your distinguished colleagues, must show great national wisdom. We must forget everything that separates us and find what unites us. At this responsible moment, we must begin our mutual cooperation with a clean sheet with no blunders, no past mistakes. And the first line on this clean sheet should be the words, “Good for the people of Ukraine!” There are no more important criteria, no higher targets. I call on you, fellow Members of Parliament, to express decisively "no" to radicals and political adventurers. Our responsibility today is not to allow the civil conflict that is being pushed against people by the ambition of one political force that is “to rip” the heart out of the people's breasts just to gain the authority that it has set itself. Dear National Deputies! I would like to emphasize once again the obvious fact that the Party of Regions that won the parliamentary elections, which formed with the Socialists and Communists, the parliamentary majority, legally seeks only one thing: the implementation of world practice. And it, this practice, dictates generally pleasant, in all democratic countries, political steps. The first step is to form a parliamentary majority of the coalition government, which will for the first time reflect the interests of most Ukrainian people. Such logic has never been denied by anyone in any democratic country in the world, and so should we. If we recognize that we live in a free democratic country, where there is a law that is the basic standard of our being, the Constitution. It's a paradox that at the age of 15 of our independence, I have to repeat such obvious truths. It is not normal when, before the day of our greatest national celebration, we must remind one another that we must live by the Constitution. I believe in the political maturity of Ukrainian statesmen. I am convinced that all of us, together with the President of our nation, will do everything we can to stabilize the calm and normal rhythm of our country's life. Because we're all interested in stopping the price of gas, electricity, passing through civil transport to raise the standard of living of the people. We are interested in halting the looting of state property, which is done by adept deeds, using government incompetence and general chaos in public authorities. We must insulate the questionable schemes that are being carried out on behalf of the State. We must break the back of corruption. To do this, we need to form a new government. I believe that we will do this in the very next few days, because most of the Supreme Council belong to the reasonable forces, the wise politicians, who always put the interests of the state and the people above any other interests. I would like to emphasize that the anti-crisis coalition is ready for a constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u6	We are ready to cooperate with every politician who really wants to defend the interests of the people. We reaffirm our readiness to expand the anti-crisis coalition through its integration with our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In these moments, Ukraine and the whole world, citizens of Ukraine and the international community will listen to our voices, giving a fair assessment of our actions and our position. We have a chance to enter history as politicians who have maintained stability, peace, civil peace in the centre of Europe, multiplied economic gains and showed the people the way to well-being, as the great John Franco wrote: “Then people will go all the way, as we pierce it and level it everywhere.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u7	I am recorded for Rephat Chubarov, and he gives the word to Roman the Immortal. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u8	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Obviously, the logic of the events that are taking place in this room calls for a serious dialogue. A dialogue that would ensure the rights and the ability to work most and no less, the right to criticize and be heard by opposition. For me, the biggest wound is this flag that's in the hall. And in fact, we all have to do what we have to do to ensure that those who place this flag honorably lift it on a mast over the Supreme Council. Because we are all Ukrainian citizens, we are all Ukrainian parliamentarians. Obviously, the logic of the events, in which the 186 people's deputies were not initially taken into account, is now not taking into account the position of the 129 people's deputies, is unacceptable, in principle, when we went to parliamentary form of government. The Ukrainian Constitution has changed, ladies and gentlemen. Parliament is responsible for the authority, with political powers. As far as they can find a dialogue among themselves, agree on and right to implement these powers, and the right to criticize and demand the rights of the opposition depends on how Ukrainian citizens appreciate our activities. Of course, “Our Ukraine” stood up for and advocates the work of Parliament, the stability of power, the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. It pains us that constitutional reform has not been completed, that we have not yet carried out the necessary reforms of the security system, the rule of law, the unsecured implementation of the 2004 election course, in the 2006 elections. We see all these difficulties and realize that without a close dialogue of all political forces, it will be very difficult for us to move forward. This difficulty is that at this point we do not yet have a clear framework for government activity and we do not see what rights the opposition must have. In our opinion, as most should think about the right opposition, the opposition should think about the rights and the ability to implement its program by the majority. Dear colleagues, we're open to dialogue, we're ready to have a dialogue, and we're ready to think about how to solve the original problem that worries Ukrainians -- that Dnipro should become a united river of Ukraine, not a splinter. Dear colleagues, two years ago Ukraine went on to undertake serious political reforms. But let's see what decisions are made today on one side of Dniper and on the other side of Dniper. Let's see how the activities of the political forces have led to their beginning to involve society in the process of solving problems in the Supreme Council Hall. Dear colleagues, after the election, either the results of the election should be recognized and done by this will of the people, or registered in their own incompetence. [[Applause]] So not the street that politicians today appeal to can solve the fate of Ukraine, it's the second problem that hurts me and our Ukraine is in pain, on the one hand of the Supreme Council -- one political power, the other on the other side of the Supreme Council -- another political power. It is our problem to be honored by political forces to invite people to work for their own good, to the welfare of their families. If we don't understand it, it means we can't solve the problems that Ukrainian citizens have put on us. And then, if you'll excuse me, then it's included in the force of 106 articles of the Constitution. And under this damoclus sword, we have an obligation to agree, to answer all questions. And it is not a problem who will, in which position, the problem is whether Ukraine will confirm its course externally and internally, or whether it will return the globe, which means that Ukraine will be ashamed, both in front of its people and in front of the world in general. That's why I wish you a round table of success -- another chance that the President is giving us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, I am far from wanting to comment on any statement, but it seems to me that we have a good draft of the Opposition Act in our work, which should be expedited to consider and, nevertheless, accept it in the Supreme Council, because it was written by a political force that was preparing for opposition, and it was written for itself. I think it'll be a useful document, of course. And another nuance. In the Supreme Council, I think the division of opposition and most, well, not what should not be, but this should not be a clearly expressed position as it is between, let's say, political power and power, especially executive power, as it is done throughout the world. We've divided all the committees on a proportional basis, in good conscience. And I also share Roman Petrovich's opinion that this painting here should not be here, that there should be deputies sitting here and working. They have all the power, their ability, just in Parliament, as committee staff. Committee representatives, committee heads, deputies, secretaries and so on. But it's in the working order that we're going to look at and take down this problem, I'm sure of it. I say that because there are representatives of the faction “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko” if any of them want to speak, except for Vladimir Alexandrovich, because he is always ready, I understand. Therefore, please identify yourself if necessary. Don't you want to? Well, then, please, from the Communists, who wants to speak? Please. This is Peter Simonenko. That's why I'm announcing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I believe that the proposal to convene a round table should not once again bury the subject of discussion and the depth of the processes that are taking place in our society in view of the dissatisfaction of our constituents as a whole with the organization of power and life in our country. I believe that the round table should not be the mechanism that will release couples, but it would not force the power to address the problems that our voters are concerned about. I am also convinced that the round table should not be merely about the distribution of portfolios, portfolios and the consideration of these issues. It must be the subject of a very serious and deep discussion, with the participation of all political forces, public movements, who are now interested in dealing with these issues in a concrete manner. I would therefore consider it possible to invite the organizers of the round table today to prepare concrete proposals so that we can take a deep look at the implementation of concrete plans after the start of the reforms in Ukraine, especially since 2004. Because in 2004, many people's minds are transformed into a year of power-building and power-responsibility for what is happening in our country. I am convinced that the round table should enable us to take a deep look at the situation from the perspective of the various social sectors of our society and their interests, and our fine veterans, the participants in the Great Homeland War, our young people, the workers and the unemployed, the intellectuals, those who today, for various reasons, are being challenged by the current power. The round table, in my view, should provide an opportunity to take a deep look at the situation in terms of the protection of national and national interests. In the end, with the participation of all politicians, the round table must respond to the very serious, profound transformations that have taken place, not in terms of the transfer of property, but in terms of changing living conditions and living standards of our citizens. The round table should wait for us to consider issues of national, energy, food security, mechanisms and ways to address them, we must, in the end, answer questions: our country will go, and move to NATO, or our country will be an off-block state, we must answer many questions today: how energy security will be addressed, in conjunction with our neighbours, or so on, our natural and those now created. I am also convinced that the consideration of the issues proposed for discussion at the round table should, above all, contribute to a critical analysis of the concepts of economic, political and social reforms that have been undertaken over the years of independence in Ukraine. On the round table, I propose to consider the mechanisms and ways to resolve the contradictions that have divided our society, I mean, by language, cultural, ethnic, interfaith and other problems. Without answering these questions, this round table would not be effective, in fact, simply becoming another event. And, of course, speaking of the round table in terms of resolving these contradictions, I would suggest that the round table should be initiated, and the President signed this decree to hold a number of referendums, on which the people of Ukraine today must express their views and remove the contradictions used by politicians to impose particular sentiments in society. I am also convinced that the round table should address the geopolitical and strategic interests of Ukraine. These are the problems of the single economic space, the NATO problem, the WTO problem in terms of national interests, the protection of our interests in the European and world community. But most importantly, our round table has to answer questions: why does power not solve the problems that the people of Ukraine are concerned about, why power today is not involved in those processes whose deepening today is a disaster for many -- the problem of unemployment, the problem of many going outside Ukraine to find a piece of bread, today's problem for a mother who is raising a child and raising our future in general in terms of the protection of the gene pool and the development of our national culture and science. All these issues have been identified, in my view, by the inefficiency and unpredictability of the so-called economic, political and social reforms of the current regime and course. I therefore believe that this round table will only be effective if it answers all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u11	From the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is who will act? Oh, no? There are no wanters. Is it? Will you be performing? No, it's not. Is there a socialist faction? Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u12	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the situation in Ukraine is really difficult. And the next time we repeat the words of Taras Shevchenk: “Ukraine has gone to the very country”, but we understand that this is probably not the last place. But let's think about one thing. We fight all the time and the world lives. And that's a very big difference. A normal civilized world lives, it doesn't fight, it works, it creates wealth materially, spiritually, and we with you, what do we do? What are we doing? What we created in Ukraine. We, I'm talking about power in general, all branches of power. What did we do? We've created a situation in the country that, well, maybe somewhere on the verge of disaster. And it's not intimidation, it really is. And apparently it's time to stop. The time has come today, first and foremost, to realize that if we involve Ukraine in a struggle, there will be no interpretation of it, for we can fight to a limit, and when it comes to an end, we must keep our minds to ourselves. And this idea of a round table is the idea that is dictated today by Ukraine and the Ukrainian mind policy. Is it enough for us to settle the situation in Ukraine, to get out of it with honor? I think that's enough. The Ukrainian people are wise, and politicians are mainly gathered here, who know how to work, what to do, so that human life doesn't look like the kind of hell that the Ukrainian people are in for 15 years and they don't find a way out of it. Round table. Which should be the idea of a round table. The idea of the round table should be reconciliation in Ukraine, political reconciliation and simply reconciliation between the left and the right. A reconciliation between all parts of Ukraine. The reconciliation, after all, between each of us in this room. Are we ready for this? I think in general we can say we're ready. And even though there is a situation of anger in this room, a situation that leads to the dissolution of the Supreme Council, we still have a critical limit. And this critical limit dictates to us one thing, we have to sit down and agree on how to build smart policies, good policies, policies that enable people to work, earn and live normally as people all over the world live. I don't think it's right for me to say that this opportunity is given to us by the President. This opportunity gives us the Ukrainian people, this opportunity gives us a mind that has not yet been extinguished in our people. And here I think we all have to make an effort to do that, and the President, and the MPs, and the political parties that are represented in Parliament and not represented in order to agree on one thing. Today we must end the war in the hands of the authorities, we must create a normal government today and entrust this government to build Ukraine with us, along with the entire Ukrainian people, whom we have been waiting for for the same 15 years, and which the Ukrainian people have suffered for centuries. What should be the object of this round table? I think, really, there shouldn't be a division of positions here, there must be another approach. One approach is to recognize the results of the elections that have taken place and based on these results to build power in Ukraine, and it's not going to work. For the idea, the President thanks, but I think we'll finally thank him when he understands and supports this choice of the Ukrainian people. In other words, I don't think it can be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u13	We have concluded our discussion or statements with reasons, or with regard to the situation. I understand perfectly that everyone agrees with the idea of having a round table, and we'll do it tomorrow. Of course, a round table can't solve all the problems mentioned here, because it's not his function. If this round table had been able to arrange for the concerted work of various political powers in Parliament, that would have been a huge success. And then we have to deal with all the problems that the authorities in Ukraine are primarily responsible for, all of them, including, perhaps decisively, the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's get ready for this. The State Building Committee is now introducing a draft decision repealing the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the resignation of the Prime Minister as members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to explain the point of this document when we were talking about the need for a round table, and I asked our colleagues to see how a gesture could be made for the President's meeting. To show that we're ready to cooperate, that we're not confrontational, that we're doing what he wants us to do. Colleagues were sent out, referring to the President's appeal to the Supreme Council to cancel the Supreme Council's decree of January. It's easier to say that because the faction that I was in at the time didn't vote in favour of resigning the Cabinet of Ministers, because it's not a smart thing, I mean, not a good thing for Ukraine, but that's what happened, I think you can look at it, but first you have to put it into the order of the day. Let's turn it on, and then we'll talk about it. Who's in charge of putting it in order of the day, please? [[16:35:04]] For 239. Decision taken. Please give the committee's head, Mr. Vladimir Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee discussed the Presidential Appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 12 January 2006 on the lifting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 10 January 2006 No. 3295 on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by which the National Deputys of Ukraine 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine assessed the activities of the Government, with reference to section 1, paragraph 12, of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out their duties before the start of the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This decision was taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in violation of the requirements of articles 6, 8. 19, 85, 87, 115, Constitution of Ukraine. According to article 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine, legal acts are declared unconstitutional if they have been violated by the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee decided to accept the proposal made by the President of Ukraine in his address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 January 2006 and to repeal the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 10 January of 3295 on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as it did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u15	Is there a question for Vladimir Vasilovich? Please sign up for a question of five minutes. Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u16	I'm asking you to pass the word to Volza.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u17	Please, Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u18	Volodymyr Vasilovich, please tell me if it was discussed at the committee meeting that some of our ministers were sent two and three times. In addition to that resignation, ministers were sent two and three times. Whether or not to ask these questions in order to cancel the expulsion order and the ministers by two or three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u19	We planned for tomorrow, this issue will be considered at a meeting of the Committee and we will make proposals to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u20	Thank you. Onichek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u21	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, would you please tell us whether you have received the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which are required to consider such documents? And if you have, introduce us to him. That's the first question. And the second. Please tell me, do you not see any logical legal connection to the draft decree that we are voting and the relevant procedures related to the interpretation of the article of the Constitution, which determines the order, in particular, the termination, the early termination of powers in the event of the resignation of the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u22	First question. In our statement, the President has sufficiently substantiated all the articles of the Constitution. There is a very large legal service. Therefore, we have taken the core document of the President as a basis and are proposing to support it. As for this Supreme Council decision, anything could be thought of, and the Committee also raised these issues. So, who has a fantasy, let's keep thinking. But if the Supreme Council has made a mistake, let's correct it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u23	Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u24	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, you know how much I respect you as a person, we've known you for a long time. So I ask you not to take sides with me. Doesn't it look like we're already doing some kind of clown thing? This room earlier, with previous calls, made very many decisions that today could have been based on what they said were anti-constitutional, for our colleagues who were working to fix them now. I'm very afraid, Vladimir Vasilovich, that your coalition partners will ask you tomorrow to illegally return to them, including the fairgrounds and the Ukrainian C.C. Company. And then you vote for it. Don't you think I'm sorry for that? I'm very sorry that both our chairman and other experienced lawyers are going to this clown. It's really a clown!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u25	Thank you. I have a lot of respect for you, too, and I can tell you all over the hall. But your representative, an honorary representative of a party that we respect, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, if you think he's making a proposal for a clown, can't do that, is the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u26	Please don't argue. The King.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u27	I'm asking you to pass on the word of Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u28	Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u29	Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich, I fully agree with you when you responded to Onischuk's colleague, that no scientific and scientific conclusion is necessary here. The whole country can see how tall and scientific and the expert conclusion of this decision is. I'll have one request for both of you and for you, Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich. I shall order to vote in two stages, as required by the Rules. First, vote as a basis. Then, in furtherance of the work, to include the cancellation of the error not only of the previous summons but also of the deputies of the 1998-2002 caedence, to repeal the Order on the Sending of the Yushchenka Government. And so we will correct all the mistakes made by the Supreme Council. And so we don't have to elect a new prime minister, because we have two in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u30	Obviously, I was concerned, and I am pleased to say that I did not vote in favour of the ruling and for the ruling that you mentioned about the resignation of Prime Minister Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk. But the point is that this decision was voted to uphold the rules of the Constitution, and this one was unfulfilled. So we need to be clean, clean, and, let's say, Parliamentary conduct in this respect. And in this respect, the President has expressed his thoughts, and I'll remind you that the committee's proposal is quite right: to respond accordingly. Please take your seats. Is there a representative of President Yuri Bogdanovich? Bogdanovich, I said it right this time because I'm wrong all the time. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u31	Thank you so much, Alexander Alexanderovich, for agreeing to give me my word. In general, our vocation, well, just generates a whole cluster of very strange procedures. In particular, it seems today that the president's initiative is being considered, but he is being reported by no representative of the president, nor by a person authorized by the president, but by a completely different national MP. Once again, if we are referring to the President's initiative, please be kind enough to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the rules of procedure. Now a little bit of history, I want to remind you that on January 10th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had indeed violated a series of provisions valid at the time of the drafting of the Constitution. And that group of factions who then voted in favour of the resignation of the government of Yehanurova even received a corresponding name in the people for the respective “soil” leaders. But first I'm going to stop at the legal preconditions of what's now being proposed, and then briefly at the political. So I would like to point out that the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 19, is acting on the basis, within the framework and manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, which is valid at the time when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in force. And that is if today the Supreme Council votes for this decision, by the way, with what motivation? In connection with the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine That's the second time she's violated the Constitution of Ukraine. Because since January 10th, the Constitution has changed. And the fact that January 10 was unconstitutional, the current constitution is consistent. And that's actually what was the basis for the president's address at the time. The Supreme Council then went into the euphoria of constitutional reform and applied norms. That came into effect only after the opening of our vocation at the end of May of this year. And it didn't work in January. Today, however, they work. What legal consequences could be the adoption of this decree? And the Supreme Council, in adopting this decree, should make changes to a number of its rulings, which it adopted in connection with what was called the respective officials of the ‘executors of duties’, because if we cancel this decision, there is no reason to call them performing duties. Where is the proposal to amend these regulations? And finally, last but not least, political considerations. You know, it's all a political game. I understand the initiators of this. They hope that the President will have another reason to dissolve the Supreme Council. Well, I'll calm you down: the Supreme Council, which has allowed the violation of the Constitution, has already been dissolved. This is the fourth call of the Supreme Council. I call on the Supreme Council: let's not produce nonsense or turn plenary meetings into clowns, indeed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u32	Is there a need to discuss the subject? There's no need. That's why I'm here. Are they desirable? Please sign in. Five minutes. All right, 10 minutes, please. Borszewski. I gave up my word. Volga, please. Please, Volga, word. You're handing him over?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u33	Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u34	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u35	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. I am now addressing all the national MPs: the honourable people's deputies, indeed, the Constitution we have alone, and Ukraine we have one, and the laws we adopt must be in accordance with the Constitution, including the Supreme Council's rulings. If, in fact, the Supreme Council had passed away, it had made a mistake that was not dissolved because it had not dissolved itself, but had completed its cadence. And in order for us not to have a legal coalition, we really need to support the proposed decision by the committee right now to settle this issue, because, in fact, we can't send the government out twice. He made his mandate, but that decision, once again, has a power over the government, not adopted in accordance with the Constitution. And that's why we don't need this rhetoric and polemization, we need to make a consolidated decision, we need to support the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u36	Welder. Cook, I've announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u37	Dear Alexander Alexander, I appeal to you now, because somehow you begin your second term as Head of the Supreme Council, just with some quite, well, gently speaking, strange decisions to stand by, I would really like to draw your attention to this. It'll be, it'll be your signature. Do you understand? Do you not realize that this decree is completely stupid, that it has absolutely no legal consequences? Because even in the event that the initiators think that in such a case, some kind of mythical right of the President to dissolve the Supreme Council is eliminated. To prove the disadvantage of this decision, I also draw attention to the fact that two ministers have also been released, and in the case of the incomplete composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, that is also the basis. Do you understand? So you don't have to do things that really cause, well, regit in society. I'm drawing your attention, Alexander Alexandrovich, you don't have to do this. There's no basis for that. And here we need to understand that, and we don't need the Supreme Council of Ukraine to go fooling around with your leadership. So I would still like to take this issue off the table and put the Supreme Council of Ukraine back on track.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u38	Please, Kuzmenko has a word, because Boguslayev is gone. Kuzmenko, a faction of socialists. Please, if you can speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u39	Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Zaporozhye I would like first of all to address Mr. Zvaric, colleague of Zvaric and some deputies from the faction “Our Ukraine”. How should we disrespect the President of Ukraine, how for a specific political purpose should we ignore the image of the President in order to say that it is a stupid decision to execute the President's letter? It's, I don't know, if the President hears it, you'll lose a lot of it. I would also like to think that we were on the committee today, really, looking at this issue and there were two points of view. One point of view is to extend as long as possible the procedure for implementing the President's request and this point of view, surprisingly, is the President's party, where the President is an honorable head. And the second point of view is, if there's such a possibility, in the strictest possible terms to meet the President's request and allow, by the way, today's government to feel like a government that legally gave power as a full government at the time of May 25. I would also like to say that the President, despite all the arguments that “Our Ukraine” is trying to make, has not withdrawn his letter. So he remained at his point of view, he remained confident that this decision must be reversed. And if the Supreme Council meets the President's request today, in my opinion, we should make this decision by consensus, because it is difficult for me to imagine that the faction “Our Ukraine” should vote against the President's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u40	Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, Your Honor. I did not ask the rapporteur by chance whether he had a committee to conclude on the draft decision, the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office, which, according to the rules and internal procedure of Parliament, was mandatory when considering legislative initiatives. Such a document as this could be drawn from the speech by the distinguished Vladimir Vasilovich is not, it is not by chance. Because scientific expertise simply, perhaps out of its own scientific shame, could not conclude that. That's the first thing. The second circumstance, I think, was necessary today for the committee to make this decision, and also to offer us a number of other draft regulations that would cancel a number of recent parliamentary acts that were adopted, particularly yesterday, where the Constitution was interpreted. And we understand very well that Parliament does not have such powers, it is the competence of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and a number of other decisions that have been taken, unfortunately, in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Under such conditions, it may have been reasonable to base a parliamentary approach that would invalidate all acts that he felt were in violation of the Constitution. Another circumstance, my fellow Members, I would like to point out to you that the President has not addressed the Supreme Council of today's call. Therefore, the question arises whether the Supreme Council has at all the right to base its current decision on a document, a corresponding initiative that was addressed to the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call. To emphasize this, we know what order, particularly the withdrawal of acts, including those of the legislative initiative in Parliament. And we know very well that they are failing to take on the powers of the new Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, as a conclusion, I would very much like to see us stop adopting acts in the Supreme Council that bring doubtful legal nature. Because we're only putting the legal situation in such an unfavourable position for the Supreme Council, and in the absence of the Constitutional Court, which. We're just setting precedents for the formation of the wrong field of the Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u42	Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u43	Alexander Stoyan. Party of the “Regions” faction. Dear colleagues! We know from history that, even after death, they rehabilitate politicians, people who have become heroes of Ukraine, and here a living government. The government, as the president said, worked very well — the best government. The government that was illegally retired and the bad Supreme Council of the 4th vocation, we MPs, as Stoyan I take the responsibility that we voted in favour of resigning this government, I owe it to this government. [[Applause]] I ask you to rehabilitate this government, please let it work. Moreover, your colleagues, you know that even now Yehanurov said that we are not “in.o.”, but we are the government, we prime minister, well, we have immediately resigned legally in connection with the new Supreme Council, so let the prime ministers, ministers, write in the work book that they were heroes of Ukraine for this time. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u44	Please, Gnutenko, please. I'm asking for less passion in the argument, because that's it. Please, I said Ignatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u45	I give the floor to the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u46	Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u47	Thank you very much for being able to complete your argument. I would like to stress once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should act in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine. That decision, which, by the way, did not actually take effect because the government had been successfully retired on January 10th, just as a colleague of Stoyan stressed, the best government in the history of an independent Ukraine has been operating so far, that means that the legal effect and the decision did not have, with the exception of the texts of individual Supreme Council decrees, where the positions of government members were wrongly named. And so the logic, I want to emphasize again, would require changes there. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government of Yuri Yehanurov, in carrying out the Constitution, has given its mandate to the newly elected Supreme Council. What the initiator of this ruling wants to do now, I can't understand it, because the annulment of that decree will not change the legal fact that the government is resigning today, giving authority to the newly elected Supreme Council. [[I don't know who he is, by the way.]] I stress this formulation: the government is retired today, giving authority to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now the final remark on those who care so much about the president’s honor, however, does so very much in words and falsely. The President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, acts clearly and strictly, on the basis of, within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution. On January 12, when the Constitution was broken, he appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, when the Constitution changed, he did not ask to consider this appeal. Unfortunately, in some fellow national deputies, the reaction is about the same as in a well - known turtle, but it is no longer the fault of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u48	Please, Roman Zvaric has a replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like you not to worry about my status with the President. Let me decide this with the president myself. So be sure that I will always support the President of Ukraine. And by the way, if this decision is to testify to your desire to hold the President's position equally carefully, I welcome your intentions. But let us be serious people. So this decision, really, is ridiculous; it has absolutely no legal consequences; it can't be accepted; it makes our Parliament laugh again. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I urge you to take this decision off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u50	Stoyan's replica. And don't mention any more names, please. Since mine was mentioned, I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u51	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to tell a colleague who spoke for this, for one before this, that I didn't give a high assessment of the government and its work, that's what the President gave such an assessment. I have a slightly different estimate, the very free government, which has raised tariffs on housing services, prices, and much more, has not resolved social issues, but it's a different assessment. I want to say something else. Dear colleagues from “Our Ukraine” if the President wanted to withdraw this appeal, this submission, he would have done so, and if he had left him that address, that means he had a sense, he was still hoping that a wise Supreme Council would appear that would satisfy his request. Such a Supreme Council has emerged, and we grant his request! Then why are you attacking the President and the Secretariat? We're for you. We're with the President. I ask you to vote in favour of this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-25-m1.u52	Praise be to God, there are no names. That's why I don't give you another word for it, right? But I would like to sum up our discussion. Here are a few points that need to be taken into account. The initiators of this decision are the national deputies of Ribak, Ponomarenko, Lukyanov. The project is registered according to the Rules. The committee considered it, brought it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. The document is also registered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I mean, we're different about this document. For example, what impresses me is that one of the speakers here just confirmed once again the difference between the status of the government, which is in retirement and the status of the government, which has made its mandate. This is fundamentally important, and perhaps we should also go to the meeting, the wishes expressed in the President's letter. Well, there's one more thing. This is clearly what Mikola Vasilovich said when he said that the acts of validity were not lost. They are. I'm afraid the acts are out of order. Acts of validity are not lost in the same way that manuscripts do not burn. That's true. You know that well as a lawyer. So the likenesses of our work were. Recall the situation in Parliament’s first call. The decision to ban the Company has been made, and the second call has reviewed the decision. But we should not be guided in this case simply by the principle of analogy, because it is not enshrined in the Constitution. The point is that we do not make any unreasonable decision because there are different conclusions, different institutions, different institutions, but institutions that are required to do so. This is me addressing all of us, when it comes to statements or documents from our Legal Office, from the Constitutional Court, which we should create, we should draw conclusions and so on. So we're going to cancel those decisions of the Supreme Council that were unconstitutional at the time of its adoption, not the decision that is constitutional today. It cannot be constitutional because it was accepted in another legal situation. So I have every reason to put this project to a vote, and you both want to vote. Please. Here comes the vote. [[17:05:55]] For 239. Decision taken. You can do factions if there's an insistence. From the “Regions” of the Party, from the faction – 185, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 2, “SPU – 30, Communists – 20. Decision taken. I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., there'll be a Parliamentary meeting tomorrow.
