ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I don't see all the factions have arrived yet. They're probably having a discussion. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[10:02:00]] At this time, 344 national deputies have been registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council has been publicized. Dear colleagues! We have today, I remind you, on the June 14 calendar, and you know that today we have a unique day in the history of home football. Let us wish our collective success at the World Cup. [[Applause]] Today we have a lot of nouns. Let's all share our greetings today with the birthday of Stanislav Mikhailovich Arzvetin, Mikola Vladislavovich Zločevsky, Vladimir Ivanovich Levcun, Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov and Valerija Mikhailovich Suškević. Honourable National Deputies, June 9, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy, elected on March 26, 2006, with King Oleg Anatoliyovich on the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliovich Krályov, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine Kings Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u3	Congratulations, Oleg Anatolyovich. Yes, dear fellows, we now have 449 national deputies. There's only one unfilled vacation left. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of Part 3 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have on Wednesday up to 30 minutes to announce applications, messages and proposals. Since we didn't work with you on Tuesday, and Tuesday for such announcements is, as it were, the regular rule that the factions take the word, yesterday at the Conciliation Council at the temporary Presidium and faction leaders, we agreed to take these 30 minutes away from each faction and increase the Rules to 5 minutes. If there's no objection, I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in charge of making announcements today, offerings, statements to the factions for five minutes? There's an offer of 10 minutes. Let's meet for seven minutes. In order to give representatives five factions seven minutes, please vote. Turn on the "Council" system. Vote. [[10:06:30.]] For 413 national deputies. Decision taken. They'll be performing for seven minutes. From the procedure? Please sign up for five minutes of procedure. Yes, please explain. One minute from here. Alexandrovska. Prepare Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u4	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenka, Head of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u5	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a suggestion to you. Since seven numbers have been suspended at the request of three factions — “Our Ukraine”, BUTT and the Socialists — asking for time to form a coalition. Of course, there are different views in society, but there is a growing concern in society about the insolvency of certain political parties. I would like to ask for agreement then, and those who speak from these factions must then explain whether there has been a decision to form a coalition, how we can proceed then, or perhaps you need some help, something you can't, there, agree on, resolve some issues. Please tell me what you need to do. Because you are killing the people of Ukraine, you are not giving birth to anything until today. Maybe there's something you need to help with, so let's face it and say it. Well, at least here, say what you've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u7	Please, Pisarenko. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u8	Valerius Pisarenko, Block of Yulia Timoshenko Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u9	Dear friends, I think yesterday all the statements made by “Our Ukraine” show that the format of the negotiations has changed and that the leader of the Communists will already have to help the Party of Regions and “Our Ukraine” to create the majority. [[Applause]] And I'm sure they'll also be direct participants. I would like to state firmly on behalf of our bloc that we have no total coalition cooperation on such a venegratory scale where the Party of the Regions, “Our Ukraine” and some who have joined will not go. We remain outside these negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I remind you that football will begin at 4:00 p.m. Please, Mikola Sadowa, the Socialist faction. He's been followed by Volodymyr Plačko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u11	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u12	Please, it's Mr. Frost Alexander's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u13	Honorable deputies, colleagues, representatives of all factions! I understand that creating a coalition is a difficult topic for everyone. Everyone's negotiating. And let's not put pins on each other here. If there is room for compromise between factions, look for it. I think everyone will be able to express their thoughts on this subject during the talk. I don't think there's any point in showing a lot of joy here. It's like getting up in front of a football game, for example, when it's best to do it at 6:00 today. Let's see what will be the result, of course, of success, as well as of the coalition decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u14	Yes, please, Vladimir Oblaček, behind him, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u15	Please pass the word to the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u16	Alexander Dove's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, there has already been practice in the Supreme Council for not one year, when the factions that took the break have informed both the public and the Supreme Council after the break, in fact, for which they have gathered the outcome of these negotiations. Why is the Communist faction asking this question today? Because the three orange factions, in fact, do not solve the acute issues that have come before the people. They're dealing with portfolios. That's the problem. That's why, when you took it, the economy is going down today. In fact, I don't understand: what happened in Crimea with NATO? You've shut down the people's deputies from the opposition, and we want to know what you've done in the last two weeks. Because your negotiations have been going on for over a year and a half. How many people can you make fun of?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u18	Yes, Igor Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u19	Alexeev, the Communist faction. I want to go on with this. Indeed, all the questions that today, when MPs are on air, in the media, then people are calling, asking one question. When will the Supreme Council finally work? And we are already tired of answering these questions because, indeed, negotiations are ineffective, which have not led to any positive outcome. Therefore, I would really like to hear from the representatives of these forces today. assumed responsibility to the State, to the people for establishing a coalition. How did this process end today, and what are they going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we will now be speaking from factions, you will continue your communication. I'm addressing factions. Please register or make suggestions on which of the factions. The factions of regions, socialists, and communists filed such applications. I would like to ask the factions of the “Julia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” to apply for the performance. I remind you that we voted with you to 423 votes. Now, by the way, there are 446 national deputies registered in the hall. Because when we made the official registration, it was much less than that, we didn't make it. I'll remind you, it's a seven-minute performance. I give you my word, here are two applications from the “Ukrainen Regions”, so they will be performing for 4 and 3 minutes respectively. Hell, please, four minutes. And getting ready for Chetchev is three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u21	I'm asking you to make some changes. I've got three, and my colleague's four.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u22	Please. Then three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u23	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. The elections in Ukraine have ended. Various political forces have been defeated in various regions. A party of the regions of Ukraine in each area recognized their results and began consultations with all regional political forces. These processes were difficult, tense, but did not go beyond moral standards or beyond the law. In all areas except Dnepropetrovska. For almost three months in the largest area of the country, the Regional Council could not begin its work. The political confrontations were at the heart of events on 2 June, when former Dnepropetrov region lords, believing in their impunity, went to a power grab in the area. To that end, they turned the building into a “Brest Fortress” with a three-ring ring, using sketched, specially trained young men from a private security firm. Not only the local authorities, but also the law enforcement authorities, the special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs "Berkut" worked on the side of the pseudo-protectors, together they applied physical force to the Ukrainian people's deputies and to the deputies of the district from the Party of the Regions. As a result of these criminal acts, 15 national electorates were injured and injured by the organizers and perpetrators of this political provocation. The district prosecutor immediately assessed this political crime, calling it political terrorism, but he did not make a formal statement. So far, no investigations have been conducted on any incident: the illegal closure of an international airport, the illegal use of a private security agency, and, in fact, gang-forming, not the omission of law enforcement agencies in the beating of members of the public. What else must happen in the country in order for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to assume its responsibilities? Everyone's silent. The Party of the Regions strongly condemns actions aimed at destabilizing the situation in the Dnepropetrov region. We demand: First. Consider immediately the election of the leadership of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council to the plenary meeting. Second. To hear the acting heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Prosecutor. Third. The Party of the Regions, with a view to an objective assessment of the Dnepropetrovsk situation, is introducing a draft order for the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council. We state that the Party of the Regions will do its utmost to ensure that the laws of Ukraine are in force in the Dnepropetrov region, not the laws of the Swedes, the reapers and the political teenagers who organized the beating.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u24	Four minutes from the faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Chečetov conveys the word Azarov Mikoli Janović, please. Prepare the Frost of Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u25	Statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the formation of the parliamentary majority. More than two months have passed since the end of the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. More than enough time for the country's highest legislative body to work for the people to work for the State. However, the will of the millions of voters who had ordered the people to withdraw the country from the deep socio-economic crisis has not yet been implemented. The reason for this is a totally unreasonable delay in the formation of a parliamentary majority. Almost as soon as the results of the elections were announced, the Party of the Regions proposed that a broad coalition be established. This was dictated not only by the actual ratio of power in Parliament to the new convening, but also by the fact that today is not the time to demonstrate political ambitions. When the country is on the brink of disaster, leaders must sit at the negotiating table with all those who are willing to take responsibility for the country's fate. In the context of the existing realities that have divided Ukraine nearly half, the need for such an approach has been and remains clear to us. The Party of the Regions is confident that it is only on this basis that a stable parliamentary majority can be established as a guarantee of the formation of a highly professional and responsible Government. Only by moving in this direction can deep structural reforms be carried out quickly, capable of ensuring a tangible improvement in the well-being of society. International experts assess economic growth in Ukraine this year as the lowest among all countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The country's unwillingness to increase energy prices will lead to the closure of most industrial enterprises and to the reduction of the huge number of jobs. How can unsurpassed tariffs for heating housing and utilities be paid by potential unemployed pensioners? Mass summer vacations have begun, however, the increased price of passenger transport and price increases have made most families very problematic and all of this has only been the beginning of crisis events. In this situation, the Party of the Regions states that it knows how to get the country out of the crisis. Withdrawal from the party's ideological institutions with a view to establishing a national agreement in the name of the future country, in the name of the future democratic Ukraine. This is the future the Party of the Regions sees in a united European house. In this regard, we strongly support the State's course for Ukraine's European integration. We are equally confident that the linguistic and historical and cultural diversity of the country's regions is our common asset, capable of uniting rather than disuniting. Expressing its readiness to assume responsibility for the fate of Ukraine, the Party of the Regions calls upon the major political forces to begin negotiations on a broad democratic coalition that takes into account the interests and aspirations of all, without exception, our citizens. The Party of Regions is confident that our joint political will is the only way out of the crisis and the prosperity of the Ukrainian people in conditions of democracy and political stability.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u26	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. The word is given to Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, followed by Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues of the national MPs, citizens of Ukraine. Today the situation in our country is extremely difficult and, first of all, difficult economically. Our faction, its economic professionals, worked in the economy, prepared a statement that we're making on this subject, and it shows that there are many other worse numbers than those that are sad, but that are sounded by the government today. We are on the eve of a serious crisis, and we need to get out of the fact that it really exists. And we need to take measures that will not allow it to unfold in such a way that it will have irreversible consequences. Only by means of a clear, well - organized authority can this situation be straightened out. We can see that the process of creating a coalition as the source of this power has stalled unwarrantedly. 82 days has been spent in finding a compromise solution that will satisfy society and guarantee stable authority in Ukraine. Today, various political forces are trying to explain for their own benefit. I would like to touch on a few objective things that cannot leave us indifferent to the situation that has taken place. Today, the media are fully following the trend of our negotiating partners with “Our Ukraine” to make socialists guilty. That they are uncompromising, that they expose unrealistic conditions and so forth. I'd like to explain to the radio audience and the television audience, first of all, that we've been leading a series line from the very beginning towards creating a coalition of known principles, depending on the outcome of the election. And they counted with all the representatives of the political forces who participated in the negotiations a document of up to 26 numbers, so that on March 26 they would sign the treaty and make the institutions of power on the basis of it. Those who criticize us today have officially renounced such a format and said: “This is a distorted page, let us look for other principles, coming out of political conditions and political compromises.” We finally got to the situation as it is today, when the document is prepared and cannot be signed, because there are once again the same conditions that are not acceptable to the subjects of the negotiations. The point is that we don't agree that we can go back to the power system that was at Kuchma's. When a party with six percent trust in its stock actually exercised authority at all levels, but then there was another model of government. And when the proposal is made today, let's take the form of negotiations, get the heads of administration, some ministers, heads of committees, and so on. And we're going to give it all the right to do it directly to one man without the right to intervene in this distribution. Then there's a question, and who's going to be responsible for all of these things, how do we build the power that's responsible, and the coalition has to be responsible for these candidatures. We're definitely against it. But given that the problem is being presented today in this way, you see, especially, the Frost as the party head is putting his claims in the position of the Supreme Council head or what the party demands, I would like to say, we agree to lift this claim. But. [[Applause]] But with the entire distribution being made in proportion, starting with the deputy head of the administration and ending with all the ministers, the heads of the committees, the Attorney-General and other officials. I'm asking for your attention! Under other circumstances, we leave the right to choose freely. Yesterday we read the Prime Minister's statements, the other leaders of our Ukraine, that they are changing the form of negotiations. Please, we leave the right to choose just as you do, and if you answer that question today, our proposal is specific, then there is a subject for negotiation. Under other conditions, such an object does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the floor. Please. Who of “Our Ukraine”?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u29	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow MPs! You and I are witnesses that a dangerous situation has arisen in the state and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is practically at the border of national security today. You and I understand that rising tariffs from July 1st will be very painful for Ukrainian citizens and will send social tension. This is the first component of the crisis that's happening in the state. Second, it will definitely hit the domestic manufacturer and create new tens of thousands of unemployed in the chemical and metallurgical, energy industries. And thirdly, the orange team has shown its incompetence. In her struggle for her portfolio, she forgot about the authority that should serve the people of Ukraine. And so they've increased a lot in general the systemicity of the crisis. But something has to be done. And as I look for an answer to where to find that power in the Supreme Council, so that we can handle this crisis with you, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should take an example from the inhabitants of Theodosius, Alesta, Sudak, Portenid and other cities and villages of Crimea, who have demonstrated their civic position, have responded to the call of progressive forces and communists, and have warned the Nazi occupation of the state of Ukraine. The U.S. military left the territory of Ukraine. But this does not remove the responsibilities of those who brutally violate the Constitution and the laws, contrary to the will of the people, draw Ukraine to NATO. Who is turning our country into a smuggled Mecca for international arms dealers? We call on all the healthy forces in Parliament: firstly, not to give permission to conduct training at the hands of NATO member countries, firstly to consider the draft bill on Ukraine's non-block status; secondly, when considering the budget for 2007 to exclude the financing of any cooperation programmes with NATO, and the funds allocated to finance the State's social obligations to Ukrainian military personnel; and immediately to form a special investigation commission to investigate the feudosian events concerning the appointment, including Ambassador FRYN, as an adviser to the President of Ukraine, an incident involving the detention of a ship in Bosporus with the use of smuggled Ukrainian weapons. It's with the orange authorities, by the way, it happens when they trade weapons smuggled. Next. To relieve the Secretary of Defense of Grishenko, the foreign affairs of Tarasyuk, the justice of the Chief and other officials involved in the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The Attorney General's Office will file a criminal case based on the fact of the State's immediately and the smuggling of weapons. This is, by the way, a serious threat to the undermining of our authority not only in Europe but throughout the world. Next. The ruling authority in Ukraine since 2004 has failed to produce national priorities and has failed to overcome narrow party and business interests. Over the next few months, people are fed stories about an orange coalition. At this time, human rights are being violated, prices and tariffs are rising rapidly, the work of the legislative branch is blocked. So I am addressing the leaders of the political parties and the blocs that are represented in the Supreme Council to the national MPs with a proposal to unite and create an anti-crisis coalition primarily to resolve the first-ever issues that concern Ukrainian citizens today, domestic goods and national interests. To form it just so that we can solve the issues and leadership of the Supreme Council, the formation of committees. In our view, the primary anti - crisis measures that should unite us today should be such. In internal politics, I strongly believe that entrepreneurs should now support us as a whole the forces that say so. And we Communists are insisting that we eliminate today's value added tax and give oxygen to our domestic economy and start fighting corruption first. Next. Establish a moratorium on price increases and utility tariffs, and fighting the shadow economy will provide the source for us to introduce this moratorium. Implementation of a moratorium on land sales by 2015. Because today we need to take stock of the whole of the national economy and not allow the land to be privatized and the natural resources of our country. Next. In internal politics, there are also anti-crisis measures such as wage tariffs, the formation of a special Supreme Council delegation for the coordination of energy prices and tariffs. Authorized to conduct inter-parliamentary negotiations with the State Duma of Russia on joint activities on energy, including gas prices and other energy services. Respect for international standards for the protection of languages and cultures of peoples living in Ukraine and for the granting of appropriate status to the Russian language. In foreign policy. In our view, in order to form an anti-crisis coalition and unite progressive national MPs, we had to do the following. Adopting a law on non-block status and non-involvement of Ukraine into NATO will allow us to save and the costs will allow us to be an independent state today from external influences. Next. It's a priority in integration processes within the single economic space, the cooperativeness of independent states. This will give our domestic producers an opportunity to get markets today, to increase production volumes, to give jobs, to pay wages, and to pay taxes. In foreign policy, we need to address the issue of Ukraine's accession to the WTO only if we do so on the basis of national interests, taking into account all socio-economic benefits and risks. Not as this was done on the initiative of the oranges to bring together the previous Supreme Council, when they practically betrayed national interests and sold our economic space to those from abroad who began to dominate us in Ukraine when we had an artificial meat crisis, a gasoline crisis, a grain, including a gas crisis. I'm not talking about the devaluation of the bracelet, which led to the loss of millions. Thus, anti-crisis measures call for the responsible position of us national deputies. In my opinion, we should first consider the issue of the approval of state programmes and of the state sources of funding for this anti-crisis programme. With these thoughts, we call on all the national deputies to unite to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Who of “Our Ukraine”? Roman Petrovich Immortal and prepare for the representative of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u31	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Our position is that the Supreme Council Hall is not a place to discuss the formation of a coalition, because the new constitutional conditions provide for the seriousness of the coalition of a program. Of what are we convinced and confident? Whatever coalition is composed, it must implement the Constitution legislation of Ukraine – the European course, the course of economic reforms, the course of strengthening social guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, 82 days ago in Ukraine, the first truly democratic elections came to an end. The whole world has watched the various political forces fight among themselves. On March 26, we all proved, regardless of our different positions, that the whole world, that our country has really become irreversible to the course of democracy, freedom of speech, the rule of law, economic reform, the confirmation of the European course. For the first time, a conscious and unforgivable choice of the Ukrainian people has led to the Supreme Council of Politicians, various political platforms. And the same difference depends on us as the only course that the Ukrainian State will be conducting in the next five years. And this is, first of all, the rate of economic growth, this is a stable level of social growth, this is the stability of political life. For the first time, Ukraine was given a chance to pursue a stable internal policy for five years. What else is needed in order for the country to grow progressively? Further, it is only for politicians, their ability and talent to reach agreements on programs, positions, areas of responsibility and so on. Today we live, fellow believers, with you in entirely different political realities. Let us acknowledge honestly and frankly that we have taken a responsible step by changing the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is governed, not by the Bank’s telephone and not by Gruszewski’s distribution, but by arrangements within the framework of a coalition that will be made up of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to introduce this new European tradition. If someone thinks it's easy, then I can say that as a person who works in the Ukrainian Parliament for 12 years, it's very difficult. Believe me, it was easier to do what was done in Ukraine for 12 years because it was not necessary to negotiate with the politicians and political forces of various ideological platforms and views. This task has proved to be a very difficult test for all of us. Dear voters! We have 10 days left. We're going to give you the next test after we've aggrieved you with our programs. None of the parties took 51 percent. It's not a tragedy. But respectable voters, respectable colleagues, it's a very difficult task. I hold in my hands an information report on the results of the elections in the Czech Republic, where both political forces -- left and right -- received an equal number of mandates. Look at the economic forecast that's written here. Krone’s decline and economic crises are predicted, and corruption scandals in the country have begun. It's a democracy. It's a cleansing. So today's negotiating process is to clean up the bad and gain new meanings of Ukrainian democracy. [[Applause]] How can we reach this new meaning? Only by following a series of targeted steps, not by intimidating each other, but by seeking a complex compromise. There are no easy answers to difficult questions. We don't have to be happy with the fact that we're going to solve all the problems that we've accumulated at some point in time. This is the kind of coalition of democratic forces that “Our Ukraine” has proposed since the start of the electoral process. We firmly believed that our proposal based on the platform of truth was because we were speaking honestly about what complex reforms would have to be carried out in the Ukrainian State. It was on this platform that we were building a coalition agreement. Would any of you not agree that Ukraine is on the verge of the most complex transformations in the economy, in the social sphere, in politics?Oh, my God! Someone will say that these reforms will be sweet? No, it's not. These reforms will be complex, and so in order to be an irreversible course, so that no one has the right at the time of the test to slam the door, arrangements have to be secured by serious mechanisms and guarantees of joint work, shared responsibility for our activities. Our objectives in this are clear and simple: the new coalition agreement and the new coalition programme are primarily to be implemented and geared towards implementing Ukraine's European course and Euro-Atlantic integration. As a result of these transformations, we have to achieve a high level of competitive Ukrainian economy. The Ukrainian authorities must become transparent and accountable citizens. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, do you not know that by any arrangement the head of the district or district government is not accountable to anyone. That's why we said we need to complete political reform, based on the choice of citizens to form performances. And let the performances of any political force take on responsibility for the implementation of a course. Do we not see that the weakness of Ukrainian power is central to the fact that it combines the powers of local self - government and the powers of state executive power in the months? Dear colleagues, we have 10 days left with you. We choose not blackmail and ultimatum -- we choose compromise. Let's fight for this compromise, we'll achieve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u32	Thank you, Roman Petrovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko has a word from “The Block of Julia Timoshenko. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, people of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to congratulate everyone on the fact that our national football team will be playing with Spain today. And I want us all to wish our boys success. [[Applause]] I am convinced that they are doing a thousand times more for Ukraine today than all the presidents, the prime ministers, the national MPs in the crowd. Because they are, in fact, defending Ukraine, not dishonoring it, with no reservation to the whole world. And I can tell you that I firmly believe that our boys, in our Ukrainian collective, will not enter into a coalition agreement with the Spanish congregation and will not give up on the struggle that the Ukrainian state absolutely needs today. [[Applause]] Sadly, though, politicians display very different standards. And unfortunately, yesterday, the “Our Ukraine” Block took a decision, including at a faction meeting, to consult on the establishment of a coalition with the Party of the Region. I want to wish them success. And I can say that, in fact, today it becomes obvious, it's absolutely clear that this whole long, demeaning, corrupt negotiating orange process was an absolute broad for real intentions, real plans and real preferences. And that's why the goal was not to create a coalition, but rather to destroy and discredit the process that yesterday, the thirteenth number, 10 days before the time comes for the coalition at all to say: “Look, nothing came out of it. And let us now move on to a more compromise and understandable process of creating a coalition with the Party of Regions." I want to tell you that democracy ordered a long life without any kind of dynamics yesterday. And I'll tell you that there are other sign processes in Ukraine today. Because I used to drive past the president's house every day, and I saw that there, across from the President's house, there was this place broken down, where people came, where they stayed, waited for the president, gave him their requests. And this site lived all the way to yesterday. Yesterday this site was bulldozed off the face of the earth, planted trees there, and displayed today’s caravan around the site. I think they've sabred up so much democracy. And I'm pretty sure that the reason why we don't create an orange coalition, which is that it was declared, is because the speaker wasn't divided, the ioli-pali politics. So I'm going to tell you that this reason was an exclusive touch, it wasn't a real reason. And I'll tell you that on yesterday, on the last day, all the programming principles were agreed upon, all the positions were agreed upon, there was no dispute on the ground or on NATO or on the country's development. Wallets. So why would you advertise to the whole country what you are, not the portfolios? And today, I think the whole of Ukraine has heard that Alexander Frost and the Socialist Party want to tear the last blanket off of this nudity. And today, from this rostrum, Alexander Frost, this really great politician of Ukraine, has given up his position as speaker to show what all other politicians in our country are worth. And I assure you that this move of Frost and the Socialist Party, when it is for the development of democracy, for the development of Ukraine, in order not to betray millions of people, will not be the basis for creating a coalition. I assure you that today in the afternoon there will be other reasons, there will be other conditions and ultimatums that will still be at the heart of the creation of the coalition of “Our Ukraine” and the Party of Regions. And now I'm going to tell you what the people of Ukraine have hope for. And the hope is that not all will be betrayed. That's the first one. It is that under no circumstances will our political power in these venegratory coalitions – “N” or “N” or “N” under “N” or “N” under “N” under “N” or “N” under “N” under” conditions. We've had enough. We will do as we have promised. And if we said that we wouldn't connect with the Party of Regions, not because there's not enough nice people there, but because the principles aren't the same, we won't get together. And if we said that "Our Ukraine" has a plan to connect with the Party of Regions, today we see the result. The hope is that yesterday, when the faction “Our Ukraine” voted, two people were Katerinczuk and Knyazevich, who did not cast their votes for this disgrace. This means that the sprouts of honest politicians are in every political power. And that means that the people of Ukraine do not need to give up. We are with you, and victory will follow you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The factions of the faction are over. It's called Frost, please, one minute of replica. Turn on the Frost microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u35	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! But I was reminded twice of each other, so I had two minutes, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u36	With your experience, you get into one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u37	I mean, Julia Volodymyrna, football, and I'm kind of figuring it out, depending, of course, not on emotion, but there's a round ball there. Politics makes it different that she has a ball, but only inside it is a brick, and then it looks like it. So you always have to play in such a way that you don’t beat your leg and have a normal result. That's the first one. With regard to Roman Petrovich's replica. It seems to me that, as negotiators, you and I are only thinking about deepening reform, local self-government should work this year. 3207 must be passed the Act on Amendments to the Constitution. And powers should also be decided by reviewing tax legislation, budgetary legislation. If we solve only these three problems, we feel that the Supreme Council has justified its appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I can hear you and, believe me, I know what you want, but I emphasize, it's only called Frost because it's mentioned. He remembered the Immortal, and that's where they ended up. Dear colleagues, Catherinechuk can take the floor if he wants. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u39	I'd like to explain why I didn't support the application yesterday. The point is, I think the only alternative that can be today in the matter of coalition is an alternative to creating an exclusively orange coalition. I'm convinced that a coalition with the BET and the Socialists can lose individual politicians. But from the coalition with the Party of Regions, unfortunately, democratic processes are being lost, and democratic Ukraine is losing. This is my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, don't raise your hands, mention the factions. Please, Immortal, mention the position of the faction and the “Regions”. Immortal microphone, please. The faction’s position was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to clarify the decision of the bloc’s policy and the decision of the faction. First, the statement deals with consultation with all factions, with all the winners who have obtained mandates in the Supreme Council. This is the first time. Secondly, honourable colleagues, the faction's decision is to confirm the decision on the bloc's position. Confirmation of the position that it is necessary to consult with all the political forces in Parliament today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that three of the five speakers made a similar offer. Thus, it is a matter of holding prior consultations to determine who to negotiate with. One more moment. Dear colleagues, we have a simple alternative: either coalition or electoral frenzy. We are for the coalition because we are the political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u42	Please, Raisa Vasilovna from the faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u43	Raisa Bogatyreva, "Regions of Ukraine" faction. I want to speak to our constituents now. They heard statements from all the political forces that came to Parliament in March 2006. I believe that the Party of the Regions has remained consistent in its position by proposing a broad coalition. Today, we leave these proposals in force and are engaged in a negotiating process with all those who are represented in Parliament. But listening to the “slide” statements and indictments of some colleagues against others, I would like to remind our wise Ukrainian people that “God is not chosen, but fools are not prayed.” The broad coalition will be in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, you and I have implemented our decision to allow representatives of each faction to speak. Now, you and I were about to start implementing the agenda that you and I approved, and there's a first question that we have about the census and the knowledge of committees. But in accordance with Rule 27, paragraph 15 of the Rules, two factions, namely the factions of the Party of Regions and Communists, ask for a recess of 30 minutes. That's why there's a break until 11:30. The leaders of the faction and the members of the provisional Presidium please rise on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed to work. On behalf of the temporary Presidium, I apologize for taking the break, but I hope it went in favour of this break, and I'm going to keep you informed. The decision we made. And I think you'll support us. Before you know it, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, King Oleg Anatoliyovich, into the composition of the Party of the Regions' Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Council or the Semiconciliation Council, but before that, please, who has taken a break. Please, Simonenko for a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u46	Respectable colleagues, distinguished radicals, the faction suggested that a break should be made in order to clarify the agenda, the order of our work and the list of issues, their consistency, as should be considered. Because of our faction, the initiative was holy because we wanted to discuss at the Contingent Council the need to hear information from the Acting Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs on the events in Feodosia and trade arms. We also proposed the establishment of a special commission of inquiry and the consideration of vorposi, which is relevant to the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Constitution. But most importantly, I would like to reiterate once again that we will now make a decision to draw your attention, respected colleagues, to the fact that the President has virtually removed himself from the coordination of the political forces that have called for his election in Maidan. Second. Our Ukraine, the BUT and the socialists, I believe they are responsible for everything that is happening in the country today and for the actions of the President, including. Next. Yushchenko also rejected those who supported him. But the most terrible thing for our work today is that an orange coalition has not been formed, because the participants, namely our Ukraine, the BUT and the socialists, first, do not trust each other. Power to them is essentially the power to solve their problems, i.e. the problems of financial and political factions, the lack of staff at all public scale, and the interests of the clans and the distribution of portfolios. And, finally, I'd like to ask you. Support the proposal now made by the Chair on behalf of the Conciliation Council. And I want to go to the voters. Dear voters! Ladies and gentlemen, keep your mouths shut!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u47	Raisa Vasilivna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u48	Raisa Bogatyreva, faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! We took a break to discuss the issue on the Conciliation Council on changing the way issues were dealt with at today's planning meeting. We have made clear in our statement today that there is a very unsatisfactory situation in the preparation for winter, the lack of gas in gas storage facilities today, the lack of clear tariff policies today, the complete uncertainty about subsidies and subsidies for regions, as today the mayors of the largest cities are shouting, price increases, inflation understands how they will develop. All these issues must be addressed through issues that have recently been of great concern to society. These are questions about the Crimea, questions about Dnipropetrovsk. Our proposal is in the form of a draft regulation that we have registered and we propose to support today. I think these are the issues that concern our voters today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me now inform you what we have agreed on, members of the interim Presidency and faction leaders. By an absolute majority of the votes, four factions voted for it, we agreed that we would now be with you to implement the agenda that we approved with you on May 25, namely: we now came to the question of the Committees, the List, the Quantum Composition and the Affairs of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After we consider this issue of the agenda, we will advise you on how to proceed: whether to make changes to the agenda that we approved on May 25, because the next question after the Committees list is to form a coalition, or not to make a list of changes. As we vote, we will continue to do so. Therefore, we are considering the list, the number, and the subjects of knowledge of the Fifth Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have one draft decision, registration number 1005. The drafters of this bill are the Turkish and Tomenko National Deputies. Who would please report? Tomenko. Please prepare Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski with a report from the preparatory group on this issue. Please. Yeah, how many minutes do you have because you have 10? Three minutes. Please, three minutes. You can have five.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u50	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Our political power came out of the need to stop the debate on how many new committees in the Supreme Council need to be created. And I am absolutely convinced that during the electoral campaign that was recently completed, there was no national MP here who would say that the first thing when we come to Parliament is to increase the cost of keeping ourselves. I don't think there was anyone here who said we'd run out of cars and offices. And I don't think there were any people here who said that we were going to start hiring people's deputies and then think about people. So the very fact that we're discussing how much we need, 29.27, or 50 committees? There is a fact that demeans Parliament itself. You know, the Supreme Council started its work when it came to 19 committees. Now we have 24 committees and one special committee. We've worked in such a regime for a long time, and those MPs who have experienced Parliamentary work well know that this form is a fixed form, where a machine is prepared, where a system of relationships is built. Therefore, our political power believes it is necessary today to vote in favour of the same number of committees that worked in the Parliament of the Fourth Assembly. And how to get to work as quickly as possible, since today the committee's apparatus doesn't know how it's going to work. The MPs themselves don't know which committees they're supposed to sign up for. So we're actually stopping work in this mode. The second position is extremely important, and we're concerned that in the ideas that are coming out today, there's the idea of eliminating the board of pensioners, veterans, disabled people. We regard this as a contempt for both this category of people and the need to have a special institution to take care of it. We do not understand the idea of trying to separate the National Security and Defence Committee into two committees. Similarly, obviously, today we have a problem with national security and defence, and we still have two committees to take care of this problem. So once again, I wanted to point out that we and the fact that as soon as possible the apparatus would calm down the Supreme Council, and the national deputies knew what committees they were working on, they started working. And we recorded this discussion about the need to increase the number of committees. And once again, it means money, equipment, spending and everything. There are traditional standards that we have also passed on from previous activities, they are clear and obvious. These rules apply to the representation of deputies on each committee. These standards apply to the number of substitutes. We're not changing anything because good, established practice is a clue that we're going to work calmly and confidently. Request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Stay, Mikolo. Please have a question, please sign up. Please, five minutes. Please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u52	It's the right system. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we need to support the proposal made in the draft ruling and stop the discussion on the number of committees. We have to vote now. Because you can imagine. Tomorrow a coalition will be declared, the elected Head, the deputies, must make the decisions she has just spoken about, such as Raisa Vasilovna. The committees should consider these proposals and so forth. And for each faction, there's a problem -- where to put their deputies, where to recommend them. Because one thing is to divide by 27 committees, the other by 21, the third by 24. These are very specific things. And from the experience of previous parliaments, I want to say, we have to do this. Now vote the number. Put a dot on that. Subjects of knowledge can be considered tomorrow or so. But today it is necessary to set free the opportunity for faction leaders, to determine the fate of the deputies, to help them in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u53	I take it this is Alexander Alexandrovich's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u54	That wish was
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u55	Yeah. I'm not commenting. It's the only fragment I want to say. It's another hard thing I didn't say. For us to be members of the Preparatory Working Group who worked and discussed this document, it was clear that when we had 30 people, at the time we discussed the committees, we had 35 people or 36. There were specific national MPs who wanted to work on the new committees. I think it's a great respect for specific deputies to create new committees under them. I don't think we should start with Parliament to employ those people who want new committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u56	Yes, please, Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u57	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I support the proposal made today by colleagues Tomenko and others to keep us consistent. As a four-year-old member of the Supreme Council, I would like to say that we should be consistent because the previous Supreme Council has adopted the relevant Rules, has adopted the appropriate procedure. We've already worked and the mechanism, there's the Law and the Committees, there's an appropriate ministry that the committee is working with. And this will enable us to work faster, and with the executive power, to take on mutual responsibility, there are appropriate legislative documents that we need to consider in our second reading. And to look at it as quickly as possible, and I can say that these issues that we have today that are not settled will allow for those committees that are already determined to accept our clear work plan, to establish the agenda for the session and for the next session. That's why I'm backing this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u58	Thank you, we also support. Klukkowski, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u59	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I understand that we need to discuss the list of documents, the number of committees. But I would like to make it clear, as you propose to solve the problem of objects of knowledge? So you have the fourth paragraph of the draft decision saying: leave the objects of knowledge analogous to the same, and who did the previous list of subjects of committee knowledge be established? What normative act? I mean, I understand it's very interesting to share committees and it's very interesting to film populism because we're against the elimination of the Committee on Disability Issues, although the Committee on Social Policy is more concerned with disabled people and pensioners than the Committee on Disability Issues. I understand that you're against some committees under the MPs, I'm against that, too, but we forget that we have committees where there are twenty bills, there are committees where there are thousands of bills, as you're proposing to solve all this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u60	Yuri Bogdanovich, everything will be simple and beautiful. The point is that we have worked with you for four years within those committee powers and we have taken very many smart and sometimes unwise decisions and we have acted on the basis of the Supreme Council's orders, because you know that the previous Preparatory Group has been having discussions for several weeks in order to adopt such a document, it has not been accepted. We can take the previous path and spend months, for example, listening to the Ukrainian people, how many committees we have and how much wages we need. And if we're not capable of making such a fundamental decision, I don't think anyone needs that Parliament. So we suggest very simply, as always, we confirm, that the number of committees we've always left behind, the committees are working. And we are acting on those powers that are now established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we come to consensus that these powers need to be changed, we can bring this issue to the session room at any time and transfer, for example, the overloaded committees, where the list of bills is large, to another committee. It's in our capabilities. But to “hang up” the issue of not starting to work, we consider it wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u61	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to report to the subgroup coordinator. The preparatory group of the Klukkowski Jury Bogdanović. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I realize that everything will be beautiful and beautiful, in such a frivolous way we offer to start solving our problems. However, we have suggested that we approach this a little differently and that the previous composition of the Supreme Council has failed, let's be honest, failed, does not mean that the present composition of the Supreme Council is easily and beautifully refusing to take on this task. Of course, it's not an issue of foreign and domestic politics, it's an internal organization of the work of the Supreme Council. But we don’t even want to solve this; we want to live easy and beautiful. And now I want to talk about the summation of the activities of our subgroup, because the Preparatory Group has also failed to make a final decision on this issue. We came from the fact that the subject of committee knowledge was, in principle, more important than the name of the committee and even the number of committees. Because I want to tell you that there were committees that have been looking at several dozen bills throughout the mandate period, and there were committees that had over a thousand where they were profiled. Such a committee was only one, it was a Committee on Finance and Banking. And that's why we proposed to divide it by two, because the next committee to load it had only 500 bills -- twice as many. On the other hand, we proposed to release a committee on legal policy, which mainly dealt with personnel issues in the judiciary and to divide it into two: one on justice issues, and the other on constitutional and legal policy issues, to carry out an expertise on the drafts of the previous committee expertise on their conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, because no one had conducted such an expertise in the previous call. So, as you can see, we have come out of what are some of the tasks for the activities of the Supreme Council and to ensure its effectiveness. The present situation is like this. By order of the Chief of the Supreme Council of the previous vocation, the subjects of the Committees have been approved. I can't tell if that's an order today in a new call after a new committee list is approved. The question of analogy, as suggested in this draft decision, is not solved. So we cannot support this draft decision, unfortunately, the preparatory group has not passed its draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, three minutes of Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u64	Matvienkov, Mariupol. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. Question one. What are the proposals specifically made by your agreeing group, because it was created to work out and give us a concrete proposal? But so far, apart from criticizing the position or the decision we are asked to make, we cannot see or hear anything. This is the first moment. And second moment. Your attitude towards the Committee's position on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, when an attempt was made to remove and give up industrial policy to the Committee on Economics today, and to allocate entrepreneurship to a separate structure. To date, what is happening with the industrial group in our country is what is happening with the Ministry of Industrial Policy after its restructuring to date. This is the industry that is the backbone of the economy, which gives the bulk of the budget, so to speak, is out of control by the Supreme Council. Your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u65	I've already said that by reporting on behalf of the preparatory group, I can't propose a draft decision, because the preparatory group, not me personally and not the subgroup I've been coordinating, and in general the preparatory group has not been able to take any decisions on this issue. Perhaps the majority of the preparatory group decided to live easy and simple lives. As to the second question, my colleague Matvienkov, after we talked to you, I took your argument and so we changed both the name of the committee and the subject of knowledge, and so industrial policy there in that project that was being prepared by the subgroup is fully secured.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u66	Please, Bagasheva, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Gunny Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u68	Eugene the Gunner's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u69	Eugene Hoornik, “Our Ukraine” faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Before I give the word Yuri Bogdanovich, I want to address the presidency. Our Ukraine, first of all, I'm asking you to change the order of the recording so that there are representatives of each faction in the five, or where it's empty, where it's dense. As to the substance of the proposal. It was said that a coalition was impossible and impossible between the congregations of Ukraine and Spain. I'm saying that one possible point of the deal is to play by the rules of football. And here they want to propose to the chess board to play like Chapaev. And Yuri Bogdanovich, there's no other order here, maybe we should create a coalition first, and then talk about the number of committees. Not to associate the number of committees with the number of committees on district councils, the number of deputies on district councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u70	I know that before the elections, some were eager to link the results of the elections to the Supreme Council with the distribution of seats in the district and district councils. But luckily, that didn't go away. I believe that the list of committees and especially the subjects of their knowledge is an object of interest to the entire Supreme Council for those who want to work in it, not to live easily and beautifully. So I think there's an object here to think about. We want to live thoughtlessly, let's do what we have, if we want to do better, let's show that we can do better.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u71	Yes. Thank you. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for your statement on the subject. As long as the recording goes on, I'm going to say, at Eugene Gorenik's suggestion, the Presidium can't change anything, because that's the norm of the Rules. Everything is going as stated in the Rules. So it's not up to us to record yours. Yes. Dear colleagues, 34 national deputies were enrolled. If each of them comes out, multiply by 3 minutes how much time we're going to talk about. If you don't mind, let's take 15 minutes to talk. Is there no objection? Yes. Okay. Who in charge of taking 15 minutes to discuss it, please vote. [[12:09:49]] For 242 Decision taken. Yes, please, Cosub, three-minute faction of the Party of Regions, prepare for the King. On the board, please tell me who signed up. Passing the word? Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi. Cozub passed on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, and according to the Rules, you know, according to the Law “On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” this is the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we approve the quantitative composition and objects of the Committees of the Supreme Council and also, if you recall, the Rules of Procedure of Article 5 of the Committees Act require us to establish a quantitative composition, i.e. at the moment of creation, how much should there be in any other committee. And in the draft regulation, it's quite right to say the same number that was between 10 and 30, so as not to overload the committee's work. But I would like to draw your attention to the speech by your distinguished colleague Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, who is completely, 100 percent right when he says that we need to support the approach to committee formation on a pragmatic basis, without the inherent political power of demagogism and political cynicism. What's the pay for, what's the long-suffering people of Ukraine for, and what's the possibility of getting a committee to work? Let's face it, reality has changed. A new political atmosphere. It is an important task for us to carry out the task of constitutional reform. This task should be carried out including the area we are responsible for, the area of legislative security. We have on the threshold of forming a government. Why we certainly need to harmonize the efforts of the committees of the Supreme Council and the direction of the future government’s profile activity. I think it's pointless to talk about someone saving something or someone trying to get the people of Ukraine on something. And one more thing. I think that after the coalition is formed, when these wild dances are stopped around the power trough, when we finally get and see who and what it's responsible for, who took this responsibility, I didn't mean you, only after that can we go to the question essentially. So in that case, we can also look at how many committees there should be and what they should know about. This question must be brought to a broad discussion with a specific argument. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's too much, isn't it? We do have a problem. And rightly said colleague Klukkowski, there are committees that have little work done on the bill, are more, are impeccable. This is a question that needs to be addressed in a pragmatic and constructive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u73	Victor King, please, “Our Ukraine” faction, followed by Valeriy Suškević. Please give the word to the Immortal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u74	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues. We should not assume that our predecessors were a little less talented than we were. But let's look at the history of committee issues in the previous Supreme Council. Number and names have been confirmed. The competence of the committees was introduced by the authority of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Why? Because that's the answer to most of the questions, and that's the problem, which, for example, in the relationship between the two foreign affairs committees and European integration, has not been definitively resolved to date. So the problem even with the drafts of the proposed rulings is that it's wrong to keep the approved competence now because we have to discuss it. This is the first time. It's different. Let us look at the changed economic environment. For example, should regulatory policy be referred to the competence of the Committee on Economic Policy or Industrial Policy? Is there a problem? Yes. Next. It has been said that blasphemy is to cancel the Committee on Veterans. This committee is actually called, not a committee to ensure the legal activity of veterans, but a relief committee. As a result of the conflict between the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on the Rights of War veterans and the Work, most of the issues were never accepted because they were always at different positions. Next problem. Please note the practice of law enforcement committees and the fight against corruption and organized crime. How has the work of one committee and another been carried out, and does not it require a solution to the problem of unifying these committees? Next topic. Please tell me, what is the problem with the change in the Constitution? There is. So there must be a committee to deal with these problems. One more question. Remember, colleagues, how we agreed to appoint judges here forever. When they were sitting on the rostrum with hundreds of them, they didn't know that the people we voted for were in agreement. And now we're talking about what we have in the judicial system. I don't use the word we often use. Therefore, we should not take such approaches lightly. And another problem. We're all talking about reforming the system of executive power, delimiting the political functions, administrative functions, and demanding that every committee be a minister. Please tell the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time of appointment on Wednesday, usually the Committee meetings in foreign affairs and European integration, at which committee meeting will the Committee be held? Therefore, we should not take this lightly; it is a matter of serious questions. The technical problems depend on the coherence of the work of the Supreme Council. So we suggest that we address this issue after we consider the coalition. And please ask the Kyiv District Council how the eight committees created 19 or what good they did. I'm not saying that the Communist faction won't have a representative on every committee when they're 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u75	And you suggest 29, then you have. Please, Valeriy Suškević, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I went out to this rostrum to remind you that we have pensioners, veterans and invalids in front of whom you stood in the elections and talked about the social orientation of your actions, 14 million. I want to remind you that most of the letters among all the committees came to our Committee of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I want to remind you that there is no conflict between the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. By the way, call it a committee, you don't even call it a committee, then a committee for veterans, then a committee for disabled people, you call it the right committee, and get to know the things that this committee has done and how much it's worked on, and how much does it have to do with these problems. And I would ask that today your promises be kept before the 14 million pensioners, veterans and invalids. Today, look at the choice of cynicism. We destroy the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons and create new committees. Dear colleagues, today is a disgrace! Think what it sounds like right now is to destroy one committee and create new, very useful ones. [[This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure ……]] I'm not going to talk, maybe the committees, but destroy this. And who? Who comes out here to the rostrum and says that let's destroy this committee and create committees, five or seven more committees that are more appropriate? Is that okay? This is the first meeting of the Supreme Council starting with this? I would like to remind you that today the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko is already in possession of a package of bills on this committee. Today, I don't know who's been working, but to this day, there are some priority bills that will be submitted that are ready for registration on the issues of pensioners, veterans, invalids. I don't want to be specific right now, just a list of bills. They're ready for registration. And destroy this committee. Think about what you said two or three months ago, and think about what people who chose you are hearing today! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u77	Yes, please, Alexander Alexander Frost. Get ready for Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am five times in the debate on the creation of the Supreme Council committees, I would like to say that this topic does not require the kind of passion that unfolds here today. We can promise people that we're going to create such a committee and we're going to protect you, and we're actually going to do something the other way around. Now, I remember, in the '90s, they set up a committee not only on agrarian relations, but also on the village's Social Protection Committee. They destroyed the social sphere in the village. Today it is suggested that we divide the Defence and Security Committee. There's no more defense, no more security, let's create a committee. I don't think that's what we should do. And the argument that the Committee on Finance and Banking has considered a thousand bills is not a characteristic of committee activity, although it has to be given due - people have been working seriously, and this is a characteristic of the lack of well-considered economic policy in the state. Because instead of adopting legislation that is useful to society, we work in lobbying the interests of specific business, industrial and other corporate groups. Then there are a lot of problems that need to be solved at the legislative level. I'm convinced that we don't have to rush a number of committees, there's still a function of administration in the Supreme Council that needs a certain one. a certain ratio of number and to-do. I think over the previous four cadences we went to some optimal result, found this result -- 24 committees and committees. If necessary, then you can rename other functions, determine, adjust objects of knowledge. It's all in our hands. But today it is necessary, before the coalition is formed, to determine how leadership is determined, that the distribution of training, of qualifications, of the work of some or other deputies takes place now, and that we do not do all that later in one night. I think it's a perfectly logical proposition and Mikola Tomenko, reporting this document, I think I was also convincing in this argument. Let us do what is right in order for the Supreme Council to work effectively, and then we will consider that there are committees that need to be created, even though it does not have a broad subject, let us say, concern, for it must be, for example, family matters. There may be several legislative acts that have been adopted all the time, but that doesn't mean that MPs are walking, because they're working on other factions. Or, for example, culture and spirituality. We have cultural and spiritual problems here, but the committee needs to be set up anyway. So I would like us not to politicize this issue, support the proposal made in the draft document, vote on the number of committees and allow them to form them proportionally into factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Kalashnikov. Follow him, Baby. He gives the word to Azarov. Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u80	Azarov, faction of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Well, first of all, as a member of the preparatory group, I would like to say that the preparatory group has taken as the basis the draft structure of the committees and the subjects to be dealt with by those committees. And the distinguished Yuri Bogdanović, in fact, as a representative of the preparatory group, should report on the discussions that took place during the preparatory group meeting and on the arguments that have been made. Unfortunately, he didn't, and I have to make these arguments for him. But above all, the structure of the Supreme Council or committees should be consistent with the legislative realities of today, that is, the issues that are relevant and which the Supreme Council should focus on, rather than where Secretariat staff should sit, how many rooms should be in line with those committees. This is not about the number of committees, but about the importance and structure of the Supreme Council. I will bring only a few questions as proof of this. Well, first of all, there is constitutional reform in the country. Constitutional reform, which in fact has not been implemented through the adoption of laws that determine constitutional reform. The Preparatory Group therefore proposed the establishment of an ad hoc committee called the Constitutional and Legal Policy Committee. For example, I would like to ask Mr. Tomenko what he understands if he is so firm about maintaining the existing structure of the committees, on the question of, for example, State building, that he is investing in this concept. Or, for example, economic policies differ from industrial policies. Or what is “manage of the people’s economy” not an economic policy? I mean, it's quite obvious that the structure that we once had with you 10 years ago was said to be inconvenient with the reality of the day, and it has to be revised. This is now a critical issue, such as the budget committee. Should the fiscal committee consider tax policy issues or not? Can the budget be considered without tax policy issues? And so on, so I certainly support all those who believe that a coalition must now be formed, and then start to form committees and objects. But at the same time, I draw your attention to the importance and seriousness of this issue. And it must be resolved after a serious discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u81	Yes, Easy passes the word to the Turk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing those who have made such critical remarks about this decision. You know, according to the tradition of the Supreme Council, when there is a remark, people make their own decisions. When a decision is not given an alternative, it means that it is supported. So, dear colleagues, I understand that those factions that have failed to make a decision are supporting the implementation of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and that's objective. When you criticize, please make specific suggestions that are reflected in the Supreme Council in the form of a specific draft decision, that is for the future. Next, my dear colleagues, I'm not talking about emotion, which, in fact, we have to keep the electoral promises, that's what we've talked about here. I'd like to address your pragmatism, your esteemed colleagues. Believe in experience, any change in the number of committees, especially in terms of increasing numbers, will lead to the creation of new devices, will result in the full redistribution of all Supreme Council premises. Since even one committee will be created, it is still necessary to make a complete redistribution of the premises. So any change that's just going to be pulled out of the ceiling, that's not reflected in any of the positions that were being heard here, but just in the critical remarks, or just to demonstrate something new and interesting that has nothing to do with your pre-election promises. So, dear colleagues, you're just blocking the work of the Supreme Council, at least for a month, and no more. And all of your words, they're going to turn into simple demogogies. Hence, respectable colleagues, respected colleagues, are a very specific proposition. When you count the number of laws, it is also not objective, since, for example, the Budget Committee is considering one budget law for six months. But this law is worth hundreds of other bills. We certainly have the expectation that the number of lobbying laws will decrease significantly in this Supreme Council. And that's why, honourable colleagues, you're offered the following scheme of work. Support or base the project proposed by the decision, because there are no other alternative projects today. And as far as committee knowledge is concerned. Because the committee can be called different. And the knowledge of the committees is what shapes the course of his activity. And when it comes to committee knowledge, there's an opportunity tomorrow to refine your proposals, not in words, but specifically in the form of a draft change to a decision. And tomorrow we shall vote on this decree as a whole. It'll be the only constructive way. All the other questions, all the other suggestions, they'll just, believe me, delay from the beginning of the effective work of the Supreme Council. So I repeat my offer to everyone -- both the right and the left, and the centrifuges that are going on, the next. To support, i.e. to base the draft ruling, the single decision proposed by the Supreme Council, and tomorrow to work out concrete proposals for committee knowledge with a view to taking a decision and starting committee formation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u83	Yes. We're out of time. Please, the reporter and the co-rapporteur have the closing word. Please, Tomenko. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I would like us as a serious institution not to have a philosophical discussion. And I've heard a lot of speakers, these are famous Ukrainian philosophers, who have told us about what is national farming or non-national agriculture. I think we're going to involve the philosophers. If we need to change the name of the committee, but we're politicians and parliamentarians, and we need to think about what committees should consider, and how to keep our promises for the election, not debate which name is better. As soon as the committee gathers for the first time and takes a decision with all the participants and representatives of the faction that the name of the committee is inadequate in the 21st century, the committee will address the Supreme Council and we will change the name. This is the subject of a discussion in a session hall today that is not popular or antinational. So let us not hide behind these words but say the following: If there are people in Parliament who do not think their place without the headship of the committee, that is one thing. And if there's people who want to work, that's another thing. So our approach is very simple: we start working, and once the committees come together, they can redistribute their powers in subcommittees, we've never fully worked subcommittees, we can redistribute powers, and in the same committee of legal policy, where the committee can say absolutely calmly, we increase the scope of activity of such a subcommittee, we're reducing it. We can determine the compromises between the committees themselves, we've practiced in the previous call, and that's perfectly normal. Joint meetings of two committees, three committees, when there are adjacent questions. In short, if there is a desire to work, work should be done if there is no desire to work, then we will engage in philosophical discussions. We're against philosophical debates, let's vote this verdict, let's take this as a basis, I agree there's a discussion on the subject of objects of knowledge and how Alexander Valentinovich suggested tomorrow we return to the item on objects of knowledge. But everyone today should know that Parliament is starting to work in a stable regime within 24 committees and a special commission. And there will be no revolutions in the structure of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u85	Please, the keynote speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u86	Thank you. I would like to take into account that I have the right to a replica in addition to the speech, and I would like to add one minute. So when I reported from the rostrum, I counted honestly in my report on the understanding of the national deputies of Ukraine, who are especially those who are no longer the first to be called, who understand the difference between the name of the committee and the subject matter of the committee. And especially for those who know that no subcommittee can assume the responsibilities of the committee and cannot do what the committee has to do. So once again, I refer to the comments that have just been made on the basis of trying to live easy and easy. And so, once again, I want to emphasize, by answering Mikola Janovich Azarov, that I had no opportunity to report the decision of the Preparatory Group, because there was no such decision. What Mikola Janović said that the Preparatory Group had recommended was not true, since there is no final decision by the Preparatory Group on this matter. Finally, when we want the Supreme Council to work constructively, I would like to send those who agree to do so to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the First Session, one of the first issues, the resolution of the number of committees and their subjects of knowledge. If there wasn't a problem in every new vocation, if it wasn't important, then obviously the rules wouldn't require all of that, and then the Supreme Council would go through it easily and simply. I would like to point out once again that some committees in the past have been overloaded by professional bills rather than lobby bills. Another question is whether it was the initiative of the national MPs or the government, believe me, the government was on tax matters no less than the MPs. But nevertheless, let's decide, do we need a committee to deal with construction issues? And the question is, is construction the same thing as the Internet or is it different things? And can we talk about money and porridge in one committee? So for those who do not see the prospect of working on a reasonable distribution of powers and committees, I propose to wait until tomorrow. And since we did not have a separate decision to make, we did not make it from our faction, but once today we did, I promise to make a better decision by tomorrow, where these questions will be more wisely distributed. And where there will be opportunities to work, not to live easy and beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. It's literally two words. All those who took part in this discussion are right. The truth is, really, it's an extremely important question, it's an extremely painful question, it's an extremely worrisome question for each of us, because it's our employment. For each of us will not be a national deputy, but will be a member of the committee and thus be written in our workbook. And that's why I understand the care and concern about the list of committees. I think we're going to do the right thing with you if we take this decision as a basis right now, we're going to give you a deadline, we're going to shorten the deadline to tomorrow, because there's more than one day under the Rules. And tomorrow, we're going to consider with you the proposals that Turkinov and Klukkowski and other speakers and Immortal have suggested that paragraph four of this decision should be removed, and specifically the Supreme Council's decision to record the objects of the knowledge of each of the committees. So we're only going to vote on the basis. Please log in from the decision-making procedure. Please sign up. Five minutes for each faction to be able to speak. Please, Baranovsky, of course, Larin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Azar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u89	Please, it's Azarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, from the point of view of procedure, we must finish the work of the Preparatory Commission, draft a ruling from the Preparatory Commission, and only after that should we put it into the sessional voting room. A single project that was not agreed upon with other factions of Parliament should not be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u91	Sorry, Mr. Barani's Alexander Petrvoich, you were covered and I didn't see. Please, follow him, Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, when there's a reduction in the states, after this reduction, they immediately add a wing to the admin. That's how it is in practice. And here in this case, when the committee expansion goes on, it's the right thing to do is to say cars and everything else, and the people of the other side of us were waiting for us to go to the election. So there's a proposal, let's put it on the basis of a vote, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u93	Sergey Shevchuk, please. Behind him is Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u94	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I only want to make two arguments. First. During the second vocation, a decision was made on the establishment of a new committee, a committee on law enforcement, and law enforcement. This does not mean that if we take the decision now, it will be for five years. And secondly, I want to remind the audience that only a third of the deputies here have jobs, and two thirds of the new deputies don't even have places to sit, they don't have jobs, they don't have anywhere to take citizens. Therefore, we need to make this decision as soon as possible and allow the people’s deputies to carry out their civic duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u95	Mikola Sadowa, followed by Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u96	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Socialists support the bill. It needs to be taken as a basis today, and if someone has any changes, additions during this time period, we can work out and make adjustments by tomorrow. In fact, I support my colleagues in terms of workplaces, part of the deputies have no jobs, no cabinet, and no jobs. Let's do it in such a way that tomorrow we can start work in a way that pleases the national MP. And it's time to get behind the plow and wash this plow. Enough of the verbal and other contests that have already been held, let us be fruitful, friendly, to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u97	Alexander Moroz, followed by Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u98	I honestly didn't expect to fall again, that right would come to me, but I want to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u99	It's for the coalition to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u100	faction leaders and those who are discussing the subject of religion and so forth: You make sure today that from your faction in each committee there are at least two men or at least one, who will perform such a function, you know, a workhorse, for the committee works and the faction has a face when such enthusiasts as Taras Shevchenko said: “ Stupid people, they're pulling this job. If we are willing to offer these people, then we can stop at the right amount. Because you can put your cheeks on, say we've created committees, you've got a manager, you've got a state, you've got a machine, you've got a machine, you've got a machine, you've got everything else, and there's no meaning. We have to deal with it, deal with it in a substantive way, so that the MPs are oriented accordingly, that's the problem. Now we just have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u101	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u102	Boiler, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the floor to the National MP, Mathvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u103	Matvienko. Matvienko Anatolia microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u104	Matvienko, Our Ukraine, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor. Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you as the presidency that we have chosen, not to imitate the work, but to organize the work of the Supreme Council. Tell me, please, what is the logic of when a preparatory group is to consider all possible legislation on this issue, because there are delegated representatives of all factions and bring this matter up for consideration by the Supreme Council? Now you're proposing by imitating work, making a decision on the basis, it doesn't solve anything. So let's not create simulations, let's transfer this project to the preparatory group, and we'll work on a project that the preparatory group will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, unlike you, you've been imitating the work for 82 days, we're not imitating anything, we're doing the Rules, and we're directing the work of the Supreme Council. It's not a imitation. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that bill number 1005 was introduced by two national deputies who are members of the preparatory group. Third. The decision is not made by a preparatory group, not by a committee, not by an individual MP. The decision is taken by the Supreme Council. The discussion is over. With your permission, I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote. A replica? Anatoly Sergiyovich, you called me, I called you back, we exchanged lines and ended up there. That's it. You've separated a little from the Supreme Council and you've forgotten. The incident is over. I am voting on the basis of the deletion of paragraph 4, with the deletion of paragraph 4, which deals with objects of knowledge, the draft Ordinance on Listing, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Fifth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the commission for tomorrow to prepare subjects of committee knowledge. Please vote. Bill number 1005. [[12:44:04]] For 180. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 126, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 33, Communists – 21. The decision is not taken. The decision is not taken. We turn to the next issue of the day's agenda on the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, dear colleagues, don't worry, it's not the first time, and it's not the last time you don't make a decision. They'll come back. They'll be accepted. They won't be accepted, we won't be working without committees, what are you going through? The vote showed that there would be a coalition tomorrow. [[Applause]] At the Conciliation Council, we agreed that although no proposal had been accepted on the Conciliation Council, unlike the previous one that had been adopted, but the session hall did not support it, before we went to the discussion of the establishment of the parliamentary coalition, the parliamentary factions, we will consider making a change to the order of the day’s first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call to the period of formation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please sign up for the procedure. Let's sign up. Please point to the board. Five minutes. Roman Immortal, followed by Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u106	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues. We've analyzed a situation that may arise after the Committees of the Supreme Council fail to approve on the possibility of considering any other issues or making changes to the agenda. I want to make a statement and introduce you to the faction position. The point is that any act taken by the Supreme Council should only become legal once it has been signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. So that's the first problem that doesn't allow you to essentially consider and produce any acts that relate to the content of the consideration of whether this relates to the situation in Theodosia, or whether this refers to the situation in Dnipropetrovsk. Next. Among the projects proposed for consideration are such sensations. To advise the President to relieve the acting minister of his office. Dear colleagues, the point is that the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution today, is retired. And the ministers only perform their duties until they are appointed as other ministers. Thus, no one else has any reason to release the right and the possibility of such a constitutional one. If from the point of view of your political group, political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u107	I'm sorry. It's been 12 seconds. Alexander Baranowski, followed by Samofal Gennadi. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u108	Thank you. I'll give it to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u109	Alexander Frost. He didn't sign up this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u110	I signed up for seven, look closely, Adam Ivanovich. So I'm expressing my reasoning and the faction's opinion on this, the faction of the Socialist Party. We have to do everything within the limits of legislation and the Constitution. If there are specific lists of questions, they should be considered consistently as they are recorded. If we are not determined even to list the committee and its subject matter, the next question is no use. And I am convinced that we should not make any responsible decisions, especially when they do not have a legitimate basis. So it's a risk, it's kind of a demonstration of a willingness to work, but it's not just work. I suggest you take a break by 10:00 tomorrow and settle the coalition issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u111	Please, Gennady Samofalov. He's got Onichuk Mikola behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Eugenia Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u113	Eugene Kushnarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! The position of our faction has already been formulated by Raisa Richtirov. We believe that there are a number of very important issues in society today, which at least require complete and objective information for national MPs. So we think that we should continue to work, first of all, to create two commissions of inquiry on the situation in Crimea and on the situation in Dnipropetrovsk, and then in the parliamentary hearing regime to identify a list of issues: two, three, four, how do we determine where we should get full and objective information from the officials who are responsible for these issues in the state. And even this information will be enough for us to continue to draw conclusions for ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u115	Mikola Onichtuk. It's Sergei Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! They say to the people, "If you don't know how to do this, walk according to the law." Thus, the law governed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the Rules, in particular article 16, which very clearly regulates the situation in the Supreme Council, indicating that pending the formation of the personal composition of committees at the plenary sessions of the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council, the issue is discussed in the next sequence. We just got off the phone with you on the matter of lists of committees, subjects of their knowledge. The next question is the formation and registration of MP factions, the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council and beyond, the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then, if Parliament wants to move away from the position set out in the Rules, we must at least amend the Rules of the Supreme Council. There is no other way out, no other legal order of action for Parliament in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u117	Please, Sergey Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u118	Please give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u119	Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's been a good offer here, not to simulate work, but to really work. And that's why we have to make the decisions that are in the plane of the Constitution and the legislation that is in place, rather than mimic some speeches that are not responsible for anything. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, cannot move forward in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council until a coalition is formed. As far as it goes, or maybe these committees are going to work, well, there's a desire in the Supreme Council for this matter, especially the factions that didn't arise for a constructive job. That's why I'm going to the faction of the Regions, to the faction of our Ukraine, and I have to answer for the words. You've declared a broad coalition. Please, the time has come to report on this matter. Now the Supreme Council is listening to the question of creating a coalition. And that's the question, please, we want to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-14-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, communication has taken place. I'm just saying because it sounded a little bit like we had to change the Rules to deal with this issue, no. The article of the Rules had to be completed by the end of the 16th. And article 16 of the Rules states that if necessary, this is paragraph 2 - the Supreme Council may decide to change the sequence of consideration of the items listed. So it's... it's... If I vote, we'll take it. That's why I'm voting. Who, in order to change the order of the day's first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 5th call to the period before the formation of the personal composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please identify yourself? [[12:53:41]] For 204 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. The Party of Regions – 183, Block of Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 0, faction of Communists – 21. Thus, no decision is taken. Considering the fact that Wednesday, and in accordance with the 19th article of the Rules, Wednesday is only a morning meeting of the Supreme Council, so I declare a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow, and at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed. Good luck.
