ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, don't show your watch, I apologize, and now I'll explain, and you'll forgive me. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:05:05]] There are 440 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, allow me to introduce a delegation led by Vice-Marshalk to the Polish Federation of the Bronislav Komorowski. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] It was a good, honest conversation with the delegation that delayed the session for a few minutes. I won't be like this anymore. We're continuing the implementation of the agenda. The draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition, registration number 1011-D, is under consideration. The rapporteur is appointed by the commission, excuse me, from the working group by the national deputy Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. Prepare for the Lukyanov Committee. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished colleagues. Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the bill proposed for your consideration, prepared by the Working Group established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chairman of the Supreme Council of 13.09.2006 No.741. The bill was drafted on the basis of draft laws on opposition political activity, registration number 1011 of 25.05. In 2006, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Bogatirirova, Komar, Chernobyl and others. And about the parliamentary opposition, registration number 1011-1 from 04.09.2006, introduced by Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The post office for the creation of the working group and the beginning of the work on the bill were all well - known factors of a political, social and even legal nature in connection with the emergence of the new realities of the political system of Ukraine, as a result of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to the Constitution. These changes envision a new model of power building in Ukraine, including the increased impact of Parliament on the formation and activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As a result, there has been a marked increase in attention to the organization and activities of parliamentary structures, the relationship of political forces within the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The need to regulate relations in the area of opposition activities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become apparent, to identify the place of parliamentary opposition in the functioning of society and the state, the principles of relations between the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the parliamentary opposition, and to provide legislative guarantees for the activities of the parliamentary opposition. It is for the purpose of solving these issues that the bill is aimed at. It sets out the legal principles for guaranteeing opposition activities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the principles of organization, law, duty, and order of financing the activities of the parliamentary opposition. The bill takes into account the best traditions in this area. Guarantees are provided, representations of parliamentary opposition in positions of office in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its working bodies. Expanding the ability to raise awareness of parliamentary opposition in the media and to bring relevant information to the public. The rights of parliamentary opposition are defined in the process of Parliament and decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and others. The resolution of all the issues mentioned requires the adoption of a sufficiently large number of norms, which are technically appropriate in the form of a separate law. In doing so, appropriate questions can, in principle, be regulated by law. The working group has resorted to the need to regulate the issues mentioned by developing and introducing a separate Law on Parliamentary Opposition to the legislative body. In addition, the project proposes to amend a number of Ukraine's laws on the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, the “For the Supreme Council of Justice”, which foresees the involvement of Parliament's opposition to the formation of the personal composition of the state bodies and the Ukrainian Budget Code relating to the imposition on the parliamentary opposition of certain powers in the area of control over the use of the funds of Ukraine's State budget. The social necessity of adopting this project has already been noted above, but it is not unnecessary to add that the subject matter of this bill concerns the scope of the problem in which it is obvious. So the contradictions and conflicts between the participants in these relations, the ruling majority and the government on the one hand, and the opposition minority on the other hand in Parliament, and the protested part of society on the other hand, are appropriately addressed on the basis of legislative norms. It should be noted that this project offers no exaggeration in the process of further democratisation of the government system in Ukraine. Because its rights of parliamentary opposition will enable it to be legally protected from the possible untouchable steps of the majority and to create an enabling environment for the legal activity of this, one of the most important, institution of modern parliamentaryism. In view of this, at least there should be no doubt about the need for the adoption of a law on opposition. The proposed status of parliamentary opposition is not only to enable it to assess and impose certain requirements but also to involve it in the process of finding public decisions. Thus, not only the dominant but also the political interests that differ from them will be involved in shaping the State’s approach. In this system, political competition will be formalized, with legislative standards, looks. And the parliamentary opposition, having legal status, will prove its position in the official competition for better government decisions. It is hoped that such a model of opposition will create conditions for reducing differences between government and society, prevent the dangerous polarization of forces that exist both in society and in Parliament. In view of the special political role of the bill on parliamentary opposition and the proposed new ones, it can certainly buy off critical assessments. And we are far from claiming his absolute perfection. But at this point in his preparation, the task force has done what is set before it, and in our view, the maximum effect has already been achieved. So redesigning the project within the task force will no longer have a greater effect. Further work on it is worth joining, the legislative body as a whole, by adopting it as a basis in the first reading. The project is to be worked out in detail by MP factions, a wider circle of experts, and, to the maximum extent, to improve the position of the bill in preparing it for second reading. With this in mind, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian national MPs who have joined the working group and passed the bill on parliamentary opposition as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u3	Thank you, Viacheslav Stanislavovich. The report is complete. If you have a question, write it down. So let's take 10 minutes because the reporter saved us. Pachesuk, the “Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u4	Party of regions, Pachesuk. Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u5	The dry one is ready, give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u6	Thank you. I have a question. Vjacheslav Stanislavovich, you are an experienced parliamentarian, I fully agree with you that the opposition bill should not be written at a specific moment: what today is the opposition so, tomorrow it can be in a different format, it is certainly. So please tell me how far this standard has been worked out to get the media today, and you know how they're distributing and carrying out what the budget is going to take on, the taxpayers of maintenance taxes and the equipment of the opposition activities of the authorities that are going to provide for their activities. How appropriate is this to reality? If this is, really, for example, because there's nothing to worry about, the opposition is essential for further democratization. How have these standards been written?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u7	Dear Mr. Jaroslav! Dear colleagues! The parliamentary coalition, that is, the majority, has its own little secretariat, I don’t remember three or five people in the secretariat. Three, three people who work for the organization of the work of most of the Ukrainian Parliament, and that is normally absolutely normal. Because, for example, most of the factions are three factions, each faction has its own secretarial system that provides for the organization of the work of the faction. But there is also a small secretariat that organizes the work of the majority. The same secretariat is included in the bill and in the opposition, all the way out of the resources of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u8	Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u9	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u10	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u11	Mr. Viacheslav, I would like to ask you, as head of this task force, which acted according to the orders of the Supreme Council. Now I've heard criticism or words from different factions. Some say it's stupid, others say it's not stupid, it's the law. We've been working with you for months. The bill, you know, had four representatives of the Party of the Regions, four representatives of the BUTU, one representative of our Ukraine, one representative of the Socialist Party. Moreover, we asked the faction leaders to officially delegate these people to us. The Communists were not the only official ones, and all the other factions were represented. How could you comment on the current refusal of some factions to support this bill, taking into account what their deputies have signed?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, all the deputies working in the working group were members of the working group. Nevertheless, I do not think they were members of factions, because the working group was formed by the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And all of us, nine of us who have worked on this bill for three and a half months, cannot create anything better. And as much as we don't want to continue the commission's work for another six months, we can't do any better. So what I'm saying is, what we've done, we've done our job, and now the higher legislature can take responsibility for either adopting this bill as a basis, working out, doing something else, or rejecting it, and thus expressing our point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u13	Please, Babourin Ponomarenko gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u14	Viacheslav Stanislavovich, Ponomarenko, a faction of Communists. We've been in the UK with you in the past week, studying the work of opposition: there is opposition, but there is no law of opposition. And in general, the only country in Europe has the Opposition Act, and I don't think there's a Parliament in the world that has such a law besides Portugal. As you think, if half or more of Parliament will work under the Rules, and opposition under the Law, does that make it even. I think it was wise for our State Building Committee to act wisely when it corrected this Law on Opposition to the Regulatory Committee in order to make appropriate changes to the Rules and not to make any laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u15	Georgiy Georgievich, and the distinguished national MPs! What will be the decision of the Supreme Council, we will all do it. If the decision is to be sent to another committee, then that committee will be engaged. I represent the position of a working group that can't think of anything better. As far as Britain is concerned. Unfortunately, Britain does not have a Constitution, but it has traditions. There is no law of opposition, but it has the opposition of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain, and no one has any doubt about sitting in the seat, who you are and what you went to the rostrum, or who he is. That's it. We don't have traditions. That is what we are today. I hope that we too will become a nation that has traditions in it. But in order to help this process, I don't think it's worth giving up on this law, which is called parliamentary opposition. But that's my point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u16	Thank you. I support your sincere opinion, Viacheslav Stanislavovich, that a better law can no longer be written. Please, Bogesheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u17	Natalia Bogashova, "Our Ukraine." Please pass the word to Boris Jakovitch Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u18	Boris Bespali, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u19	Thank you. First of all, I have a few questions on the way to the discussion. Can't you really write a better law? Maybe we could use an expert from the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, because such planting documents had previously been sent there for expertise. Was this done? If not, why not? The other one. It's clear from the discussion that there's no such law anywhere in the world except Portugal, by the way, there's an imperative mandate, there's no such law, and we'd be doing know-how here, so why don't you explain another such know-how? As it is, article 4 of Part 3 states that the factions and MPs who did not enter “not to the majority who did not claim to join the only opposition are not recognized at all as members of the opposition activity. That is, we understand how we can take away power and how we can get rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u20	Dear Boris Jakovic, I think that if the Supreme Council decides to set up a new working group in charge of you, you will be able to create a new, better Law on Opposition and I will welcome you, sincerely welcome you for your work, which I hope you will do. With regard to the deprivation of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies, some premeditated deprivation of rights. If the Ukrainian national deputy does not claim that he is in the majority and does not claim to be in opposition, he remains a national deputy, but he does not belong to either the majority or the opposition, because he does not claim this because he has no point of view, he has not determined, if he has not determined, he goes to the non-fractional and thinks, well, I think so. If that's not clear, well, I don't know how to explain it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u21	Expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! You can criticize me, but I'm telling you again, a four-month working group has been working on the bill for four months, looking at a lot of options, suggestions and whatever. Now a bill has been born. The Supreme Council depends on what to do with this bill, to support, to make changes, to supplement, to reject. Make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u23	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u24	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Viachelav Stanislavovich! I can't agree with a colleague who asked me questions about being stupid, not stupid. But no, it's the Opposition Act. The democratic law that we've all been waiting for, I'm personally in opposition, that's what happened for 10 years, and I was hoping it would be better. Yet this law has already been called. Attention! I'm using the Monoposition Act for a new term. Yes, so from the word “monover” when there is an act by one actor, and everyone else is not even in the crowd, but somewhere there is a scene, they make a scene in the sky, or they change decorations. What am I looking at? When a faction comes out of the coalition, the faction, the coalition, is destroyed. And why we don't see the coalition in opposition, because the opposition has to be even more democratic than the coalition. This seems to make sense for us to be united. In view of that, I would like to ask you, is there such a democratic norm in your prescribed law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u25	Dear Lilia Stepanovna, there may be problems and questions to this bill. And it's true what you're saying. But for that, there are first readings, second readings, third readings, changes, additions and so on. So I'm asking that as the head of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to reject? Decline. Taking as a base and taking additions, changes and work, and faction leaders or factional deputies, is also a normal option. Consider later in the second reading. But let the Supreme Council assume its responsibility without translating it into a working group. We did our job, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u26	Thank you. Thank you, Vjacheslav Stanislavovich, please sit down, really, and don’t vex the person who has made a very good law. Indeed, if there were such a law, any opposition would have wanted to live by it, perhaps most would have turned into opposition under such a law, under such a law. Yes, from the committee the Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government Vladislav Lukyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! As regards the issue of the parliamentary opposition bill, registration number 10119 of 04.12.2006. According to the commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk of December 4, 2006, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government has been designated principal in the drafting of the Law on Parliamentary Opposition by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Kowal, Komar, Timoshenko and others. The bill has been drafted by a working group appointed by the Head of the Supreme Council, number 741 since 13.09.2006, with the aim of combining the laws on opposition political activity, registration number 1011, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bogatirirova, Komar, Crnowil, Bebelzenko and the parliamentary opposition, registration number 1011-1, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, and the preparation of the harmonized draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. We believe that the committee has been established on the basis of the drafting of these bills because they have provided for regulation of both parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition activities. On this, the harmonized bill, registration number 1011-D, defines the legal principles and guarantees of opposition activities exclusively in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The principles of the relationship between the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the parliamentary opposition, as well as the principles of organization, law, responsibilities and order of financing the parliamentary opposition, etc. In the light of the above, the Committee considered the question of defining the Main Committee for the Drafting of the Parliamentary Opposition Bill with Registration Number 1011-D at its meeting of 06.12.2006 and determined that the matter should be referred to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for what purpose letters were sent to the Head of the Supreme Council on 6 and 14 December. In addition, the conclusion of the General Directorate of Science and Exports came to the committee on 13 December 2006. Considering why, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue was not essentially addressed at the last meeting of the committee. Today, too, no conclusions have been drawn from any parliamentary committee that is also mandated to consider the bill. Taking this into account, please withdraw from this session of the Supreme Council a bill with registration number 1011-D and transfer the matter to another day of plenary meeting in accordance with articles 88, 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council following the adoption of the conclusion of the Main Committee, which will be decided, we hope, taking into account what has been said. Which I'd like to add to the substance of the bill. If you look at this bill now, I agree with the questions that have been said that, in fact, the opposition has more rights in this case than most of the coalition parties that have created the majority in the Supreme Council. And if you look at this bill, I would say it's not a bill of opposition, it's a political party called a three-letter faction, but not a Movement, in the Supreme Council. I would also like to add that, if you take Western experience, the opposition has the greatest rights to publicize the government's work, has no rights to intervene in government work, and has only the opportunity to comment on the government's media work and make any alternative proposals. In view of that, I would say that this bill needs to be completely redrafted, and it can't even be taken as a basis. I therefore propose to support the committee's proposal and to move the matter to the Ethics and Rules Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u28	Thank you. Any questions? Yes. Sign up. Please, five minutes. Bondarenko Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u29	Please hand over Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u30	Mikola Tomenko, one of the authors of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u31	Your Honor, the co-reporter! What bothers me in this situation? I don't know what your relationship is with the faction, the Party of Regions, because you were so demeaning about this bill, and you were talking about your four colleagues from a party of regions who worked with us for three and a half months and put their signatures there. Moreover, they came to every meeting and said that we had consulted with the faction and the party, and that we agree or disagree. I have the impression that either it's an element of a political game, because I know you're not the first day in Parliament, you've been in Parliament for months now, and you know that if you want to work on the law, you have to take it on the first reading and work on it. And if you do not want such a law to be, it is rejected or carried. So I'm surprised at all the previous three-month statements made by the Party of Regions about how they care about the opposition and your current speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u32	Please be able to answer. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u33	Well, if I've got the right question: what is my relationship with the faction of Ukraine, I want to say that I have a friendly relationship with my colleagues, we have a mutual understanding, we have respect for each other, but sometimes there are situations where different MPs have different views on some things. And so with regard to the opposition bill, taking into account the European experience, to which opposition so always appeals, and taking into account the experience of Britain – the cradle of democracy, I would say that we can accept some changes to the Rules that could actually secure some rights of opposition, especially regarding the handling of the media and giving them some authority. And that's where I end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u34	I remind you that it was the committee's opinion, not the Party of Regions. Please, Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u35	Of course, under the conditions that exist today in Ukraine, the advantages offered here by opposition are largely justified, because we want to have both a democratic state and finally get rid of both corruption and total violations of current legislation in all areas of life, and here opposition is given broad rights. But at the same time, I am concerned about such things. For example, article eight, paragraph four, may be expelled from the parliamentary opposition. How is it excluded? For what is it excluded? It's around here, it's already, I think, too. Or, for example, a reference to the Constitutional Court is article 12. Only from the opposition. It's only from the opposition, can there be groups of deputies within the opposition who wish to appeal to the Constitutional Court on their behalf and some opposition disagree? As a result, I feel that the law should be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u36	Mr. Kulczynski, well, considering you've touched on a lot of questions in your speech. Well, first of all, the rights of opposition that should be given to it, according to this bill. I agree with you that too many rights and especially the right to intervene in government activities, the right to intervene in the activities of officials. I don't think they should be. the transfer of opposition, because the government is responsible for the job, the government is doing all the work, and the right to take pictures, to appoint, the right to be appointed to the office wants to take up the opposition. It really doesn't fit the bill, and I agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u37	The widow of Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think we should finally develop this proud peer and adopt the Opposition Act. Your proposal to refer it to the Rules Committee and make some changes to the Rules is a palliative proposal. We have to get out of the fact that we have a Parliament today in this composition, tomorrow or after tomorrow, or that this Parliament may be disbanded in the spring, a new elected one, and it is not excluded that today's majority may become a minority, so I urge both the majority and the minority in Parliament to understand. As you did today, you were witnesses to the account. Just like the task force did. And another observation. You refer to European experience. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u39	Dear Mr. Udovenko, well, you have raised two questions in your speech: one question is perhaps the dream of all opposition to dissolve Parliament and most to destroy it somehow. But I have already answered this question more than once, although it does not apply to the law. I want to say that for the next five years, and most likely after the work of this Parliamentary office, the opposition as it is the opposition will remain for the next ten years. This is the first time. Second of all, what I'd like to say. I understand the opposition’s desire to become an opposition to the law, that is, to legalize and adopt this law. But in my opinion, European experience does not give us such grounds for adopting a separate law. And I would suggest that we accept the amendments to the Rules and allow the opposition to work as it does in civilized countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up for factions. Got it. Now, who wants it? Let's take 21 minutes. Three for seven, twenty-one. Yes, please, Silchenko, the Socialist faction. To whom do you give the word? Menduz? Jaroslav Mendus, please. Get ready, Tuck. Zybenko's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, just recently when there was an authoritarian regime in Ukraine, the failure of Parliament’s work was or was not the only way to resist. Today, the situation is fundamentally different. The Parliamentary-President Republic is working well, and much of the laws are adopted by a constitutional majority rather than a simple one. Opposition factions are criticizing the State Budget Act today, but no one can deny that the hundreds of amendments tabled by members of the opposition are largely included in the financial document. I don't think any of the opposition factions can complain of ineffective activity within the Supreme Council committees, where work is organized in terms of professionalism and mutual respect. By the way, that's the constructive part of the work as part of the working group on the drafting of the bill on parliamentary opposition. Who wouldn't talk about the reverse and try to make a pianist? Regrettably, we have politicians who claim to be opposition to the content of their opposition. In my mind, opposition should be an alternative to power, and the sharpest debates should be about alternative bills. Instead, there are often third - class political problems involved in scandals here in the Parliamentary Hall. By the way, it's used as a reason for a big political show. If the main weapon of opposition is the legislative activity, not the bellows and the blocking of the rostrum, then the ground for the constructive interaction of power and opposition in the interests of society will emerge. What, by the way, is inherent in the culture of democratic countries. Unfortunately, the contents of the bill contain a number of inadequacies. Article 1 defines the non-parliamentary opposition and the united parliamentary opposition, which artificially restricts the right of opposition to a separate parliamentary faction. A number of proposed positions conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, the Provisional Commissions of Inquiry in accordance with article 89 create the Supreme Council, not opposition. And from the same series of novels that under opposition are enshrined the right to direct and coordinate the activities of the State Committee of Financial Monitoring, which is an executive body. There are other inaccuracies and contradictions. So I suggest that we adopt the law in the first reading, but seriously refine it by removing all these gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u42	Peter Cibenko, Communist faction, please. To prepare for Bespalloma, Bogasheva delivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u43	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I think there's no doubt in this room that the activity of the opposition should be normalized. True, the faction of the Communists of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is that we are looking at the problem of opposition a little bit wider than the problems of the parliamentary opposition, as set out in the title of the draft law that is currently under consideration. But nevertheless, it is a question that really needs to be brought back to normal. But there is a strange situation. Well, let's just say that we have today the Law of Ukraine on Rules. The law of opposition is adopted, as is the case. And there is a strange situation where most coalitions are governed by the Law of the Rules. Another part of the Supreme Council, which calls itself opposition, is governed by the law of opposition. I mean, figuratively speaking, being a member of one election body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two parts of it, two parts of it praying, figuratively speaking, to two different gods. So what we're talking about is, really, these things are incompatible. How can we move away from a situation that, in our view, is abnormal? And it's easy to walk away. The most fundamental things that govern the activity of the opposition, set out in a separate chapter of the Rules, should be supplemented by this section by the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so to be guided, to create a situation in which both and other parts of the electoral body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be governed by the rules of one document. I'm not saying that there's a lot of inadequacies that can't be supported even in the first reading. For example, there is an attempt to put the opposition not only to the Supreme Council, which it is part of, but also to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to other institutions of government. Therefore, the faction of Communists is that the basic principles of the opposition’s activity should be set out in a separate chapter and included in the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u44	Boris Bespalij, faction “Our Ukraine”, please. Prepare Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the idea of the Opposition Law is questionable in general. Because most laws are passed. So this is going to be the red flags that most of the people are putting up opposition. That's why such laws are not practiced in democracy. And this attempt is also a failure. First. What is one single opposition? This reminds me of what it used to be, a staunch block of communists and unparty or communists behind anti-communists. Or even more profoundly, when Comrade Stalin was uniting his enemies, his opponents into the left-hand centre block. This is ridiculous. The other one. How is opposition proposed? Here's the thing. The first person to meet the presiding officer received a monopoly on opposition activity. He then approves the order of opposition, accepts it, or refuses to accept it, may rule it out. So in such opposition, excuse me, everything is silent in all languages. Next moment, even more interesting. The MPs, I quote, the MPs, the individual MPs who didn't join the parliamentary majority and didn't claim to join the parliamentary opposition, don't recognize themselves as members of the opposition. Come on. It turns out that if you don't buy a license to do opposition work, you have to take another license. It's a very interesting situation. By the way, this law is actually about pocket-observing opposition, about dancing for the government. And I'm not surprised, by the way, that's the law on opposition to the law, as a representative of one of the Party of Regions said here. And that's why I'm not even surprised if the Party of Regions votes in favour of the opposition to the law. As for “our Ukraine, ” once Paul Tikina said: “To live, I do not ask anyone the right.” “Our Ukraine” has not asked anyone, asked or asked the right to his patriotic position or his right to stand in opposition. And we don't support this project about pocket opposition, and we won't acknowledge it. It's absolutely impossible to process it in the first reading, because here this pocket opposition is its essence, it's its concept and, by the way, it's testimony to these uncivilized challenges that I hear from the Party of Regions, which is very fond of the pocket opposition, and which is very much displeased with the opposition that we are and that we will remain until the authorities in Ukraine move away from your anti-crisis, or, more specifically, the crisis government to the real patriotic government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u46	Olga Bodnar, faction “Blok Timoshenko”. She's got Baldirev Yuri behind her. Tomenko, please. I gave her my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, you know, there's a lot of interesting talk going on right now, interesting speeches around the opposition law. Although I'm surprised by the reference to English experience, that, come on, they don't have an opposition law, let's go and we won't have it. Dear colleagues, our English colleagues have no constitution. But this does not mean that the proposals will cancel the Constitution of Ukraine in order to be Europeanly defined. So we just have to get out of the situation in Ukraine, unfortunately, we don't have any tradition, we don't have any legislation to ensure a relationship, I'm stressing the relationship between power and opposition. That is the purpose of the law that was passed to the Chamber of Deputies, who worked for more than three months in the Working Group. Once again, it's not about opposition, it's about the relationship of power and opposition. And the opposition here isn't given any additional rights that we've been singing about from the rostrum, but the opposition is given the exclusive right to control power. Having the opportunity to inform the public about the errors of authority, to make constructive suggestions for correcting these mistakes. It's a normal, civilized formula, and that's the formula that should work in Ukraine. If we don't accept legislative regulation of power relations and opposition, then any of our political problems turn into civil conflicts, and that's what's dangerous, honourable colleagues. We don't need civil conflicts, we need a powerful Ukraine. And it is the foundation of this Ukraine that must be laid in this law. And it seems to me that those who are in power today are interested in this, and it is they who should first vote in favour of such a bill. Do you know what's surprising? That virtually all the factions and regions and our Ukraine and the socialist faction worked in this working group, which was formed by the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council. And they made proposals to this group for all the MP factions. And, you know, I'm surprised, especially the position, when a regional representative was speaking, there's something in this law that he doesn't understand. Colleagues! Your deputies worked, including this law, you had the opportunity to ask questions for three months, all the suggestions we tied up, all the suggestions were taken into account. And you know what it's about. The Communists proposed a broader concept than opposition. There was a first scheme, a particular opposition that applied not only to Parliament but also to Parliament. But it was for the proposal of the anti-crisis coalition that this rule was removed. And I want to go to Mr. Bespalogo, I don't know who he represented, but you know, what you want to do in a separate law, you have to call the "bolo" law, and you probably have to adopt such a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u48	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u49	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, when leaders of the current opposition were still learning who in the school, who in the institution, some current deputies were indeed leading the real opposition to the then regime and taking hundreds of thousands of people to rallies, attacks against the then KGB, against the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which held the wheel firmly in contrast to the current authority. So, as a professional opposition with a lot of historical experience, I can tell you, the less law the opposition has, the more effective it is. So if you think today, because I'm in the ranks of the ruling majority, I want to deceive you, in your own faction there's the same specialist, the name of his Volinec, to talk to him, he'll explain to you how to do it for real. That you want to legitimize your relationship with the State today, you know, for a long time now, even our society has agreed to a civil marriage. I am not saying that the church recognizes only its church marriage. Nor in the opposition law, if it is for you to have a new reason for the show, then I agree, then let's fight for the opposition law. If, in principle, the question is essentially, then it does not matter, as it is called, what is called an opposition law or is called a change to the rule of law. It is important that the regulation of opposition activities be as limited as possible in principle as possible: what is not prohibited is permitted. Therefore, in my view, as if diverting from my current party membership, in my view, in any case, the opposition is always interested in the absence of the Opposition Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u50	Alexander's Alla, please. Behind her is Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u51	What is the point of opposition from my point of view? The opposition is a minority, and the most important thing for this minority to be heard. Because you and I know that very often in a minority there are proposals, even from the point of view of a party minority, there are some proposals, and so on, that today, indeed. It's an idea to own a minority, but it's the right idea. And most importantly, to enable this right idea to become the domain of the majority, to be perceived by the majority of society and to be realized in life. The law that has been proposed to us is in no way conducive to this principle. It is not enough that it repeats the rules of the Rules, replaces the Rules, largely contravenes the Constitution and, by the way, introduces less democratic rules than those existing today in the laws governing the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, article 4, third paragraph. It is stated here that those MPs and those people's deputies who did not make up either the majority or the minority, in fact, as stipulated here, fall out of the MP's work. They may claim to participate in committees, investigative commissions and so on only after allocating all these seats, positions between the majority and the opposition. I'm sorry, this actually removes members from the MPs. No one has the right to restrict individually each deputy to the activities laid down in the Constitution by the Law relating to the Status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's what the law says. This is a flagrant violation of democracy and it cannot be accepted. I would like to recall the 19th article, which is the right to participate in the formation of public authorities. Only the name wild, the opposition and claims to be represented in the authorities of the State. Yes, it says here that this is the National Bank of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors and so on. But the funniest part of it is that the Nazbank of Ukraine, comrades, respected colleagues, is a body that regulates the vitality of the economic and political State. And the rule of representation is assumed: four members of the Council from the opposition and only three from the majority -- that is, excuse me, complete absurdity. It is a body that largely determines the economic performance of the Government. And so on and so forth. I have written many articles that are really nonsensical in terms of sound logic. And articles 15, 17 can be supported, 18 too, but this is the rule of the Rules. I therefore believe that, in such a form, it is completely wrong, it is necessary to work on the Rules, it is necessary to enable the minority's voice to be heard, so that the right of control is exercised not only by the opposition but also by each MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u52	Thank you, Eugene Kirilchuk Mikoli Tomenko has passed on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u53	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to return all our colleagues and deputies and experts to real life. And the real life is that we can be oriented in other countries, we can not be oriented in other countries. Today, opposition has one privilege: If it wants to make a decision, ask for it and have one responsibility to block it. There are other mechanisms for making a decision, and we are witnesses in this session hall, apart from the demands of persistent, or forceful, blocking. So our approach will be very simple. We need to find out clearly, once and for all, what the content of the problem in the system of power organization is, so that the opposition from now on and 20-30 years in advance knows what it is doing and what rights it has. My first thesis. It is related to the fact that we have very many national deputies, where the general line changes even faster than the general line is defined by the party. There can be no MPs in Parliament who can't determine their orientation in any way. There may be MPs who are in power and MPs who are in opposition. If anyone wants, let's make a law on MPs without a definite political orientation. But there is power and opposition in a normal country. In opposition there may be elements, different ideological, different tactics, but there can be no situation in Parliament today that everyone uses when they drag some part of it for one vote or another. There is a second thesis that relates to the fact that there are real instruments for controlling the activity of authority. These tools were designed and I see no problem, for when our colleagues were in opposition for a few days, they were happy to talk about what the House of Accounts should control. A few days ago, I had a discussion with my colleagues from the Party of Regions, but I have no idea how a leader, one of the leaders of the factions of the “Regions”, can defend human rights and defend opposition. It is quite obvious that the Human Rights Commissioner represents civil society and protects against authority, local authority, and central authority. Therefore, it is not necessary for each assignment to be held and the month to be debated, and this must be determined once and for all by the law in force. And the Rules. I think Adam Ivanovich knows better than anyone here what the Rules are and especially knows how to do them. So I wouldn't want us to have ad hoc in the Rules all the time for opposition. For when it comes to the rights of opposition in the Rules, always the majority will vote in 226 votes and forget these rights of opposition. It must be the law, and if there are any claims, we vote, we debate between the first and the second readings, but historically.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u54	Thank you. Boris Bespali, a replica, was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u55	Insomnia. Alexander Turchinov was interested in who I represent. I have the honour to introduce "Our Ukraine," which, by the way, has a very successful opposition experience in the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call, the past. There was no law then. But there was a strong opposition, there were brothers, there were Turks among them, and who would dare deny that this opposition has made a decisive contribution to the fact that Ukraine is democratic today. And the People's Council of the First Council, it was also not a swamp, of course, nor an opposition to the law, but it deserves a colossal thanks for the colossal addition it has made to Ukraine's independence. So I think we need to be more respectful of the real people who take their stand and defend their position regardless of what they do in power, they don't listen and they don't seek cover to be opposition to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Since I was mentioned, let me also say two words. No doubt the interesting ideas, the proposals, especially in the early versions were and, indeed, I jokingly said, but perhaps if you act under such a law, especially that was in the first instance, then in opposition much better than being in the coalition, because it has much broader possibilities and virtually no responsibility. We need to look, we need to look for, really, opportunities to give everything, to open up, they say, all the locks in order for the opposition to have the right word, to have the right to speak, to have the right to speak, to have the opportunity to express their thoughts in any way possible and to consider matters. The only thing is, let me ask you one question, and each of us will think. A good idea, for example, is the head, deputy and secretary of the House of Auditors, and four supervisors are appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of parliamentary opposition. Pass. But in order to appoint them, you have to secretly cast 226 votes in favour. For me, the authors of the law, please tell me how to get the national deputies to vote as recorded in the Opposition Act? No way. Because he's a national MP, and he's voting anyway. And it's clear that in the vast majority, since this is opposition, well today the opposition, of course, 200 people, tomorrow the opposition may be 20 people, and it's clear that 20 people won't be able to get another 226 votes just the way they want to. I'm completely in solidarity with those who said there can't be two equal MPs, most of them opposition. The entire Supreme Council lives by the Rules, and a portion of the Supreme Council must live by law. All national deputies are equal. Or let's adopt a law for the entire Supreme Council, the Rules. Or, if there is a Rules of Procedure, we settle it in the Rules. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I would ask you not to make any remarks. Because I'm making you notice that you're obstructing work. I'm making a note, I'm making a note. This is according to the Rules that the Chief of Staff has the right to comment and to sum up the discussion. Don't get excited, because the day is over. We discussed the question. I'll put it to a vote. True, we don't have a committee decision, but we're going to think that I'm voting on the proposal of the working group to adopt the 1011 Bill on Parliamentary Opposition in the first reading. [[17:04:06]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Factions, factions. Region Party – 1, July Timoshenko Block – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialists – 28, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm addressing both the regulatory committee and the authors of this legislative initiative. Let's put a separate chapter in the Rules, a separate chapter in the Rules after the chapter on coalition, and immediately write a chapter on parliamentary opposition. And all that about our parliamentary activity, let's put it in our Rules. And I think it's going to be real. I'm saying, I'm just saying, there can't be any vote here, because I can't force you to write what. What do we vote on? Well, that's just an offer. Yes, Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u57	There's an offer, Adam Ivanovich. On the basis of the proposals that have been made here, there is a proposal for this bill to be sent to the regulatory committee for further work. The Commission has worked, has made its base, has prepared a basis. We now send it to the regulatory committee and let it work in the form of amendments to the Rules, in the form of a new version, so to speak. This is already a matter for the regulatory committee. Let it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, on the Regulatory Committee, we can have the law redrafted when we adopt it in the first reading. Thus, the regulatory committee can only do so on its own initiative or any of us. So we can't make any more decisions than we haven't voted for. To review the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, chapter. Registration number 1152, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine, concerning the introduction of the law in accordance with the applicable criminal legislation. Report to the Head of State Department on the execution of Koštinec Vasil Vasilovich, please. Get ready from the Oil Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko returned with proposals for reconsideration adopted on 19 October this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty Application in Ukraine. In particular, the law proposes that paragraph “D” of part 1 of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine” should be added to the valid rule that amnesty is not subject to persons who are convicted of committing a deliberate serious or particularly serious crime and who have served less than half of the basic sentence of the court: “...unless they are transferred to a social rehabilitation department”. The introduction of this additional condition for the transfer to the social rehabilitation office will result in violations of the rights of those to whom amnesty can be applied under the applicable law. This is contrary to part three of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed when new laws are adopted or amended. According to article 99 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, in the area of social rehabilitation, they are held for the first time to be deprived of the will for crimes committed by negligence, a crime of small and medium gravity, and transferred within one correctional colony from the area of socialization. According to part two of article 101 of the Code, women and women with children under the age of three are not entitled to the transfer of the first and second groups; persons who have reached retirement age; pregnant women and women who have children under the age of three; persons who have not completed a full course in the treatment of certain types of diseases, and so on. So the act of amnesty is not going to spread to 5,000 people who are socially vulnerable to the population, who are being held in the institutions of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. Among them are 3.4 thousand people who have reached retirement age, nearly one and a half thousand with disabilities in the first and second groups, over one hundred pregnant women and women who have children. Also, the new norm is not in line with the principle of humanism, one of the fundamental principles of criminal law enforcement, enforcement and punishment. In addition, the new standard is subjective. The timely transfer of the person by decision of the correctional colony’s administration to the social rehabilitation office, depending on whether amnesty is or will be applied to one or the other person. In practice, this will result in violations of human rights and freedoms and of citizens and other negative consequences. In view of what has been said, it is proposed in paragraph 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine to delete the words: “they are not transferred to the Social Rehabilitation Office”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u60	Yes, thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Yeah, it's clear, I think. Dear colleagues, there's one sentence in the law. Is there a question? There is a question. Let's, if there's no objection, ask Easy and Widow a question. Nobody insists anymore? Please, Easy, and then Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u61	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, of course, we will support the President, because we cannot vote in favour of narrowing citizens' rights. But I have another question for you. Vasil Vasilovich, there's no mystery in the country: hundreds of thousands of people are sitting in the institutions you run, they're undernourished, there's no work, there's no tuberculosis, there's nothing else. What, then, do you do to make these people suffer as little as possible? Why don't you take the initiative not to get caught for petty crimes — for three bracelets, when billions of people steal, they run the country, and for three bracelets of five years in prison? So what are you doing to make this contingent at least fed to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u62	Vasil Vasilovich, don't answer, this isn't about the law. You'll talk to him later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u63	I'm all I wanted, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u64	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u65	I would like to thank the Supreme Council from this rostrum that, over the past two years, it has nearly doubled the funding of the system. Although it is now 53 percent, compared to 2004, funding has doubled. Thank you for that. Well, the answer to the question is, I think you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u66	Yes, you will. And just take him as your counselor, he'll tell you how to work. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u67	Adam Ivanovich, yet a good offer to take counsel, not to the cell, or to do well. Vasil Vasilovich, when the word "amnesty" is proclaimed in Parliament, throws me into the grip, because today there are punishments in your institutions, including those of the living people who took this. A crime they didn't commit. Could we not now, or would you not consider it appropriate, that those people who have confessed to crimes of torture should, in some way, also look at their affairs, because we must restore justice. I personally receive dozens of appeals from people who have been sentenced. sentenced to execution and then to life imprisonment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u68	Thank you for asking, Gennady Josephovich. I'd love to accept your offer, but the role and place of the criminal service does not provide for any interference in the investigation, the judicial authorities, and so forth. Procurator's office. We have no right to initiate such things. So there's a man's appeal. I am the only one who can ensure that all appeals from the condemned person are addressed to the address he is referring to. And the functions of speaking either legally or illegally, I'm sorry, but I'm not. The system is out of commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u69	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee, Svetoslav Oilynik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Supreme Council's Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a law amending the Ukrainian law on the application of amnesty with the President's proposals. As Adam Ivanovich rightly pointed out, the essence of the proposal is to disagree with the wording proposed in the law on restrictions placed on persons who are not transferred to the social rehabilitation office. The President draws the attention of the Supreme Council to the fact that such restrictions are contrary to the principles set out in article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inability to narrow down the rights and powers of citizens by further laws. The Supreme Council Committee found these proposals to be correct and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to accept the President's proposals and to exclude from the text the conditions for restricting the application of amnesty in relation to persons who were not transferred to social rehabilitation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u71	Thank you, thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the committee is proposing to support the President's proposal. And by the way, the Science and Experimental Authority is also offering to agree with that. That's why I'm voting on the President's proposal. She's here alone to support the President's proposal. Vote. [[17:16:07]] For 375 The President's proposal is supported. I now put to the vote: on the adoption of an entire law, taking into account the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Amnesty Act. [[on the introduction of laws in accordance with valid criminal legislation]] Please vote. Easy, just for yourself. [[17:16:43]] For 380 Except for whoever's in the cell, you can. 380, the law is passed taking into account the President's proposals. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is under consideration. Registration number 0821. Reported by Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy, Šinkarenko Pavlov Semenovich. Please, two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u72	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 April 2006, passed the Act “On Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Subject to Privatisation”. Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the List of Non-privatisationable Real Estate Objects is proposed to be complemented by a provision banning the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society, the Mayak Institution, between 2006 and 2008. On the basis of his constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine returned this Law to the Supreme Council with his proposals, based on the following: the main reasons, two reasons and two factors – legal and economic. The legal basis is that according to section 5 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, a list of non-privatisationable property is approved by the Supreme Council for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was not involved in resolving the issue of the further fate of VAT “Majak”. The second factor is economic. The adoption of the bill will have a negative impact on the implementation of the 2007 State budget and on the financing of appropriate budget programmes. At the same time, it is also important to note that the introduction of the Act will not contribute to the government's tasks of coming up with funds from the privatisation plan for 2007. A few words, honourable MPs, I want to say about the enterprise itself. The Open Share Company “Majak” was founded in 1996 by transforming the state factory “Majak” into a privatization process. At present, 100% of the shares of the statutory association fund are owned by the State, and corporate rights are managed by the state property fund of Ukraine. The cost of major assets is over 80 million dollars. Main technical and economic indicators: the volume of goods expected for 2006 is 22 million 500 thousand dollars; the volume of implementation is 24 million 900,000; the number of workers is 630; and the average monthly wage is 760 dollars. In order to improve the efficiency of the core funds and create conditions of investment attractiveness, a restructuring of the enterprise was carried out following the restructuring programme approved by the Holding Fund. During the restructuring, eight farm societies were formed, with their founders investing more than 30 million dollars. Today, it can be said with confidence that the measures taken to restructure the enterprise and the positive dynamics of the financial economic performance of the work, the high willingness of the company to work in complex market conditions, which is proved by the very life and work of managers – engineers and workers of VAT Mayak, its considerable investment attractiveness today will allow the completion of the almost ten-year privatisation process with the greatest investment return on the further development of the leading high-tech enterprise. Today, the business has no debts to the budget payments, to the Pension Fund and to the wages, and to the repayment of debts of all previous years. Since 2002, VAT “Majak” has been working profitablely. According to the main activity of VAT, the Mayan does not belong to a list of enterprises that are strategically relevant to the economy and security of the State and are not subject to privatisation under the Ukrainian Privatisation Act. The prohibition of its privatization is economically impractical. Honourable MPs, supporting this position in terms of the business that took place 10 years ago on the path of dissipation and has good reason to find an effective owner in the near future, the possibility of further investment for further development under special privatization conditions is supporting the development of the domestic economy on market principles. So please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Any questions? It's in Laszko. Well, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u74	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter! We will continue to consider the President's proposals on the “Croakcraft” objects, ferro-fluid, I think. Now you're reporting to the Mayan factory. Thus, it is suggested that they should not be included in the list of objects that are not privatized to be sold to the budget. But, as far as I can remember, in the law that we passed on objects subject to privatization, "Majaka" is not there. So what's the point here that you're telling me that in 2007 we won't be able to fill the budget if the President's veto is over? There is no subject on the list, so get to know each other carefully. And why even sell a business that, in your words, works profitably? What's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u75	A distinguished national MP, the logic is that today, when an investment firm is attractive, when it works, for it actually sells it at auction, under the duly written investment commitments can really take the price it costs. That's the first one. As for why he was not in that law. Because on April 4, the current law on making changes to the first article was adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u76	Yes, please have a seat. Deputy Minister of Economy Musin Ludmila Abdurahmanovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u77	The Ministry of Economics also supports the President's proposal. And I believe that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that are not subject to privatization is not supported. And allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the further fate of the Mayan factory, based on economic relevance, the need for investment resources and so on. So the position of the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the President is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u78	Thank you. Yeah, from the committee, who do we have? Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Economic Policy held its meetings on 6 and 14 September 2006 reviewed the proposals by the President of Ukraine for amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 April 2006, which prohibits the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society for 2006-2008. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the prescribed law, particularly in view of the fact that, in violation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, the Government was not involved in resolving the issue by violating its constitutional powers regarding the administration of public property objects, article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and overriding the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because it has been decided on a single-person basis, under the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, to decide on the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, according to the President of Ukraine, it is also left out that the Open Shareholders Association “Majak” under the main activity does not refer to property rights that are not privatised under the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, article 5. It should be noted that the President has already returned the prescribed law to the Supreme Council for the third time with the proposal to reject it. The Committee on Economic Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and reject the Act of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u80	Yes, have a seat, please. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u81	I've already made six speeches under this law, and I want to say one thing: I've listened to all the speakers, and so-called deputy ministers and all of them. Did you hear any of them, anyone, have any experts, want to keep some sort of technique in Ukraine? We destroyed all the factories. The entire defense industry, 40 percent of the entire Soviet Union, was destroyed. All the scientific defense plants, read the latest information from an American journalist, as the defense industry in Russia has now been destroyed, and that's the way we're going. I'm surprised that this expert didn't ask any questions about maintaining a course in Ukraine? Sell! And you know why I'm here six times because there's no telling what bars and cafes and everything, it's next to the market, so this factory is being destroyed. Please tell me how your conscience will tell you, but the destruction of the developing factory, the only one in Ukraine who built the entire Soviet Union, was gathering equipment there. I'll tell you what, it's not my property, it's just my conscience talking to you. I've talked to people about how much this factory was built, how it was created, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, In general, we need to see, privatization is what, destruction or help? That statement by the Ministry, the other people's speech, is the destruction of people who are totally illiterate about what they built with the power of our grandparents' parents and everyone else. Should we not tell the truth that we do not need our children to have a powerful Ukraine? Or should we just sell everything away from toys, restaurants, and markets? If you have a conscience, no conscience, vote in favour of this law and support it. There is a conscience to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u82	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I'm completely in solidarity with Vitali Ivanovich, I've been to this company, and he's telling the absolute truth. What is more, you have heard the speech of the minister of industrial politics, who reported how a factory works, but it needs to be sold. If you answer briefly for what? The question is very simple, it is located near the Petrovka market and there will be no factory, as it will be sold, there will be bars, cafes, restaurants and entertainment complexes. And this enterprise produces the only self - scribes in Ukraine and in the former Soviet Union for airplanes and military and civilian aircraft. Instead, there will be bars, cafes, restaurants that we have enough. Let's privatize what doesn't benefit the state, what doesn't work, what it does, where wages don't pay, where there are problems -- the main pain for the state. Here a normal business needs to be sold, not an enterprise, sorry, sell, sell the area, throw out the presses, throw out 600 workers and do it there, of course. Please, Bondar, and we will vote. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u83	Srp “Sbor”, “Our Ukraine” faction, Bondar Alexander. I'm very much aware of your statement by such an emotional and MP, Mother, but I would like to remind you of what the President's proposal was. In his proposal, the President does not question the sale of the Mayak factory, he points out that when this law was adopted, the procedure was disrupted, the government was not reconciled, and the Mayak plant on all grounds does not refer to enterprises which are prohibited under 5 articles of the law for privatization. "Majaka" is not on the 2007 list of objects, no one is going to sell it. It is only a matter of legal interpretation as to whether objects can be placed in prohibited lists under such procedures. And second, let's look at what's going on at the Mayan factory while it's in state property. And everything you said was already done at the "Mayan" factory and the lease seems to be passing on property, and it's being sold. Let us continue to do so and leave it in the forbidden list.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u84	You are no longer the head of the State Property Fund, fortunately. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, Cibenko. I would like to say, once again, to remind my colleagues that when the privatization process began, there were so many fairy tales. So by privatization, we're going to create jobs, and we're going to feed the market with goods, and we're going to fill the budgets, and we're going to put the wages in, and so on and so forth. I think that today, after more than 15 years of this phenomenon, it has become quite obvious that nothing will happen. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to recent television reports and reports from one of our neighbours' companies, Russia, where AZLK was sold. Indeed, the company was large, with a huge number of workers. Dear colleagues, let's be consistent. Our colleagues from the previous convocation passed this law, let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u86	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u87	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In general, I understand that, as long as we aim to privatize funds into the budget, we will never normally build the economy. This is not the task of the privatization process. The privatization process is a mechanism for finding an effective owner, a mechanism for the owner to organize normal work: jobs, tax payments, budget income. Today, the enterprise operates in a stable, normal, efficient manner. What is the point of privatizing this facility today? And we have clearly decided, in addressing this issue, that we will speak and overcome the veto, vote in favour of overcoming the veto under this law. Alexander Nikolayevich, you don't have to bend your soul, and you have to speak honestly and frankly. It is not that the procedure has been violated or that the procedure has not been violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u88	Yes, please, I see. Not anymore. The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, we really did not understand the situation: Why should a business that is not a business that works for the military complex of Ukraine be privatized? There is no argument here, neither the President nor those who have prepared the veto nor given it. And that's why our faction, the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, denies that we're putting on sale and "pushing on our pockets" factories, which the states first make profits, and secondly, ensure the security of our nation. That's why our faction proposes to defeat the President's veto on this very bill, and we ask everyone to support who cares about the PKK, who cares about Ukraine. And after the vote to announce, Adam Ivanovich, the factions as they voted. I'm talking to the same anti-crisis coalition: enough of you speak and beautiful, and let's vote beautifully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the factions they wanted to speak out. I want to say again, let's remember when we recently adopted the program, or did the list approve the real privatization of enterprises for 2007. And like those who are yelling today that they should be privatized as they were doing at the time. So you're constantly running the same line that you can't. Then you can’t, and today you can’t, because you can see a lighthouse approaching those who want to take it. There are proposals, we'll vote. The first is the president’s motion to reject the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:36:17]] For-189 Factions: Region Party – 166, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 15, socialists, communists – zeros, non-fractional – 4. I'm voting on a proposal to defeat the President's veto. Please vote. [[17:36:55]] For 190 Factions: Party of Regions 5, Block of Timoshenko – 116, “Our Ukraine” – 17, Socialists – 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 2. I'm making a proposal, and I'm putting a motion on the vote to get the law redrafted. Vote. [[17:37:30.]] For-195 Thus, none of the decisions have been taken. The law is, unfortunately, rejected. The only thing that can make us happy is that this company is not listed as being privatized in 2007. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, with Presidential Proposals, Registration No. 0822, is under consideration. Deputy Minister of Economy Musin Ludmila Abdrahmanovna, is Skrnafta. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to prohibit the privatisation of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of the Open Shareholder Association ‘Ukrnafta’. The draft law is not supported for the following reasons. First, in accordance with Cabinet Decision No. 774 of 1998 on the establishment of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, a 50 per cent stake in VAT “Ukranafta”, plus one share, has been transferred to the statutory fund of the NAC National Shareholder Company. And the NAC statute provides that the state-owned stocks and government assets transferred to the company's statutory fund cannot be alienated or held in custody without the decision of the founder, who is the state in the person of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. NAC Naftogaz itself is included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation, approved by the Ukrainian Law on Listing State Property Rights Objects that are not subject to privatisation. Thus, a ban on the privatisation of the VAT package “Ukranafta” and the need for the adoption of a separate VAT law “Ukranafta” has already been established, as this is already provided for by legislation. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council has repeatedly considered laws prohibiting the privatisation of VAT “Ukranafta”. But the laws were not adopted. On the basis of this, the draft law, the law in question, is not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Chechtov from the committee, position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, adopted on 4 April 2006, which prohibits the privatisation of a package of shares belonging to the State in the Statutory Fund of the Open Shareholder Association “Ukrnafta”. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the prescribed law, particularly in view of the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not been involved in resolving this issue by violating the requirement in article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, by which the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the constitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the administration of public property. It is also the third time that the President has imposed a veto with a view to rejecting it. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept the President's proposal and reject Ukraine's Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, you know, the situation is the same as the one before. That's why I think. Yes, please, after a minute Bondar, then the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u95	Alexander Bondar. The situation is not the same, but every enterprise has its own characteristics when the President vetoed it. This object is already on the banned list, and the deputy minister of the economy said so. It is part of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine's statutory fund, which is banned from privatization. Therefore, it is logical for the President to tell the deputies that there is no point in forbidding it. Because it's already actually done. And he made a general observation that the adoption of this law did not take into account the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers. So in order not to make legal mistakes, I propose to support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u96	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, this is a similar situation with the law, which is now actually being broken by the factions of the factions of the regions. It means "Majak". This is the same situation. There is a desire to privatise shares of one of the most profitable enterprises. Shares owned by the State and by which the State is to receive dividends. Moreover, the State should influence such a strategic object as “Ukranafta”. And now again without explanation, without any argument, we're offered to privatize this object and actually distribute the most expensive and profitable shares. And believe me, privatization is not always going to be transparent. As for the arguments put by Mr Bondar that they are now in the statute of NAK Naftogazu. Tomorrow they will not be in the statute of NAK “Naftogazu” and will be quietly dispersed in the pockets of those who will not vote today in favour of overcoming the veto on this law. Our faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, proposes to defeat the President's veto and leave the government's stock package to rest. And don't privatize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u98	Yes, please, Melniczuk. We have the opportunity to hear the voice of the new old MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region The faction has been identified by vote, we will vote in favour of overcoming the President's veto. But at the morning session, I heard a speech by a colleague who said: “So it is necessary not to love your people in order to make such a budget.” I mean, that's how you don't have to love your people to take the last of the people, so you don't have to love them!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u100	He spoke on the subject. For he said, “This is not the way to love, to take away the last.” Mav about “Ukranaftu”. Easy, so you listen. Melniczuk, an experienced MP, knows what he's saying. Yes, Plastinski and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u101	Dear colleagues. The committee decided to support the President's proposal for one reason. This year, for the first time in 15 years of independence, we passed the Act on the List of Enterprises That Are Not Privatized. And that's where Skrnafta came in, rather than being privatized. Neither the State Property Fund nor the Cabinet of Ministers has the right without the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the subject matter in this bill. Such projects will be submitted annually. The committee will review them annually and present them to the Supreme Council as a law. So I ask you not to worry about any of my colleagues, because this object is not privatized in 2007 and for 2008 we will also look and vote. No one is now referring to his privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u102	So far. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I think we are all aware that any decision taken outside the session room is a temporary decision. I cannot help but agree with those colleagues who claim that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, this situation can change. Even then, when this law was voted in the Supreme Council in its previous calling, there was a strong conviction that such fate would overtake this law, for today the smell of oil appeared in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council. We have to understand that. Americans at the other end of the planet are destroying the entire nation for oil. So we need to understand the value of the question. That's why the Communist faction will vote in favour of defeating the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u104	Exchanged thoughts. I'm voting on the President's motion to reject. Your faction has already been told, your faction has already appeared. Reject the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Article 1 of the Law on Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized”, registration number 0822. The President's proposal to reject the law is being voted out. [[5:47:52]] For 226 Offer supported. The law is rejected. The factions. Region Party 160, Timoshenko Yulia Block 4, "Our Ukraine" 56, Socialists 2, non-fractional – 4. A draft Law amending Article 1 of the Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is under consideration. [[0824]] Dear colleagues! For us to lose our time, it's a nicopol ferrosil factory. That's exactly the picture. So let's probably vote. Okay. Two will speak and we will vote. Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the same situation is not the same in the case of the Phoeropolian Ferrosphate. This object is returned to public property by all court decisions. Unfortunately, the holding fund is still unable to obtain a stock package to be resold. If we now decide that this property remains state property, we will not be able to sell it again, pay the former owner’s money back, and put the funds into the budget. Otherwise, if this object is not returned to state property, it cannot be banned from privatization. I think we need to support the President's veto and entrust the Fund with finally solving the question of whose property is the Nicolel Ferrous Plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u106	Okay. Then please, Ludmila Abdrahmanovna, tell me that this is the same situation, because the President is proposing to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u107	Yeah, that's right. The President's proposal is supported for the following reasons: firstly, this enterprise does not belong to public property rights entities, which are not privatised under Part Two of the Law on Privatisation of State Property, which, according to Part Two of the Law on Privatisation of State Property, are not subject to privatization, and not to the fact that the decisions of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 25 July 2005 have resulted in contracts for the sale of VAT shares by the “Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Plant” of 25 per cent and 25 per cent plus one of the shares being declared invalid. As a result of the termination of contracts, the buyers must be reimbursed for the object of privatization. That is, the State budget has to provide for funds. The State Budget for 2006 or 2007 does not provide such funds and is thus considered to be so. The Minister's office believes that the bill is not supported. That's the main task. I mean, that's what we agree with the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. No, it's easy to say and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u109	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We will vote in favour of the veto, and I would like to pay attention to the factions of communists and socialists. Of course, it's nice that you're voting with us to defeat the veto, but you're still responsible for the coalition you've created. I mean, the state property coalition is trying to steal, and you're responsible. In addition, I want to remind you who has a short memory that it was the fact that the factions of the Regions in the last vocation were the authors of drafts for which they do not vote today in favour of the veto, because then, you see, one weather was, and today is another weather, because today they want to take it for themselves. It is also a wonder where the interests of the various political forces in Parliament are united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u110	All I care about is how you know what they did in the past Parliament. Yes, please, who are the socialists? Bubbles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I suggest we do it this way. One of the deputies who has just spoken, give him an hour and a half, and let him speak. Well, maybe we'll finally figure out what to do if you take the word, so say what you have to say. We socialists are against the privatization of strategically important objects. And that's why we're always going to vote in the way that we've defined it in our program. And we don't have instructions from those who now call themselves opponents and so on. We know how to do that, and we've had a lot of opposition before than those who are now forced to call themselves that. So let's vote, and we'll beat the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u112	Let's not take offense at each other. It was easy to say that he was finally voting the way the socialists wanted him to. Please, Plastinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your support in voting on the last bill and again I am addressing you. We considered the bill last year and proposed not to privatize it because there was no law on objects subject to privatization. Since this year he's, uh, accepted it, now he's on the President's signature. Such a law will be passed annually. And so once again, my colleagues, as head of the committee, I appeal to you that there should be no special laws on individual subjects at all. There has to be one law – the law on the list of persons to be privatised. The following year, this object did not become privatized, nor would it end until such people as are on the committee today work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u114	We'll vote. I'm voting on the President's proposal to reject the Law No. 0824 on the Nicolel Ferro-Flying Plant. [[17:54:51]] For 252 Overruled. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The factions? Please. Region Party - 181, Block Timoshenko - 4, Our Ukraine - 62, Socialists - 1, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 4. Re-reading, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, 1176. Kseniya's lap, please, for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank our colleague Krill, who raised this very important question and to report that we have been working on this bill on the committee as a whole. Today he is making changes exclusively to the Patents Act regarding exclusively issues, well, the vast majority of issues of patenting services, the provision of services in the field of gaming business. This is a matter of great concern to the hall, and we're sorting out the questions that can be sorted here today, precisely with regard to patenting. First, where is the patent paid? We're saying that at the location of this unit of the gaming machine or the hall. Second, who pays the patent? We say it's a separate unit or a playroom or a playground. So we're increasing immediately, and there's a potential increase in local budgets from slot machines. In particular, we have also taken into account the attitude of the national MPs on the grounds that slot machines have to be cleaned out of the street and strengthened the licensing conditions that exist. And where there's a condition that slot machines are supposed to be located in rooms, in separate rooms, we've also reinforced that in the patent law, and we've indicated that slot machines are based on a cash win or a property win, that's not a child's vending machine, where kids are playing without money, but it's only for machines that go into the game business. They should be located exclusively in the premises. We also offered to increase the responsibility for a job without a patent. This is primarily important for local budgets. Today, because of the contradictions that exist between the two forms of gaming licensing, where there is licensing, established by the law on licensing and licensed by Minfin, and licensing at the level of local councils, there is this contradiction and there are a number of subjects who behave improperly and do not accept patents. Accordingly, we have established a serious responsibility for patenting the gaming business. And if for all other patents, if the subject works without a patent, he pays a fine exclusively for that part of the activity that he worked without a patent, then for the gaming business we have set a double size of the annual patent, that is, this is a serious responsibility to avoid patentless activity. In general, I can characterize this law that it is sufficiently well-focused on patent issues, potentially has to provide additional revenues to local budgets, and is the first step on how to sort out gambling business issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u116	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, since we have already discussed this bill, perhaps in a short procedure, if anyone has one, we will vote. Baby, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u117	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to answer that socialist MP who tells me I don't know what I'm saying. But you know very well what you're doing. At Kuchma, this Nicopolski Ferrospoline was stolen. Tymoshenko returned him to government property. And today the anti-crisis coalition you're entering is trying to steal it again. So you know what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u118	But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u119	Well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u120	Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u121	Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Of course, a gambling business has some social pressure or social risk, but you can't take it anywhere, because it is. That's why the law is absolutely necessary, and I think it needs to be voted on and the first reading, because there's no current operating licensing conditions, nor does the bill put the conditions for the premises themselves. That's why the bill needs to be redrafted here. It's not just the rooms, it's the appropriate facilities, it's the territorial principle of the placement of the gaming machines, especially the slot machines. The second reading would have to be corrected. I call for a vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u122	Thank you. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, registration number 1176. [[18:00:39]] For-74. The factions. Region Party, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 56, Socialists – 1, Communists – 17, non-fractional – 0. Although, dear colleagues, order is required. We've already sent for work, let's try the next session soon, let's try on the next one. We'll try again from February. Because you have to put order in there. That's right. Sometimes I criticize, and sometimes I tell you what you do right. We need to make a decision about some of the following bills, and one or two of us are going to be able to look at it in a simplified way. Please support the decision to review the reduced procedure. Thank you. Thank you. I can see that the decision will be made. [[18:01:55]] For 296 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection is under consideration. Should we listen to the report or should we vote? I've already gone on for 15 minutes. Vote? I propose to support the President's proposal and to adopt, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Office of State Protection, which, by the way, remains at the same level as now. It's not getting any bigger. Registration number 2658, please vote as a matter of law. The president is defined as an immediate law. [[18:02:47]] For 366 The law is passed. Thank you. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Registration No. 2386. I'll ask the Bulb Committee of Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u123	In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 October 2006, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council considered at its meeting on 28 November this year, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Registration No. 2386 of 19.10.2006 The project has been designed to bring into line with the law a number of other legislative acts, such as Ukraine's laws on the Ukrainian Security Service, on the legal principles of civil protection, on the military rule of law in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and a number of others. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the implementation of its draft law does not require additional funding from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the comments and proposals made. When discussing a bill at the Committee on Safety and Defence, the committee acknowledged that it was possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law should be adopted as a basis. Please consider and support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. No questions asked, summary procedure. Do you want to make a statement? None. Are you in favour or against? Anatoly Kirilovich, give him a hand and I'll vote in the meantime. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u125	Oleg Laszko "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Adam Ivanovich, I'm not against this bill. But I would like to point out to the MPs that the changes proposed in article 44 of the Ukrainian Labour Code are, in my opinion, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, because there is a proposal to pay people, if they are summoned, not two months' average earnings, as is now, but one month's wages. That is, the rights of citizens are narrowed down, which is contrary to article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution. I mean, I think it's worth it here to make sure that the person who goes to the service doesn't lose it. Thank you. I mean, work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u126	That's right, but the pay has gone up, so she doesn't lose. Yes, I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Registration No. 2386. Please vote. [[18:06:28]] For 377 What's the committee's opinion? Maybe right away, is there a note? There's a note. Baby doesn't want to. So it's in the first reading. We should be looking at the draft Amnesty Law right now, but here are two bills, including the author of the alternative bill, colleague school, is on his way abroad and has asked us not to consider this bill today. But if the committee is ready to report, what would be the point? I'm going to the faction, first of all, BUT, not then. Move? Let's move it. Draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, 2473. Dirt. The card's not worth it. Card, c. Yes, please, Panasovsky Oleg Grigorovich. Give me five minutes, not five minutes, you don't have five minutes. You have two minutes, please. I don't care, excuse me, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u127	Let me report back to you. Dear colleagues, in 1994, the energy industry moved to a mechanism of electricity supply that excludes all categories of consumers from paying for it. The role of the energy buffer among consumers, for which a fixed level of electricity prices and fuel suppliers had been maintained, had been attributed. The electricity supply mechanism has led to non-payments and the growth of barter operations. The energy industry was forced to use the current lending of generating companies for fuel calculations. The credit dependency of the generating companies of TEC has become a threat. The amount of the TEC business post was commensurate with the annual volume of products and services they produced. And the most serious problem in all enterprises was the existence of debts, including the mutual responsibility of energy and non-contributory resources. The accounts of the generating company have been blocked, the work of the CES has been paralyzed and accumulated due to non-payments, inadequate prices and chronic debt shortfalls have prevented the financial stability of energy industries and have provoked the bankruptcy of executive production. Noting the people's deputies, throughout the years of our independence, the country's budget gap has been financed through the withdrawal of funds from the energy complex. The situation required urgent action. Law 2711 had been adopted, which included debt cancellations, cross-accountings, and debt restructuring, and the imposition of a moratorium on the bankruptcy of electronic energy actors. The moratorium was imposed with limited duration. Without addressing these problems and without enacting such a law, the State has virtually lost control of the situation in
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u128	The essence of the law is to continue its operation for a year. That's a half sentence. Yes, please have a seat. Is there a need to speak? I won't. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. Registration number 2473. [[18:11:12]] For 227 Copy that. There's a lot of laws going around, let's just take one. A draft Law on Change in the Civil Code on Shareholder Society Management is under consideration. 2182, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u129	Mikola Krutz, “Our Ukraine” faction. Honorable National MPs. The project is designed to address the shortcomings of legislation, order, transformation, and elimination of the executive bodies of the shareholders. The need for such clarification is caused by ambiguous interpretations of the two parts of article 156 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which makes it unclear whether it refers to a collegiate body or a single executive body. Such ambiguity can breed, as is the case with practice, and it often creates difficulties in the functioning and management of stock companies. One such problem is the exclusion from the exercise of authority and the dismissal of a member of the executive body who abuses their authority, acts, and in inactivity violates the rights of shareholders and harms society. The project called for a change in the situation, to limit the mandate for the appointment and release of members of the executive bodies of the association between the general shareholders and the supervisory board of the association, to allow the Supervisory Board to quickly address the issue of ensuring proper management of the company and to take steps to prevent the occurrence of adverse effects on shareholders and associations as a result of the proper exercise of its powers by a member of the executive body. It should be said that the implementation of this law does not require budgetary allocations. In addition, I must point out that the law has a partially anti-rerader assignment, such a fashionable word now, because very often, members of the executive body of farm societies take part in the raiding of farm societies, but shareholders cannot influence it, only they can do it 45 days after the shareholders' meetings. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill can be used as a basis. So I ask you, National MPs, to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u130	Thank you, Mikola Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Melniczuk, please. Mikhail Melnichuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u131	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The faction has determined that we will only support the first reading of the bill because it needs to be thoroughly worked out. I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has actually made their comments, so the authors of this bill need to be thoroughly worked out before the second reading. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u132	Thank you. Vote? I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on Shareholder Society Management. Registration number 2182. [[18:15:14]] For-286 Copy that. Dear colleagues, it will soon be 750 years before Novograd-Wolinski celebrates. If it's your will, let's put it in the agenda and consider the bill of state marking of the 750th anniversary of Novograd-Wolinski, registration number 2671. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. This is the Zitomir region. [[18:15:58]] For 298 It's on. Let's support it. Here's a simple draft of the ruling. To support the initiative, recommend the Cabinet of Ministers, orgcommittee, and so forth. I am voting on the adoption of the Order on the State-level Marking of the 750th anniversary of Novograd-Wolinski, 2671. Please vote. [[18:16:34]] For 299 Thank you. It's been decided. Boki, please, just give me a minute and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u133	Dear colleagues. I could never take a word for it, but you know, I'm tired of hearing this guy talk all the time. How's he doing, Easy, I think, or what? Which is what's in the FACT faction I'm addressing the members of the BIT faction that are here. You know, he's such a dirty person who has a history of murder. And the trial, the horrendous judgment, you understand. He's a fraud, he's just a fraud, and he takes the word and he still sucks at normal people. He doesn't belong here. I understand it's a huge mistake of yours that he's been included in this list. But it's disgusting to hear this talk of a man who has no moral right at all to say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-19-m1.u134	I sincerely thank you for your good, fruitful work today. You and I have worked hard on serious and good bills. Thank you. This evening’s session is closed. Those who wish to speak will do so tomorrow. Good luck. I'll start tomorrow at 10:00.
