ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:36]] 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the age of 57, our colleague, a member of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, died suddenly. Please honor the memory of Vladimir Mikolaiovich for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 18 January 2006. Nine issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review, five bills were adopted as a basis, one bill was designed to be redrafted, and three bills were rejected. Yes, honourable national deputies, I propose to hold an 11-hour meeting of the Conciliation Council with the participation of the leaders, the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions, the representative of the President, the representative of the government and the participation of the Committee on Legal Policy, the rule of law, the parliamentary ethics, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. The issue of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making is now under review. We need to consider three such questions here. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. [[on the Social Protection of War Children]] Registration number 8683, 8683-1, 8683-2. Please vote. [[10:06:32]] For 297 I'm asking you to check why the cards don't work. Nevertheless, the decision has been made. For 297. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a rule of procedure: for the rapporteurs, up to three minutes. I don't think there's gonna be any questions here: it's a pretty obvious question. If you don't mind. From the committee to three minutes. For 12 to 15 minutes, a discussion will take place. No warning? And make a decision. Zibank's microphone, Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to ask you this: the committee on pensioners, veterans and invalids is also a professional bill. And that's why I would ask for three minutes on behalf of the committee. I'm written down, but I want three minutes to report back to the committee on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u3	I think that way, let's do it when we get there. I'll put it to a vote to support the Supreme Council so there won't be any charges against me. Is there no warning about such a rule? Stepanov Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, please. To prepare, Adam Ivanovich, Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u4	Honourable President, distinguished deputies, distinguished voters. I want to bring you back by the time the current state budget was adopted to those disputes that were going around the children of war. You remember that in all budget options there was the 17th paragraph, where it was proposed to stop the operation of article 5, paragraph 7, and article 6, of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children for 2006. In fact, the Act was proposed not to enter into force at all. A compromise has been reached in the last version of the budget, it has been stipulated that 800 million are given to the Act, the decision has been taken, there is a transcript, there is a solution. Regrettably, however, in the published budget text, this provision is that article 5, paragraph 7, and article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children are excluded. In fact, this blocks the operation of article 110, which states: To establish that the benefits to children of war provided for in article 5, paragraph 7, of the Act on Social Protection of Children of War is introduced in 2006 in a step-by-step manner as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. In order to remedy this inadequacy, we propose that article 77, paragraph 17, be excluded. And in article 10, one proposal will be added that social ones will be introduced step-by-step by budget implementation in the first half of the year in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. The thing is, if we don't, the 800 million we voted for won't go to the children of war. Now neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor Minfin have passed any of the regulations relating to the allocation of this money. This proves that they're not going to comply with this decision, and if we let a delay, we won't make the proposed decision, then they'll tell us what you know, you've seen paragraph 17, says that it's stopped. That's why the funds are allocated, but they're not going to go well. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support this bill, and we are expected to have more than six million children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please. Have a seat, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I will be as brief as possible. A colleague of Stepan’s outlined the substance of the problem. I just literally have a few words to remind you that when we accepted the State Budget with you, in the documents before my bill, extract from the transcript when you adopt the State Budget you have, you can read in detail. The point is that I introduced this bill as an alternative for a single purpose. So it's exactly the same as the previous project. That's all I want. So let me make it clear to you that the benefits provided for in article 5 are that children of war pay 25% of municipal services to bring them in from January 1st, that is to say, in the very changes to the State Budget, they're being introduced from January 1st. Article 77, paragraph 17, is deleted accordingly and the following clarifications are made in article 110. Further, to be phased in from the second half of the year, the introduction of an article on the pensions of children, the pensions of children of war, is gradual. Here, I think we have the opportunity to vote as a joint bill only with the clarification that it was from January 1st. Yes, please, a frost of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. As the drafter of the bill, I agree with your proposal, and let us immediately vote without putting it in a long box. It gives a more precise definition, more faithfully, at the time of determining the order of action of this law, and it will be a perfectly correct answer to the questions that voters today are asking about the law on the protection of children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Yes, please, we have another bill from colleague Konovaluk. Is there a Vitali Ilchi? None. Yeah, we'll talk about it? We will. Huh? We will, won't we? Then please, Carmazin. To prepare, who insists on the committee? Zybenko, how did we do? Is there a record? It will be, it will be. It'll be all right. It'll be all right. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u9	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, please be advised that two of the projects have not been reported. In fact, if you put them like this, the difference is that you put everyone next to each other, the difference is very small, but very substantial, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like you to catch as one of the drafters, because you're in predominant condition today, you and the author, you and the session manager. So let's make a difference so you can figure out what mistake you're making with the National Deputy Stepan. You write both of them, Stepanov writes, in 2006, step-by-step according to the results of the first half of the budget, and then in the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Martinyuk writes: It was introduced on January 1, that the fifth article, and the sixth article in 2006, was phased out by the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2006. I mean, you're immediately postponing the execution of another item, the other benefits provided for in the article six. And this is done consciously, and as the budget is now being implemented, you understand after the gas deal, like, it's probably going to be a long wait. What did Konovaluk do? Konovaluk proposed a different edition. There's the same article to clean up, article 77, paragraph 17, to delete as well as in your projects. And in article 110, he suggests making such changes. To establish that the benefits to children of war provided for in article 5, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War has been introduced since 1 January 2006, a dot with a coma, article six in a phased manner during 2006, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. That is exactly how we voted in this room, Adam Ivanovich. And then it changed in a way that was fantastic. So the point is that these are absolutely two huge differences. This is a phased performance, but starting in January of the month, without waiting for the results of six months. So this is the big difference between all three projects, although they're almost the same. So it turns out that, if it's really not about words, but actually taking care of this category of veterans, about the benefits of the children of war, we need to start by adopting Bill 8683-2, introduced by the national deputy Konovaluk, who today did not report this project, that's the first. The other one. I would like to point out that right now, before the Supreme Council, there is a nation full of people who have come from Nicopol. I'd like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u10	Yes, thank you. Vitaly Shibko, are you insisting? Please, out of the way. Vladimir Yavorowski is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u11	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I would like to remind our colleagues that a decision has already been taken during the vote, when we vote on the Budget Act, that there is a 25 per cent benefit for the provision of residential services for children of war, which we have already voted on. And there was just a substitution of concepts, and a forgery was done. So the language goes to today, which we should just do, because there's a transcript of the session, where Suprun reported and in this transcript of the session, it was said that it was introduced and we voted for it, and then some correction came out, which today is canceling that rule. So we must now, without long discussion, accept all of this in accordance with that decision, which was already before the Supreme Council. And what we're talking about today can only be about Article 6, where it was said that there was a need for a step - by - step introduction of pensions. What is involved in the social services is already accepted and voted. And it just needs to be duplicated here to remove the forgery that took place when this document was managed in an incomprehensible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u13	Vladimir Yavorovsky Block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear parliamentarians! Dear voters! In fact, those before me in the rostrum explained the point. And I am absolutely convinced that there will be no soul in this room that, let's say, supported this bill because of that, I'll take the opportunity of my speech just to send to the hall and send a pure psychological sign to those outside this hall. I'd like to remind you and myself that it's hard to say in the land today in our nation of people. Among all generations, it is difficult to name either one generation that would be completely happy. Each of them must have faced severe and tragic trials. Once again, I would like to remind you that children of war are actually a symbolic name. If we're talking about people under 18 years of age in September 1945, I just wanted to remind them that the fate of these people had been wiped out by famine in 33 years, and 37-38 years by Stalin. I mean, maybe it's really the least, the most tragic generation there is today. And if we remind ourselves of the postwar years, when the cows and the cows were plowing and defending themselves, the girls were tied up in defense. Because of this, I am convinced that it is the sacred duty of all of us today. There is no money to run this law immediately. But if they're not there, let's do it step by step. I would just like to thank Alexander Alexander Moroz, and his faction, which initiated and carried the bill on its shoulders. And to those who have submitted today both Adam Ivanovich and Konovaluku, let us vote in favour of this bill and we will have a wonderful start to this day. Julia Timoshenko's block in full stock will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u14	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Clothing, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The “Litvina People's Block” has consistently and consistently advocated that the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of War Children should act as envisaged since 1 January 2006. One of the contractual conditions for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law “On Ukraine’s State Budget 2006 was the introduction of the provisions of the above - mentioned law into the prescribed term. Regrettably, in the light of the budgetary struggle, article 77, paragraph 17, of the State Budget Act, published, has remained the norm for the suspension for 2006 of article 5, paragraph 7, and article 6 of the Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War concerning these benefits. That is to say, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council during the next second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006, a principle decision was taken for absence, even denying by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance that 700 million dollars should be allocated to the benefit of children of war, namely to finance a 25 per cent reduction in the cost of using utility services, gas, electricity in order to limit the average consumption rates by 1 January 2006. The 100 million dollars were also allocated for free travel. In addition, it was decided to increase the level of pension provision for children of war, i.e. to start a step-by-step implementation and article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. But perhaps it would be appropriate to make a decision to start the work on January 1st of this year. That is, from the compromise that was found, the solution was satisfying for all. Yet, the published Law on Budgets, as you can see, surprised everyone as well. So the People's Block of Lithuania calls for support to the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u16	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Peter Stepanovich Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka. Dear friends, by expressing ourselves under this law, we want our voters to understand very clearly what we are talking about. And I want to go personally to the initiators of this bill, especially Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz. Alexander Alexanderovich, you are in the category of children of war. You tell me, please, and to all the Ukrainian people, are you a poor man? You get 15,000 wages, so you're unable to pay utilities? Can I name more than half of the Communist factions, call you? So you're not able to pay for utilities? Or maybe I should call the millionaires who sit here in the Supreme Council and fall under the category of children of war, they're not able to pay for transportation? That's why the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the Kostenka Block and Ivy voted in favour of this law, but only if it is written here that it only applies to low-security categories of citizens. Because millions like you, socialists and communists, can benefit from these benefits from hundreds of benefits to low-income people who do not really know how to pay for community services today. So you have an elementary conscience that you personally extend personal benefits to yourself by covering up for yourself with the Ukrainian people today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u18	Peter Cíbenko, please, Peter Cíbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u19	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Well, first the line. Dear colleagues, the previous speaker, may have confused the salary of the Prime Minister with the salary of the deputy. Well, that's his problem. Now, about the substance of this law. Dear colleagues, on November 18, 2004, there was a long period of restoration of justice in relation to the entire tract of Ukrainian citizens born during the Great Nativity War, or the day before. It ended with the introduction of a new separate status, the status of children of war. I am absolutely convinced that we have restored justice by adopting this law. And that is why I am grateful to the drafters of the bill for introducing these bills. As we examined the committee members, we found out that we are ready, the committee supports all three legislative initiatives, but we think that this idea is more clearly set out in Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's bill, but nevertheless I am ready to support any of these laws. But most importantly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's what I'd like to address you with. The last few years are in ours. This room has a bad tradition – the tradition of falsification of Ukraine's State Budget. Last year, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, the head of our faction, took a hand in falsifying Peter Poroshenko’s budget. Unfortunately, what we're dealing with today is a typical falsification of the draft budget. Because there was a vote in the hall. during the state budget project, the introduction of the January 1st 2006, the introduction of 25 per cent housing and utility benefits from January 1st, 2006. And it was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers from July 1, 2006 to introduce a 30% supplement to the basic pension. This was how the document was voted in the Hall of the Supreme Council. The one who falsified, based on what motives, should be the subject of an investigation into a commission to be created by the Supreme Council. That's what I'm absolutely convinced that we're not making any changes to the budget. We are bringing the National Budget of Ukraine to that version of the budget that was voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting room, which was adopted by 226 votes in favour of Ukraine's national deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u20	Yeah, one minute. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna and then Vladimir Matviychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u21	Dear people’s deputies, you certainly have a decision to make. My job is only to show the risks that the change to the State Budget Act will entail. I want to remind you all that there is no falsification in the State Budget Act on this issue. The State Budget Act provides 700 million dollars for the implementation of this law. Under these 700 million dollars, there are three articles in the State Budget Act, which are reduced to one to implement this law in 2006 in a step-by-step manner. What do the authors of the two bills propose? They propose to abolish article 77, paragraph 17, which means that since January 1, 2006, the law has been in force in its entirety, amounting to an additional cost of 12 billion dollars. Proposals for some adjustments to 110 articles mean that we will have two laws in 2006: one basic law in full and article 110 of the State Budget Act. Please tell me, how should the courts consider the issue if people refer to the courts, when two standards are in force, is the war of two laws? Of course, they will be considered on the basis of a basic law. This will lead to a balanced local budget, which will result in a balanced pension fund, which will lead to unforeseen budgetary effects. And the last. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the introduction of the benefits is fine. But the question arises: “Why did a war invalid who shed blood from Kiev to Berlin himself, but was born not in 1927 but in 1926, so did he not benefit? Why is the rest laid down?" This is contrary to article 24 of the Constitution when individual benefits are granted on a case - by - case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u22	Ludmila Pavlovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think today in the Supreme Council Hall we're just hitting the open door, because the Budget Act makes it clear that the benefit provided for by the Children of War Act in relation to the 25 percent discount on housing and utility tariffs has been in effect since January 1st. And the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to take a decision to determine how such a benefit would be used. So you don't have to go to parliament, you don't have to take responsibility for executive power, it's the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. The law is accurate – from January 1st, this benefit is in full measure. The job of the Cabinet of Ministers was only in the following, as you remember, the Law defines the status of children of war, which benefits from housing and utility tariffs. Of course, it will benefit those who live in the city or, for example, those who live in the village under the gasification of such villages. What about those living in a nearby village who do not use gas, what should they do? He won't get the benefit, he won't get the 25% discount. That's why we insisted that we do the following: in the 51st article, there's a category of mammals: children of war, and that's why there's a 25 percent discount on this category. Second, the Law has been in effect since January 1. Third, there are 700 million to implement the Law. That's right. Our task is to immediately force, demand from the Cabinet of Ministers, personally Prime Minister Yehanurov to punish the guilty for failing to make a draft decision to grant aid to children of war. Our obligations as a parliament to the people of Ukraine to the electorate regarding the implementation of this law have been fully fulfilled. As you know, the Cabinet of Ministers did not make a single copy of the State Budget Act on the first reading, and it was only in Parliament that the Act was put into effect in order to enforce this law, and only in Parliament, after the pressure of the Thrace to work on the budget committee. That's why there's no counterfeiting. We have clearly stated all the requirements that have been discussed here in Parliament in the text of the law -- the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with this law. And we are responsible for this, to say that Parliament is guilty of failing to comply with the law should not. I ask: these laws are important; we have expressed our position as the Committee on Budget Affairs sent the corresponding letters. Let us take a further appeal, perhaps the commission of the Supreme Council: within two days to make a decision regarding the introduction of benefits, as provided by law, from January 1. Hence, there is no need to adopt such laws today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have informed you of the faction's commission on the process of preparing proposals and how reflected it is in the 2006 budget. After that, I sent a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers requesting that the budget committee be reconciled with the corresponding accounts. So I'd like you to listen to what Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun says, considering, honourable colleagues, such a case that the village has half a split: half a village has gas, others use everything else, I mean coal, wood and so on. They don't get any benefits. For reasons of vote, please register for three minutes. I can see it! Well, we're about to finish, I remember Alexander Alexander's replica, I remember. Three minutes, please sign in. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the drafters of the bill and its lobbyists. This bill, like other social legislation, will not work in 2006. To implement it and other laws, we need the GDP of 512 billion dollars, i.e. GDP growth is going to be 28 percent this year. No one believes that, even the orange socialists. Real GDP is going to be about 400 billion, and a deficit is going to be 13 billion, and eight percent is an economic collapse. That's the first one. Two: what is 800 million dollars? 600 million dollars in the budget was going to be provided for a comprehensive energy saving program, you have zero. One hundred and eighty-eight million will be available to combat diabetes, first of all children. We have one million, that's what 800 million is, where we can take them from. And thirdly, this bill provokes and exacerbates social injustice among people of pre-retirement and retirement age, including the lying of our government that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u26	Andrew Pollit, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u27	Andrew Politt, faction of the company. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u28	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko I would like to refer to Mr. Matthewczuk's Deputy Minister of Finance with these words: we have discussed this with you and I ask you not to mislead Ukrainian citizens, because the act of this law is distributed to those Ukrainian citizens who at the time of the end of World War II, that is, on September 2, 45, did not reach the age of 18 and who do not have a higher status. I understand you can switch, no one takes away a war invalid because he has a higher status. So I understand that from the very beginning, the Ministry took a course to bury this Law. It was not possible, now let us mislead Ukrainian citizens. The committee insists that there should be a faction of Communists that this problem must be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u29	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u30	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, the position of members of the People's bloc of Lithuania has not changed. At first, we were in favour of what the country could and should save on anything but its citizens. That is why we voted in favour of the Children of War Act as a whole. We supported budget changes, and we insist today that we often adopt these laws. Because, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers, in all the discussions on the importance and needs of the problems they are dealing with, has not reduced to the implementation of the Child War Act, as provided for in our 2006 budget law. I would therefore like to reiterate that, in the morning, when we discussed the meeting of the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, we decided to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u31	Yes. What, what? What's the offer? What, what? Now, one minute. Replica, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u32	Honorable MPs and radio listeners. Of course, I need to respond to Valery Assadchev's words, and I want to say that. I certainly knew you were, Valery Mikhailovich, but I didn't know you were. And your line about what it takes not to use the benefits, let's say I'm Ivan Stepanovich Plush. It's probably an open door call. We didn't see it coming. But I'd like to say. Over the years, you've licked the current regime and you've licked the same place for this government, and you've reformed it, which has led to the condition of 8 million citizens who are underfunded. And now you're talking about how difficult it is to help them. So in the next Supreme Council, we're going to make an amendment to that for low-income people. It's a shame you won't be in that Supreme Council alone, and you won't support us in that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u33	Ivy Ivan Stepanovich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I support Valery Assadchev's position in that, I emphasize that we should adopt such a law, but point out that this law is distributed to those who have or are within the limits of low security, well, they will come up with such a coefficient that those who refer to the category of low-incomes will benefit from this law and these benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u35	Yes, dear colleagues, the motives have come to an end. Final word to the author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u36	The law. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to have a moment's attention on the points made in this bill. First, if the Cabinet of Ministers in a bunch with our budget committee say that everything is okay, the more it needs to be adopted, because it normalizes this normality, it says that it should be introduced as of January 1, that is, we are helping you, because the Committee can't write any of the obligations of the Cabinet, and the State Budget Act says 60, for 60 days to be appropriate. Secondly, if everything is okay, I repeat, those proposals that make and relate to what it says to the MPs write for themselves, not for themselves, write for those millions of children of war that apply this law. And we don't change the law on children of war, because it's offered by low-security, more secure, these changes are recorded in the law. We are not amending the Children of War Act. We're just saying, changes to the State budget when this law "On the Children of War" is to be implemented. And last remark. For the suggestions of colleague Konovaluk. There seems to be an attractive idea here, but it comes down to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers may not define this order at all and nothing will be introduced within a year. We say that from the second half of the year, it is imperative that it be introduced. And so I propose, with the consent of the drafters of the bill, let's vote in favour of Bill 8683-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u37	Dear colleagues. What, what? To the author, please, Stepanov. No questions asked. For God's sake. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u38	The distinguished President, distinguished deputies, the socialist faction requests all deputies to support this law. What we're about to accept is that we've already discussed it, and we've drawn the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers, who, roughly speaking, simply wanted to survive this money from the people and from the children of war. We have attracted the attention of society – this must be done today, this must be done now. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine asks everyone to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Valérie Assadchev has the right to a replica, his last name was Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to remind you once again, if we now vote in that paper that the authors are proposing, the benefits will go to the millionaires, the millionaires! And we suggest that this law should be in force in 2006, it first came into effect, exclusively for low-income citizens. And that's why we suggest that he be voted to operate in 2006 in those parts that we have foreseen in the budget, but only for the low-security categories of citizens. There's nothing to give to the millionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! They've already exchanged lines, they've already spoken for reasons. I can't, Igor Raphailovich, there are 19 other people here. I'm sorry, I can't. Dear colleagues! The bill was so clear that you agreed to call it off, right? [[Registration number 8683]] Since the proposals are included in the next bill, yes. That is why I am voting, honourable colleagues, on the approval of the entire draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget for 2006. Registration number 8683-1. Change the vote. What? Dear colleagues! I don't want to break the Rules, please don't push me, don't push me. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law, registration number 8683, on the amendment of the Ukraine Act on the 2006 National Budget of Ukraine as a basis. [[10:47:17]] For 263 There the cards worked, the honorary colleagues, I check, the cards worked. By factions, please let's take a look. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. "Regions of Ukraine" - 50, Communist - 54, National Party - 37, "Our Ukraine" - 3, Block Timoshenko - 24, SPU - 29, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, National Block - 19, SDPU (o) - 17, "Rebirth" - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 9, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs - 2, Non-fractional - 8. Now, please make an offer. I beg you, there is no motive anymore, Igor Raphaelovich, I cannot, in all respects, be profound to you. Otherwise, dear fellows, we will not be able to, I beg your attention, because someone will insist and say that he denies, we will not be able to adopt the law as a whole. I can't break the rules. Please, Assadchev, offer. We're voting on her individual proposal. Then we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Here's the deal. We are proposing to the Budget Act that the Children of War Act in 2006 is applied exclusively to low-income categories of citizens. I ask you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u43	Please specify from the committee on this formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u44	Head of the Committee on Retired Persons of War, Disabled Persons Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Listen to me carefully. We have people in society who can get, say, a pension and have the right to retire on various pension schemes. But they get one pension. The same applies to the status of “children of war” is the status. And that's why there's the status of a national MP, there's the status of a war invalid, there's a war participant, and so on. So a person can use one status. Generally, this is the highest status. Therefore, there is no need to vote on the standard that Mr. Assadchev speaks of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Please calm down. Let's do it this way. So that we can now make a final decision, because it can be made as a legislative initiative for second reading. So I'm going to put this motion to a vote right now and the Supreme Council is going to be determined by a vote and that's it. I'm voting on Valery Assadchev's proposal to add to the law that applies to low-income citizens. Please make up your mind and that's it. [[10:50:07]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'm in factions. Take it easy on the factions, please. Calm down, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 31, Communists – 0, People's Party – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 38, BUT – 29, SPI – 23, National Block – 0, SDU(o) – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 11, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Orders” – 8, “Only Ukraine” – 8, “non-fractional” – 10. Please, everyone, calm down, please. The card doesn't work? Sulkovsky doesn't have a card, please check. All of it. No, we agreed, dear colleagues. You don't have to. Dear colleagues, we agreed, I'm voting. You don't have to. Please. Valerius Mikhailovich, we have an agreement with you. So what? I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Act as the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006. Registration number 8683-1. Identify yourself, please. By the way, dear colleagues, I'd like to say that at the Conciliation Council on Monday you didn't object. What are you accusing me of? Don't yell, please. I'll put it to a vote. Voting, please. [[10:51:45.]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 29, Communists – 55, People's Party – 31, "Our Ukraine" – 1, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPI – 29, National Block – 22, SDPU (o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, "Rebirth" – 9, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, "Reforms and Order" – 0, "Only Ukraine" – 9, non-fractional – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda and decide on draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[10:52:52]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now, one minute! What? Let's check it out. “Ukraine” - 51. Well, I'll tell you now. Well, let's check it out now! “Regions of Ukraine” – 51, Communists – 40, People's Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 9, Block Timoshenko – 18, SPI – 3, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Block – 22, SDPU (o) – 18, “Rebirth” – 1, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 1, “other factions – 7. Dear National Deputies! Well, can I have your attention for a minute? What is it? It is about the Central Electoral Commission’s proposals that people be given the opportunity, which for various reasons did not come to the list when the relevant documents were presented, to the court’s decision, to take part in the vote. That's the first one. And the second. In view of the large number of participants in the election race, the big ones will be ballots and analyses that have been carried out show that up to half of the population will not be able to vote physically at the polling stations. So it's proposed to increase voting time from 7 a.m. to 23 p.m. Let's talk about maybe upgrading, or we can change the voting time. It's a normal decision that we break our spears around. I am voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. Please vote. [[10:55:12]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 60, Communists – 48, People's Party – 40, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 32, SPI – 2, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 2, industrialists and entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” – zero, “Only Ukraine” – 8, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Such regulations are proposed. A report on behalf of the committee will be made by the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Vladimir Bondarenko. Is there a Volodymyr Dmitrovich? Then we will ask the distinguished colleagues to speak with the Head of CBC to clarify our position. And after the need arises, we will come to a discussion. No warning? Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Well, it's very hard to work. Let's calm down. We voted exclusively to return to the agenda. Now we have to put it into the agenda. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, please vote. About the turn-on. [[10:57:00]] For 229 Decision taken. Vladimir Dmitrovitch, please Bondarenko. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. We'll have reason to be devastated. I'm asking you to calm down. Please check to see why the system doesn't work. Secretariat, please. Volodymyr Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u46	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear friends, yesterday the committee considered two bills that came to the fore and related to issues related to elections and legislative changes. The first of these, which has registration number 8719, submitted by the People’s Deputy, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin, refers to the time-limits for voting on the day of the vote. The point is that article 66 of the Law “On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils of Rural, Rural, Urban Heads” and the Law “On the Election of People’s Deputies” states that the vote is held from 8 to 20 hours. A proposal came from the author of the bill to change that position and write it down in the law from 7 to 23. The bill was discussed on the committee. And as a result of the discussion that took place there, we've reached what is left of 7 hours, not 23 hours, but 22 hours. That's how the committee defined itself. As the Supreme Council Hall will determine, that's your position. But the committee was determined to do so by 10: 00 p.m. It's about this bill. Regarding another bill submitted by the national deputy John Vernidub, and then after a discussion on the committee, it was supplemented by the authors. It refers to two basic positions. One of them develops the positions that relate to the elections in cities that have other councils within them, especially in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where there are other cities within cities, as well as villages and villages, and the election system in different administrative units is different: in cities they are proportional elections, in villages and in villages they are major elections. And so there's a situation where these things have to be settled. In particular, with regard to party submissions, party submissions to election committees, proposals for candidates. The point is that this bill gives the authority of the municipal parties in this case the right to submit candidates, both to the city level of the city of district subordination and to the level of the cities of others who enter and are in the territory of this administrative unit, villages and villages. So this simplifies the system a little bit, because we don't have a branched system of party organizations today, for example, in Crimea and cities like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u47	Give it a chance, because two bills are reported to be completed. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u48	So this proposal came up, and, I think it has a logical basis, and the committee supported the bill in this part. Another part of the bill refers to a more controversial problem, the possibility of adding to the voter lists not only in advance, but also in the days before the vote. It's about that. That today legislation provides for the availability of lists of voters who are now being posted for consultation, but there may be a situation that, on the day of the vote or a few days before the vote, there will be a need for a person to renew his voting rights. That's why it's a very big question, once again, counterversive, because it can give, in terms of respect for a person's right to vote for a candidate, for a political power or for some distortions of the electoral process, because on the day of the vote, it's possible to move from one place to another or to a neighbouring electoral office and re-enact their right several times. This has been observed for some time in these elections in different regions -- both in the west and in the east -- so this has been a matter of more debate on the committee. At the same time, the committee was still drunk with support for a position on the settlement of the issue on the day of the vote. That is, three hours before the end of the vote, it is possible, more faithfully, three hours before the end of the vote, to refer a hundred of them to the electoral lists of a particular citizen. I think that we need to discuss further here in the Supreme Council Hall, there are different opinions, and even as an author, one of the authors of this bill, after some discussions today, I have doubts that we should thus delay on the day of the vote until the evening itself, until three hours before the end of the vote. So maybe we'll look at this another way. But the committee decided to support both positions of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there likely to be questions for Vladimir Dmitrovitch? If you have one, please sign in for three minutes. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Anatoly Orzhachowski, please. 11:0:20
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. The Communist faction with understanding refers to both the Central Election Commission and the National Deputies to improve existing legislation on the election of national MPs. And when we talk about specific proposals, I'm a member of the Committee, where our reporter reports from, the position is: in the first bill, it would be worth listening to and probably with seven to 22 hours, really, time to vote, and so that's enough, we'll take into account the position that would be good for the electorate and for the commission. With regard to the second bill, it would be wise to consider the issue of whether it was for the courts alone. Why not let the commissions decide on this fate? And if anyone is not satisfied, then please refer to the court, and the problem may be solved. So I suggest we move on to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u51	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u52	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. On both proposals. Please tell me, don't you think it's possible when we're talking about extending voting time, and that's right, because the queues that exist might add time and somehow simplify the situation? Because at large polling stations, people may fail even in this regulation. I mean, could it be possible to put into law and other rules that would allow people to vote more quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u53	Thank you. This question was discussed. We considered that voting would be different from voting on those ballots where there were only candidates for the Presidents of Ukraine. It was a little easier there. Indeed, this vote will include several ballot papers, both to the Supreme Council and to local councils of different levels. But nevertheless, from seven o'clock to twenty-third principle, I think we're adding time seriously: there's one hour down there, top of the hour. And another thing is, then the vote count has to be somehow made sure that within the physical capacity of a human being they are. Because members of the commission who come at six o'clock still have to work until 24 and then by morning, counting. Well, I think there's a balance of interest here for both the voters who can still find time for this day and the members of the commission that we should respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u54	And Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, faction of “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u55	Lilia Grigorovich. Today, Holy Waters, and I think the presence of the holy water in our Parliament would not be a hindrance. I'd like a word with Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u56	Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, microphone. Our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u57	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. I join Lily Grigorovitch's greetings. And the question is the following. Now, we already know that more than one and a half million names, not voters, are already excluded from the electoral lists by the Central Electoral Commission. That is, if we let the divisional commissions be included on the day of the vote to write, we won't be able to re-energize electoral tourism. How serious is this threat? This is the first question. And as for the continuation of the vote, it makes sense, but there was only a problem because we disagreed with the President's well-designed proposals on the four-percent barrier, then there would be fewer election lists and less time would have been needed for the electorate to determine. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Well, the problem of the four percent barrier is a slightly different problem. I think she has less to do with it. And as to what may be a miscalculation of the list, I have already said that on the day of the vote, just on the day of the vote, there may be such metamorphosis with this list of voters that will be caused by local movements, or even serious regional movements of certain masses of people who vote in one place and then renew their right to vote elsewhere. That could happen. Sadly, however, there is another feature that relates to the human rights that has actually arrived on that day and also wants to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. Now, Jaroslav Vasilovich. One minute, if you can, the Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich, is the decision of the committee to speak with a special mind on these bills by Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, and then we will ask the head of the CBC, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the opportunity to speak. Yuri Klukkowski, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Dear colleagues, we are considering two different issues, including three different ones, that apply to the various components of the Election Laws. When it comes to increasing voting time is absolutely justified, because we refused to get a divorce, we made it difficult to vote on a few ballots. We remember the situation in 2002. And we agree to increase the voting time. The only thing I'd like to take into account is that under the law, 45 minutes before the start of the vote, there's a committee sitting. Let us consider: Is it worth forcing people to come to the commission at six in the morning? Or perhaps for at least half an hour, they will be able to start voting at 7:30, for example, before 10: 30 p.m. By not reducing the total time of voting, remove it from the morning for half an hour. As for the second problem, it is far more serious. It is known that this law provides for the early compilation of electoral lists. These lists of voters are now composed and are undergoing a process of refinement. Moreover, the representatives of each faction that is now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine have received the official databases of these electoral lists and can now verify them. So it's not just an electoral initiative, it's not just an initiative, it's an initiative, it's an initiative, it's an authority, it's a public one. And so we hope that this is a sharp decline in the number of voters that means bringing these voter lists to reality. However, I would like to point out that allowing changes to the voter lists on the day of the vote, from my point of view, means breaking down the entire voter list control system. The point is that the courts should not simply make decisions on the basis of a statement to anyone who has applied, but they should check that the voter is single-handedly included in the voter lists. Is it included elsewhere where he may have voted by the time he applied for trial? It is not technically possible to verify this on the day of the vote. Therefore, the courts will delay the decision. This will not solve the problem, but will only exacerbate the conflict. I want to emphasize once again that the court should do this even by addressing the working groups of voters, or foreshadows of the registering authorities. And the last. We must remember that local elections take place at the same time. If we confuse local elections and mix electoral lists there, we will even violate the territorial community's right to choose our own leadership. So I ask very careful consideration of this second part of today’s drafts. I propose not to change the system of counting voter lists, especially that the proposal for a division commission to make this decision is not possible at all. Because the district election committee can't stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u61	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. I invite you to address the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for allowing me to have a moment with you today, once I was dragged to this rostrum, now I'm asking myself, but you're not inviting me. And in general, it's time for a little bit to exchange information on how to prepare for the election of Ukrainian and local national deputies, because there are a lot of organizational issues along with the political issues that you decide. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you these drafts that you're considering today, and let me express the point of view of my colleagues, because we've been exchanging our thoughts before our meeting with you. First of all, I'm going to show you a sample of the ballot today, now. You admit there are 45 parties, 19 blocks and the rest -- political parties, 5 and additional documents are on trial in the courts of those that we 8 refused. We refused for reasons of late payment of the money pledge, as well as some parties, to those who included fewer than 18 candidates. To date, cases are in court and are not finalized, and today it is difficult to say in the state how many subjects of the electoral process will be on March 26, but 45 and so on. Here's a ticket, 80 centimeters, a model of a ballot. Here you go, dear fellows. Okay? And these other ballot papers will be almost the same size by election to district councils, city councils, or local councils. The voter will have at least five towels, but not embroidered, in his hands. And when we raise the question of the continuation of the voting period today, I want to remind you of a good example of the recent last Polish Republic, where a guard slept in one area, this guard, 40 minutes later, elections were opened in that area, and 40 minutes later the vote was extended throughout Poland. You can see how serious these issues are in people’s minds. And today, really, we know from the experience of 1998, 2002, that in the big cities where the polling stations were filled with 3,000, and 2,500 did not run far, the vote concluded that 200-300 or more people were going home without taking part in the vote. And the Central Election Commission supports, but it supports, at the same time, really, in the morning, maybe at six o'clock in the morning, in 45 minutes, the session begins, to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u63	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u64	It's like we're in transport. In the evening, we asked to continue voting until 11: 00 p.m. And you don't have to be afraid, they're going to be counting the lengths that they're going to have six for every election evenly. The first information will come to us in a period not earlier than the Central Election Commission, the distinguished national MPs. And I urge you to continue until 11:00. Now the second one. As far as I'm concerned, honourable national deputies, I ask you to continue voting and listen, that's the reason. The other one. As far as the voters' lists are concerned. Today, in fact, there are fewer than 1 million in the state of labor groups included in the lists. Believe that they are in some way regulated today. There are a lot of doubles today, they're working on them right now. By February 6th, at least this procedure should be completed. And I propose, on behalf of the commission, that the local elections be absolutely free, that the local community should adjust its lists to the local elections. [[We agreed, at least.]] And in the election of Ukrainian national deputies, allow courts, administrative courts to apply for passports on the basis of no constituencies, no territorial commissions, just courts. Because there will be, you'll understand how accurate the voter lists would be, there will be people who won't be included in the lists, and I wouldn't want the commission, including the Central Election Commission, to be a hostage on this issue. It's only the election of the national deputies. And only the National Courts of Appeal will be able to make that list immediately in the evening. According to it, we will gather additional information all over Ukraine, and we will know how many of these people. But only at the level of the election of Ukrainian national deputies. I ask for changes to the voters' list in local elections, for a closer court hearing of requests for inclusion or non-involvement in local elections, and for other changes, I support that. Since it is clearly necessary to regulate the number of candidates who can be registered. And make a change to the second part of this sentence, where it's proposed. I'm asking you to support those bills in that section, one of them really was the initiator of the appeal and the Central Election Commission. And taking this opportunity, I, my distinguished colleagues, inform you that at 16 o'clock today, the Central Election Commission is starting drawing up district election committees. We had a meeting yesterday. The 13 political parties were absent at that meeting. These are representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, and this is how they think about forming future committees. You are the leaders of the political parties, the coordinators, I ask you to send today 14 hours before the committee of your representatives so that we can form the committees, and then there were no groundless complaints from those persons who would not even allow us to come to this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u65	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich, sit down, please. Please sign up for three minutes. Ivan Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u66	Dear Verni Dubov “Regions of Ukraine”. However, what you're saying is that the election lists for the national deputies allow the court to look at the election day, and in the locals, you're not saying that there's going to be any difference. What is the difference here that can really affect?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u67	Mr. Verni Dubov, I respect you as a lawyer, great to the point. But you know there will be citizens who have changed places of residence and will not be in the territory of their community. The question is not relevant to them, and for more than six months they have been in another inhabited area, and for one reason or another they cannot be included in the voter lists. When they prove it, they may be asked questions. And by the local elections and the rest, in a deaf, remote village where there is no transportation today, it will be on election day and will not reach the district center where the court is located. Let's really look at things. And those who have changed their seat may turn, but to predict, I would like to stress once again, that the Central Electoral Commission should be informed, and therefore all the grass-roots committees should be informed of the number of such appeals to the courts, the more faithful decisions taken by the courts, and the additional inclusion in the list so that we can actually have a picture in the election results. And there was no insinuation that this was some kind of technology used.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u68	Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Maria Marcus, Communist faction. I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of the faction of Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u70	George Ponomarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u71	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Jaroslav Vasilovich, one question. You will now confirm that every time we vote, we have over 200,000 voters voting with passports from the former Soviet Union. This requires a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers. So you're asking if we're giving a mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers today on this issue. This time. And secondly, we spent millions, tens of millions of dollars on these previous lists of voters that they made up. I understand there will be some inaccuracies. But it seems to me that the territorial commission will grant the right, the territorial commission, and if the territorial commission does not agree to grant the right, then it will be through the court to list the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u72	Dear Georgi Grigorovich, first of all, the answer to the first question. We're on the same rakes year after year. A year before the election, we work in the state to ensure that passports are exchanged, but A is there now. Unfortunately, no one changes these passports, no work is done, I mean, the local authorities and the competent authorities that are supposed to do it, and from two to three weeks before the election, the Central Electoral Commission is again going to continue to operate long overdue, long ago, which has become a rudimentary passport. So please, this time, settle this issue in the Supreme Council in front of the Cabinet of Ministers and not only allow it, but first do it in two months' time. Because enough, as far as I know, because I've been talking to representatives of this department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, passport forms are enough, just the will of the local authorities and those voters to exchange them. I'm asking you to solve it much faster, not again, not in the last few days to put the Central Election Commission in some awkward position and to deal with the issues that are inequitable to the commissions. As for the other question, really, I'm saying, lists are made up of authorities, authorities, the Central Election Commission is just controlling. But in order to rule out possible non-inclusion on individual lists, I emphasize cases, allowing courts, administrative courts, to resolve those issues, because this is the norm in the Code of Administrative Justice. It contradicts even if the Law “On the Election of People’s Deputies”. And commissions are not allowed, commissions can do that, commissions can do that in two days, and in an exceptional case, people have the right to go to court, and I'm asking them not to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u73	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Thank you. Dear national deputies, regarding the increase in voting time. It was proposed from 7 to 23 hours and asked for support from the Central Election Commission. What, what? We will vote separately on each bill. No, we'll vote separately on each bill. I told you. What about the discussion? Please, let's have a discussion for 15 minutes. But I'm asking the leaders of the MP factions and groups to meet on the third floor. Adam Ivanovich, with your permission, will continue the organization of our work. Please, Adam Ivanovich. Please. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, to the rostrum, please. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Electoral Block. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to ask you a few questions. When we adopted laws, we understood where and how there were gaps in these laws. And they asked these questions. But now I want to draw your attention to something that no one has been paying attention to. We have written down with you that changes to this law, or electoral law, may be made in the final positions no later than 240 days before the election of Ukraine’s national deputies in 2006. Except for the provisions relating to the conduct of pre-election agitation, to which changes may be made no later than 120 days before the election of Ukraine’s national deputies in 2006. How are we going to get out of this college, out of this norm? I have a question for everyone, including the head of the Central Electoral Commission. Either there's some stability in our country or there's no stability. Or we're going to be gathering the Supreme Council here and making a decision directly on March 23 this year, but let's write a tail number that in as many days as you're now proposing, in 45 days, write it down. That's not true in 240 days. Then we may move on to the fact that, on some level, we will cancel the proportional system, and we may get there. I mean, we can get to the mice that way. Dear people's deputies, I'm sad to see how we're doing with the adoption of the bill, it's just sad. We've got proposals coming out of the voice. Now that there was a proposal that only the few were provided, we didn't put it to the vote. What we need to put to the vote. I mean, we have double standards. Now, with regard to the continuation of proposal 8,719 of the bill. It's time to increase from 7 to 23. Now we're going to increase it by three hours. What, then, is the need for an immediate three - hour period? An hour early to begin and two hours later to finish. I think it's right that the committee recorded it in 22 hours. Why? Because when it ends at 23, it's time to count, and then it's night, and the board members are women. And then what happens? So I think it's appropriate for the committee to record it by 22 hours. If we agree, that's as much as we can go. That's the first one. And the second. If there are higher commissions today, they have a colossal issue to settle. There is no colossal issue, then let the people go to trial. Why we send a person to court for the exercise of the right to vote. I'd like to return yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u75	Mikola Rudzkowski. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u76	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the falsification that has been and can be carried out during the elections takes place at night. And if we now run the count by five in the morning, we definitely know that counterfeiting will take place in some areas. We have to bear in mind that the members of the district commission go there on a voluntary basis, they're not slaves who will sit on ballots for 24 hours. We need to count the local elections and the elections to the central authorities. And that's why we, the socialists, call for better organization and more efficient work of the district commissions to ensure, but by 11 o'clock of the night, we don't continue. If you continue to do so for hours, you can start early, but by no means at night do you make a count of the votes. This is the first time. It's different. You can't get disorganized on the day of the election of people who can vote. If we follow this path, we will not be able to organize a proper electoral process. And so, socialists, we ask for less involvement in electoral legislation, let's act within the framework of existing legislation and prepare elections in a way that they can go through in an orderly and timely manner. I want to say a few words before the law that was discussed earlier. It pains me to see a session hall vote 238 votes or 240 votes in favour of the Children of War Act. These are the people who, in their own time, survived the war in non-human conditions, under occupation conditions, then revived the entire Ukrainian economy, which was then adopted by the oligarchic groups, and now they have no State support. And some national MPs say that we need to put everything at risk. So let's be honest and raise the level of undersupply from 400 dollars to 1,000 dollars. Now look at the price of utilities, the price of meat, milk, other foods, and then it can be said that all of this can be put at risk of under-supply. Otherwise, it's just speculation with one goal so that pensioners who have survived that terrible time can't normally live their lives. It's just an inhumane approach. And I don't know how a faction can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u77	Basil Nadragha, get ready for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u78	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, speaking of these bills, I would like to express my interest in the members of the People's Block of Lithuania. We believe that, unfortunately, the organization of the voting system in our country does not withstand any criticism. And if we remember with you the presidential elections, the 2002 elections and all those held in independent Ukraine, then the vast majority of them were in a situation where there was actually a Babylonian pillar in the polls. Crowds of people who were unable to move into small rooms, poor number of ballot boxes, insufficient number of urns had led to the fact that a large proportion of the population in selected polling stations had not been able to vote for 40 per cent of those who wished to vote. Therefore, it is only natural that we, as members of the People's bloc of Lithuania today, have stated that we are ready to support the two bills because we believe that they offer the opportunity of the majority of the population wishing to vote down, to vote in normal conditions. Here the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission has shown the size of the ballot papers, and this is also a problem. And it seems to me that when we talk about what needs to be done, we should not forget with you that the problem is that there is still space on the polls at all, that there are equipped booths in the amount that will be equal or proportional, because the number of voters on different sites is large. Therefore, an extension of the voting time of three hours and more to the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania for. On the day of the court vote, we, members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, “for” are to be added to the list of voters. One suggestion: We propose that the bill introduces a rule that the court will take this decision on the basis of a note in the passport on human rights. Because if a person is going to go away, he has to solve his problems in advance, and if a person lives and votes in a place of residence, then the court has to take that into account, because it seems that this may be such a restriction in the form of falsification. In general, once again, I would like to say that the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania are to create more normal conditions on the day of the vote for our voters, because there is a declaration of the people and there is democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u79	Please, John the Rabbit. Prepare Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u80	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop in our destructive activities. We understand the technological motives of the CFC, but because of these changes, we're going to produce too many negatives in our electoral legislation. Why will we vote against all these laws? First, we must live by the law. The law should be the same for all citizens and for the Supreme Council. Here Karmazin said that there is a limit: 240 days to change. We're out of this limit. Do you remember how we used to contribute to the media? Then we voted for the changes, the president signed, and then we put it in. If we make changes not under this procedure, it is a gross violation of legislation, and it will be done by those who vote for these changes. The other one. We're talking about extending the voting time. This means that the members of the district committees will already be “ready”, I mean at 23 o'clock. [[in quotes]] And the count of votes is going to be overnight. These are the steel methods of calculation. No one controls anything there, the fakes will be massive and thorough. That's why we think, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka, that the changes to this legislation are made only by one reason: to provide a base for the falsification of elections, and there is nothing else to do with it. Third. We have to think about what we're going to do when we make these changes. Because we were amending the Code of Administrative Justice, which said that complaints to the court were filed not later than two days later. There are no such changes. Thus, by amending this legislation, we violate the administrative code. In addition, we are amending the Laws on Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, but we are leaving legislation unchanged on local self-government. And as a result, we're giving birth to colossals. I mean, no matter how we roll, no matter what we do, we see that there are absolutely no proposals for improving voting technology. Here are some suggestions just to create conditions for the Laws to be broken again, for people to make choices from a position of power and from a position of money. Therefore, honourable national MPs, the Ukrainian National Block urges you not to vote for these changes. We urge you to abide by the Constitution and the Laws -- that's the best thing you can think of, otherwise it'll be destabilisation, otherwise we'll create contradictions, the courts won't execute their powers, and we'll say later that the elections didn't take place properly, that the elections should be annulled, and so on. We don't have to think about our voters so badly. If we vote in the morning, they'll deal with those ballots, we've seen it all. This is all done to fake. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy invites you all to take responsibility and not vote for these changes. We will abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u81	Yes, Assadchev, can't I see? Ivanjo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, today we are considering two bills that have been tabled by one head. The Supreme Council, the second is our colleagues. First on the date of the election on March 26th of the current year, about time. And the second in relation to other changes reported by our colleague Bondarenko. As for the first question, there are many doubts, there are many thoughts. But remember the elections in 2002, when at 20 o’clock the doors were closed at polling stations. No one else was allowed. And a lot of people were in polling stations that only allowed them to vote. And a lot of people who couldn't vote on the street, that's outside the polling station. What does this talk about? This tells us that in very many cases, the polling stations aren't equipped, they're temporarily fit for voting. That's the first one. This is a serious problem. Another problem. These are large lists, and there are six in the village, in the rural area, in the village. There are as many as six lists, including local elections. So it takes extra time. But you don't have to drag it into the night. And so yesterday, the committee decided to vote by 22 hours to allow all of our voters to vote. And the next question is about changes to legislation. It is certainly bad that we are at the last minute, making changes to the legislation in force at the last minute. It's not good anywhere. But we must take into account the interests of our constituents. And it should be taken into account that, as qualified, we make lists and allow our voters to find themselves on these lists or to stand down for their constitutional right to choose, as appropriate, to teach their constitutional powers. So I'm asking you to support these two bills. And in the first question, support the committee's decision on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u83	Thank you. One minute, Orzhachowski, please, from the site microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I have many positions of support for colleagues who have expressed and supported the proposal of the national MPs that changes should be made to the current legislation on the election of national MPs. I would also like to disagree with the opinion of the head of the Central Electoral Commission that only the courts can decide whether or not to vote. either they're on the list or they're not. I want to ask and say, what about in the village if there's a missing person? Is she supposed to be looking for a way to get to the village? There's no bus, no second or third. That's ridiculous. It would be worth having a head, a deputy, a secretary, usually representatives of different political parties to decide on that fate. Another point is that the commission won't be able to organize at six o'clock. You need to get it together, you need to get it right, and you can figure it out. And about
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. The only thing I'd like to pay attention to before the vote is one moment. Some of the speakers said that we had initially changed the deadlines for change, sent it to the President, signed it, and then made changes in the media. I remind those who may have forgotten, we made these changes at the same time. That is to say, the Law on the Election of People's Deputies on the media has been amended, and these changes have changed with regard to the deadlines for change. Not 240 days, but 120 days for the media. So I think it would be logical for us to now, if we adopt these laws, propose the same change to these changes that in 240 days, except for changes that apply, for example, to voting terms that may be applied later. I'll put it to a vote. We'll put these laws to a vote. I am voting on the adoption of a law amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the time of the vote, registration number 8719. Time from 7 to 23. Please vote. [[11:43:52]] For 155 There was a proposal for a profile committee and a part of those who participated in the discussion and supported it in order to make changes, not from 7 to 23, but from 7 to 22. From 7 to 22. So this is the proposal I'm going to put to the vote. Again, Slata Viktor Andriyovich. I remind you once again that the request: the committee when it's ready, if we finally accept it, we will now vote to change the deadlines for change. What's 240 besides the vote change? We've figured out what else we're going to have to do here. In 45 days, there's here, okay. I'm voting on Law 8719, 7 to 22. Please vote. [[11:45:13]] For 249 From 7 to 22 hours -- 249 people's deputies voted for this decision. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 60, Communists - 55, “Our Ukraine” - 16, National Party - 39, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 2, National Block Lithuania - 22, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, “Rebirth” - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 2, “Reforms and Order” - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 7, “One Ukraine” - 9, non-fractional - 11. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the exercise of the electoral rights of a citizen. Registration number 8687-1. With regard to changes to voting lists. [[11:46:25]] For 181 There was a suggestion, be careful, there was a suggestion to make this change, which concerns making decisions about what Nadrag People's Party made, that the courts decide on the basis of a passport indicating his residence. This is the amendment I am putting to the vote on the adoption of a law amending Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the electoral law of citizens, registration number 8687-1, as amended by Draga, please vote. [[11:47:21]] For 207 Not accepted. Wait, there was another offer. There was a proposal by the national deputy of Orzhachowski, who suggested that such a right should be given to change the lists to the commissions themselves. Please vote. [[11:47:56]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Yeah, I see you've got your hands up, sign up, with a motive of three minutes. And we'll move on. Let's make it five minutes. Sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Ivan Verni Dubov. Prepare Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u86	The “Regions of Ukraine” faction. Respectable comrades! We are now making a huge mistake by not allowing a person the right to fulfil his constitutional duty, the right to vote. Why we don't understand it at all. See, it is illogical in the law to prohibit him from voting on the day of his arrival on the site and not on the electoral list, to prohibit him from seeking judicial protection. How can we do this? I call on all the people's deputies, let's put ourselves in this electorate's place, and here's all the talk that man doesn't want to go to court and so on, let's at least theoretically leave that right to any person, any Ukrainian citizen, its constitutional. I propose to vote, return to this law and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u87	Anatoly Orzhachowski. Prepare Alexander Bandurzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Again, I appeal to the national MPs, and I agree with my colleagues that what we do not support is that every voter should vote if he is missed on the day that it's worth it, it's not. So I repeat that, really, a person's right to do that. The other one. With regard to the commission’s right to decide the fate of the individual. There are representatives of various political parties. I repeat, three leaders, a secretary, a head and a deputy can, if everyone else is working, make this decision. Most people in practice rarely turn to the courts, and the fate of the judge is decided by one. How to go from village to village and decide to give him the right to vote, come and come back and so forth. So I would ask once again very carefully to address this issue, to listen and give the commission the right to allow the electorate to vote on this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u89	Alexander Bandurka, please. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u90	Alexander the Bandur, faction of the People’s Party. Dear colleagues! Of course, the changes to the Law “On Elections of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine ” must be adopted. We must maximumly promote every electorate to exercise his constitutional right. I can see that the most appropriate time was for the vote to be set to 22 hours. The other one. A document that testifies to a person’s identity and is the basis for talking to him and accepting his petitions is a passport bearing a mark. And the third. The committee should also consider discussion issues. How much we love our fair and humane judgment, ordinary citizens, I think they know. Who will travel 40 or 50 kilometers from the village or from the hamlet in court? You have to give it to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u91	Lilia Grigorovich. Prepare Vitalia Korjou.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u92	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, and the course of this discussion in the session room, and the voting process gives me reason to say that it is time to stop. For some reason, in solving these questions, we forgot about the most important subject of the election, the Ukrainian people. And I'm allowed to say that after the Orange Revolution, it's not a mindless, it's not an intelligent population, it's a civil society. And this electorate hears everything very well, understands and sees, and monitors both his mind and his heart. You want to know what the most important executive organs in the executive society are, I'll give you his name. It's not an administration, it's not even a TVC, it's a person, it's a person, it's a person, it's a citizen. That is why today’s discussion will move our hearers to take personal interests and rights into their own hands. I mean, the voter lists are up, and people have enough time not to go through the courts on the last day, but to get voters right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u93	Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Vitaly Corge, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'd like a word with Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u95	Please, it's Andrew School's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u96	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. I would like to emphasise, firstly, that while voting for the continuation of the possibility of voting in the next election by 22 hours, it will be very difficult to control at this point, especially when the vote will take place so late at this time when it is dark enough quickly enough. That's the first one. Next. The problem will be with the exit pool. Nevertheless, it was good for us to make that decision. But look who voted together: the Communists voted, our Ukraine, the Party of Regions. It's somehow going to be a similar alliance. It's also called a blow to the back of electoral democracy. But that's not what we call it, because it happened, I want to be sure, by accident. So please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u97	The conversation is over. The only colleagues, Alexander Markovich, we have already passed the law that the vote will be from seven to 22 hours, so that it is no longer to be spoken of, it is already accepted. We're just waiting for the signature. Now it's about a law where two constituents, two constituents: one refers to a list of voters, and the second part of this law refers to the rule that the same political force or a bloc of political forces can put election lists or candidates on one or more positions only in the number in which it is stipulated: either one in the position of one or another head, or in that amount, excuse me, the deputies of one or another local council, as far as that is concerned in one or another local council. [[This is where I was reminded of the reporter.]] [[from the Bondarenko Committee]] So there were proposals, and I'm going to put it to the vote. Who's to go back to voting on the Ukrainian Law 8687-1, which deals with lists of voters and the right of party organisations to put only one candidate in the position of a particular head and in the number of deputies of a local council, as defined by those councils where they are elected? Who's in favour of going back to voting under this law, please vote. [[11:55:58]] For-198 Decision not taken, not supported. So the law is therefore rejected. We need to put in order of the day and consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on Road Traffic Safety]] This is registration number 8339, please specify for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:56:43]] For a hundred and The factions? Please, by factions: “Ukraine” - 54, Communists - 0, National Party - 10, “Our Ukraine” - 9, Block of Timoshenko - 1, Socialists - 28, National Block of Lithuania - 0, Social-Democratic Party - 4, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, Rebirth - 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, National Movement of Ukraine - 5, Reforms and Orders - 13, “One Ukraine” - 3, non-fractional - 8. [[united]] Maybe you didn't understand, I'm voting again: who's in charge of including in the agenda to include in the agenda the Act on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on Road Traffic Safety]] Registration number 8339? I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:52]] For 199 According to factions: “Ukraine” - 50, Communists - 0, National Party - 20, “Our Ukraine” - 20, Block Timoshenko - 2, Social Party - 28, National Block Lithuania - 3, Social Democrats - 12, Ukrainian People's Party - 5, Rebirth - 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, Reforms and Orders - 14, “One Ukraine” - 0, non-fractional - 9. [[United]] Yes, Your Honor, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. And after the break, we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u98	The consultations continue, and we continue our work. Let us now consider the questions of second reading. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, registration number 8348, is under consideration. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. Oh, no? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u99	Sergey Tereshuk, “Litvina National Block”. Dear colleagues, the bill adopted in the first reading on amending the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, which was co-operated with the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is being submitted to your consideration. I would like to thank the People's Deputy of Yukhnovska, the People's Deputy of Martinowski, the People's Deputy of Aloshina, who made over 100 remarks in the drafting of the bill. Most of these, specifically 80, are included. These proposals are taken into account in the bill regarding the definition of terms that are in line with the terms already used in current legislation and that meet international standards. Proposals for the rights and duties of public officials from the quarantined plants of Ukraine and health-care operators to carry out phytosanitary expertise are also taken into account only in cases of suspected exposure to sub-carrantine materials by harmful organisms and the issue of a phyto-sanitary certificate for re-exporting and extended phyto-sanitary control. Some comments and proposals to the bill have been rejected, as they do not meet the standards of Ukrainian legislation, the European Union, and international quarantine standards. In particular, the proposal to remove a quarantine certificate issued in EU countries under the name of a plant passport and the subject matter of the regulation is rejected only for the presence of such a passport. It should also be noted that according to valid proposals by Ukrainian national deputies, the bill clearly defines cases where a quarantine certificate is issued. Proposals for a change in the names of state-owned plant quarantine inspections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol in the territory are useless, as the unwarranted costs of the state budget will be incurred. Proposals for the deletion of articles 13 on the implementation of phytosanitary expertise, 42, 43,44, 45 articles on the implementation of phytosanitary procedures for consignments infected by quarantine organisms and Chapter 3, which regulates the development and application of phytosanitary measures, are not taken into account, as they are designed precisely to bring Ukraine's legislation into the European Union's legislation and require the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, the FAO International Plant Protection Convention and are called upon to contribute to improving trade relations with foreign partners. In general, the bill is in line with the requirements of European legislation. When we adopt the bill, we will have a favourable climate for Ukraine's integration into European co-operation and trade with neighbouring and other states of the world. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are a number of unaccounted for amendments. They're mostly Aloshina's colleagues. Is Valery Borisovich insisting? Please, Aloshina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to my proposals, which have indeed been rejected. I am grateful to the committee for taking some of the suggestions into account, but I would like to highlight the following. The introduction in this form of a quarantine certificate and other documents required by that procedure will definitely increase the cost of Ukrainian food producers for all these procedures. So I do have, again, a proposal to vote, at least a proposal to work on this part so that we can process these documents and the costs associated with it to the minimum if we do not agree on my proposal to delete these mandatory documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u102	What kind of offer would be appropriate on your part?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u103	Please, Aloshina's microphone and Valery Borisovich, you're definitely correcting yours, we're on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u104	How do you propose to consider it in what way?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u105	You know, I'm not ready to propose an editorial right now, but because the committee rejected my proposals for removing these documents, I insist that these amendments be voted on because they really strengthen the regulatory influence of the state and hinder the business environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u106	Then, Valery Borisovich, I ask once again what kind of amendment we have to vote on, because you have many. You call it a specific amendment, and I'll put it to the vote that you insist on. Please, Aloshina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u107	Edit the sixth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u108	Okay. I'll bet. Please take it. I put to the vote amendment number six, which is on page three of Aloshina, which proposes the deletion of article 9, paragraph one. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:39:56]] Z-11. Not accepted. What's that? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! It is obvious that now it seems impossible to vote on any amendments that are not agreed upon by the committee. In this regard, there is a suggestion to support the second reading and commission the preparation of the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u110	Right. Who else is a national MP? There's no account of Oleg Yukhnov's case, is there? No, it's not. Who are the other national deputies? And the amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers is here? I don't see them. I don't see any amendments, it's a second reading. The minister's office for second reading is no longer connected. I'm sorry. In the first -- please to the second, if you'll excuse me, do you have a bearing? You have the right to make corrections and to argue them if they exist. There have been no amendments to this law by the Cabinet of Ministers, so you have no opportunity to make your own voice. Yes. No one insists on coworkers? Then I put my first proposal to a pro-vote committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Quarantine Plants. Please vote. [[12:41:37]] For 212 By fact, please: “Ukraine” 51, Communist 44, People's Party 263, Our Ukraine 14, Block Timoshenko 12, SPU 15, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Block Lithuania – 19, SDPU (o) – 0, Rebirth – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 5, One Ukraine – 4, Reforms and Orders – 7, Industrial Party, Businesses of Ukraine – 1, Non-factional - 6. Have a seat, please. So who's to go back to voting? I'd like to make a statement. [[12:42:30.]] For 256 We're back. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Law amending the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. Registration number 8348. Please vote. [[12:43:02]] For 265 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[concerning licensing]] [[second reading]] Please, Budjigan Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! In the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine and on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine were adopted at the first reading in June 2003. [[Registration number 2419]] [[Registration number 2532]] 383 deputies voted in favour of the first bill; 319. Taking into account that both bills are aimed at regulating the licensing relationship, in particular by bringing Ukraine's existing legislative acts into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on licensing certain types of economic activity and by the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority at its meetings on 6 December and 17 January of this year, the Committee has already considered the bill already mentioned, decided to unify it and submit a harmonized bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[It's more than 15 laws.]] The second reading of the drafts takes into account all the comments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Of the 53 proposals that came from the Ukrainian national deputies, 4 were taken into account entirely or editorially, 12 were rejected. Most of the rejected proposals in connection with legislative changes that have taken place since the adoption of the bill in the first reading or because of the fact that the proposals are not the subject of the law. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice and believed that it could be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine 2419. And now, if there is a need, we can go through the changes that have been made, but I don't think the MPs will insist on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u112	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Yes, dear colleagues, there are unaccounted for amendments to the National Deputies of the Desert, John the Rabbit, Vitaly the Shibka, and others. Which of your colleagues insists on their amendments? You don't? They're in the hall, but they don't insist. Then I put to the vote the proposal of the second-reading committee and, in general, the law of the Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts in relation to licensing. Please vote. [[12:46:32]] For 212 Something we liked about that figure. Yes, please, who wants to go back to voting on the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts? Here are two minus 2419 and 2532, divided into one. Please vote. [[12:47:06]] For 246 We're back. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing. Registration numbers 2419 and 2532. Please vote. [[12:47:38]] For 289 The law is passed. A draft Child Nutrition Act, registration number 1260, is under consideration. [[second reading]] As reported by Chelombenko Igor Vasilovich. Is it? None. Then I turn to my colleagues, Manchulenka, and others whose corrections are not included. Ah, there's a Chelombite. Please come to the rostrum, Igor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You have a table of amendments to the draft Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act, registration number 1260, prepared by the Committee for second reading. The bill defines strategic national priorities for providing children with sufficient quality and safe child nutrition for the first three years of life. Its aim is to improve the demographic situation in Ukraine, to strengthen and preserve the health of the child’s population, and to prevent diseases associated with eating disorders. During the drafting of the bill, 88 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were considered by the committee, the vast majority of which are included in the final draft of the bill, including editorially. Declined - 18. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2001 the Ukrainian Law on preschool education has been in force, article 33 of which provides for the provision of first and second years of life by the State for special children's foods, including donor vitaminised milk, milk mixtures and diet products. I draw your attention to the fact that to this day these guarantees continue to operate exclusively on paper. This bill proposes to provide at least first-year children and separate categories of second- and third-year children at the expense of the state. These are children from low-income families and families living in areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, in the area of guaranteed voluntary evictions, and in the area of enhanced radiological control. We ask the National Deputies to support the bill prepared by the Committee and to adopt it as a law in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u114	Thank you, Igor Vasilovich. I'm talking to colleagues whose corrections are rejected. Which one of you insists? There's no such thing as luck. That's why I'm voting on adoption in second reading and in general as the Children's Nutrition Act, registration number 1260. Please vote. [[12:50:35]] For 248 The law is passed. Thank you. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on Child Help for Single Mothers]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Subcommittee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Mikhailo Lukovic Siatina. Please, Mikhailo Lukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina. “Litwina People’s Block”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I am brief, just as the law is short. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, No. 7119 of 01.03. In 2005. The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood has finalized the bill for second reading, taking into account the proposals made by national deputies and regulations. These are proposed in the alternative bill number 7119-1, which was introduced by the People's Deputy Odinenik. In fact, these two bills are united in one. The draft law, prepared by the Second Reading Committee, proposes to increase the amount of State aid for children to single mothers from 1 January 2007. Single adoptions, widows, widowers who have children under 18 years of age up to at least 30% of the current 10% minimum of living for a child of appropriate age. In addition, it is suggested that the child’s age be increased from 18 years of age to 23 years of age if the child learns. The principal legal office was called upon by the bill without any notice. Dear colleagues, the People's Block of Lithuania will support this bill. And the committee proposes to uphold the law in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Mikhailo Lukovic, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, there was one amendment of the national MP of Loboda and others. It's counted. I am voting on the proposal of a second-reading committee for adoption and, in general, as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children on Child Support to Single Mothers. Registration number 7119. Please support single mothers and their children. [[12:53:41]] For 230 Thank you. The law is passed. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 58, Communists – 54, People's Party – 34, “Our Ukraine” – 8, Block of Timoshenko – 12, Socialists – 19, National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, “Rebirth” – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, “Reforms and Orders” – 5, “One Ukraine” – 0, non-fractional – 5. [[United]] The draft Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council, registration number 6450, is being heeded. Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. He's probably on the Conciliation Council right now. So come on, please. Which of the colleagues made their amendments, and they are not included, and he insists, please report. Although I can see that almost all of them are accounted for. Nobody insists? Then I put to a second reading vote and generally as a law on temporary investigators and special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6450. Dear colleagues, please support. Vote. [[12:55:33]] For 313 Thank you. You and I have adopted a vital and necessary law that is being fought against and fought for by the Supreme Council. Let us hope that this law will not, as on the President's previous veto, because the results of the vote show that it is not worth doing. The draft Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, registration number 8681 is under consideration. [[except taxi]] [[second reading]] The committee is represented by Philip Philipovich Budzigan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u117	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, was adopted in the first reading on 10 January 2006, by 386 Ukrainian deputies. [[except taxi]] Three comments were received on the second reading of the bill, but the committee, members of the committee, rejected the comments. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with some observations. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, registration number 8681 on second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, Philip Philipovich. Yes, the amendments here were rejected by the national MPs of Bespalogo and Slabenko. Don't you insist? No, it's not. I'm voting, be careful, I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as the law of the Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, registration number of Bill 8681. [[except taxi]] Please vote. [[12:58:12]] For 339 Thank you. The law is passed. We'll look forward to its implementation, the more the Cabinet of Ministers said that they have the opportunity not to increase prices, we'll help them in that and legislatively. There is a draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on free receipt of accounts for services provided]] [[second reading]] Registration number 8255. Reports Vitaly Terentijovich Korz of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing, and Communications. Please, Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u119	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Telecommunications. [[on free receipt of invoices for telecommunications services provided]] Registration number 8255. The National Deputys of Ukraine, Kiroyanz, Gorbachev, propose amendments and additions to the Law on Telecommunications, in particular article 32, paragraph 16, which sets out the obligations of the operator, the telecommunications provider free of charge to give the consumer a breakdown of the accounts for the received telecommunications services. Six comments and additions to the bill by national deputies were processed and taken into account by the committee. One point is partially taken into account. As a result, the committee prepared a project that clearly defined the rules for the receipt of detailed accounts by consumers of telecommunications services and indicated the need for further development of the Cabinet of Ministers' actions resulting from this law. The Professional Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u120	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. Yes, the law is small, almost everything is accounted for. Does Boris Andressuk insist? This is where it's accounted for. No, it's not. Then we have reason to vote for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Law on Telecommunications concerning free receipt of bills for services rendered. Registration number 8255. Please be supportive. [[13:01:20]] For 319 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Be careful, I asked for the words of Koval Vjacheslav Stanislavovich, there is one right to the law that we have adopted for the transcript, please. One minute. We voted. It's for the stenographer now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! I thank you very much from the committee, from the head of the working group for their support. But there is one legal part that needs to be taken into account editorially. The committee agrees to take into account the comments made in the draft Law of the Legal Administration in a meaningful and editorial manner to clarify the positions of articles 1 to 7 including 9 and 10 of 18 to 24, including 32, 37 and the final positions I wish to inform and ask that this be recorded in the transcript of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These amendments do not affect the content of the law. But for the sake of legal clarity, so that this bill is done well for the President of Ukraine as well. I'm asking you to back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u122	Thank you. So, your honor, we agree with the proposals of the committee that they will also take into account, when finalizing the President's signature, the Chief Legal Administration, the amendments that the Chief Legal Authority recommends. They're legal and technical in nature without changing the law. It's a deal, thank you. The law has been passed, and we've marked it for the stenographer. I should now consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts relating to the conduct of an experiment in housing construction on the basis of the holding company Kyivmiskbud, but the committee did not receive a Comparative Table, so we are taking this bill off the table today because there are no necessary materials. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial" is under consideration, registration number 5384. [[about the fund]] From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt a decision repealing the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 13 January 2005 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State General Compulsory Social Insurance in connection with Temporary Loss of Employment and Expenses Caused by Birth and Funeral. The story of this question is so. In terms of parliamentary control, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour reviewed the foundation's work and found a number of significant violations on the ground, and so a decision was made, and in the first reading we adopted such a law to eliminate the fund's administration in places, that is to say, to eliminate the management of the fund's district offices. The bill, after being adopted, was carried out, including with the participation of the Attorney General’s Office, for which we are grateful, the KRA, the Accounting Chamber. The situation changed dramatically, and the main, important argument that prompted the committee to make that decision was that we received 27 comments and additions to the bill. They all apply to one, to cancel the ruling. These include all the trade unions’ district federations, the central federation, the trade unions’ branch federation, and the national MPs who introduced, that is, the legislators of the legislative initiative, have expressed their firm disagreement with the liquidation of the government of the fund’s district offices. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour recommends and requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision on the annulment of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 13 January 2005 No. 2348-4 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance. [[in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to cancel the decision to adopt in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Publicly Compulsory State Social Insurance concerning the Fund. [[in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial]] Registration number 5384. Please vote. [[13:06:44]] For 248 The decision to repeal the law was made in the first reading. Copy that. I apologize, dear colleagues. I've technically lost one law, but we found it. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 3624. [[on reconciliation of issues of responsibility]] Please, head of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, there are dozens of cases in Ukrainian legislation where criminal and administrative responsibility is provided for the same actions or omissions. The proposed amendments to the Criminal Code and to the Code on Administrative Offences are proposed: If there are such cases, there is a less severe law, i.e. responsibility under the Code of Administrative Offences. There were three comments from our colleague Adam Chickal, three of whom were included. The committee is asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Have a seat, please. All the amendments made by our colleague are taken into account. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine as a whole on the harmonization of matters of responsibility. Registration number 3624. Please vote. [[13:08:41]] For 246 Thank you. The law is passed. Let us turn to the chapter “To review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. I said about Kyivmishkbud: Unfortunately, the committee didn't prepare the table, and we can't look at it. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Income Taxes on Inheritance Taxation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10 January of this year. Registration number 5038. Please Deputy Finance Minister Reguretic Vasil Vasilovich. The committee is the Seminoga Anatoly, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u127	Honourable National Deputies, the President of Ukraine sent a letter to the Supreme Council, which reported that according to part two of article 94 of the Constitution, Ukraine returned the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on the Income Tax of Individuals, which reports that he cannot sign this law for such reasons. In principle, focused, or focused, attention by the people's deputies on two grounds is an economic basis and a legal basis that would not allow the President to sign this law. The proposed amendments to article 11 of the Income Tax Act, as well as the date of entry into force of the Act, run counter to the State Budget Act adopted by the Supreme Council, which stipulates in paragraph 40 of Article 77 that this article 11 for 2006 is suspended. [[on bets and fixed property tax objects]] The law restores this action in a new edition with new changes. Amendments to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Natural Persons provide for substantial benefits in inheritance taxation. The law provides for a zero rate to be applied to such types of inheritance as, first of all, a commercial inheritance that is proposed not to be taxed on handing over to the owner of commercial property. This is contrary to the basic principle of the law, which stipulates that any kind of income should be subject to every entity that has these incomes gets. Given that we have a single flat-line rate, there is no economic basis for releasing certain types of income. In addition, the Law offers an inheritance not to family members, other categories, a 5% tax rate, and a 13 percent tax rate that reduces the generally accepted tax rate. Or it will be applied at 15% this year. The application of these provisions will lead to a violation of the principle of equality in the determination of tax liabilities – this is a violation of the basic tax law, the tax system law. In addition, the President points out that there is a violation of the provisions of the Tax System Act regarding the introduction of the deadlines for the implementation of this Act, this Act and the 27th article of the Budget Code, which provide that all laws should take effect from the year following the Law, the budget adopted and be published by 15 August, which precedes the year of adoption of the budget. On this basis, the President made a commitment to the project and turned to it, and returned it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, Basil Vasilovich. Anatoly Ivanovich's seminoga, no? Then I'll let you know the profile committee's opinion. The Professional Committee proposes to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, and in case of dissatisfaction with the proposals. In the order of coming proposals as required by our decision of the Constitutional Court, I am the first to put the President's motion to the vote. The President proposes to reject the Act on Amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons on Inheritance Taxation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:36]] For-48 The offer is not supported. It's clear. The factions. I will read only those who have given a positive result. The People's Party – 2, Our Ukraine – 7, Block Timoshenko – 4, National Block Lithuania – 21, Rebirth – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 4, Reforms and Order – 4, non-fractional – 3. I now put to the vote a proposal by the veto committee for the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax on the Income of Persons. [[on inheritance taxation]] Registration number 5038. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:14:42]] For 281 The factions. Ukraine's 59 regions, communists 54, People's Party 36, Our Ukraine 1, Block Tymoshenko 32, Socialists 27, People's Block Lithuania 20, Social Democratic Party united 19, Ukrainian People's Party 0, Rebirth 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, Reforms and Orders 0, Ukraine 9, non-fractional 10. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, when we were with you, when we voted this law with you on the first reading, we were absolutely right to say that many people, especially in the rural area, are now placed in such conditions that it is better with the house that they have left to do nothing and, excuse me, to burn it or leave it, than to decide the legal right to acquire property, because incredibly high prices must be paid for it and so forth. And we were all kind to each other. Something's not clear. Who's to go back to the veto vote, please make up your mind. [[13:16:23]] For 289 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to defeat the veto. Minfin has already spoken. Minfin has already spoken. I'll say it again. He was three minutes in the rostrum. Don't drive, please. I am voting for the veto over Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax, registration number 5038. [[on inheritance taxation]] Please vote. [[13:17:13]] For 295 Not accepted. The factions. The Party of Regions – 59, Communists – 55, People's Party – 40, Our Ukraine – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 32, Socialists – 29, National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social-Democratic Party – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, Rebirth – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Reforms and Order – 1, “One Ukraine” – 9, non-fractional – 13. [[united]] I'm voting on the proposal, my honourable colleagues, and I'm voting on the proposal to adopt this law in a new edition, taking into account its entry into force on 1 January 2007. Please vote. [[13:18:22]] For 338 Can we beat the veto? A new law has been passed. The essence of this new edition is that this Law on Income Taxes is proposed to be put into effect on 1 January 2007. The Ukrainian Law “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting the Production of Motor Mix Gas ” is being considered with the proposals of the President of Ukraine of January 10, 2006. Registration number 7710. Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich, prepare Homutinik Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Promotion of the Production of Gas Mixtures was adopted on 22 December 2005 and signed by the President of Ukraine for the first time. In principle, by upholding this law and stressing that it regulates a very important area of law, I would like to stress that the Ukrainian President's arguments on the need to review the individual provisions of this law relate primarily to these provisions, which foresee a reduction in excise duty rates for these petrol-powered mixtures as early as 1 January 2006. This violates the requirements of article 27, part 2, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, since there are no financial and economic justifications and defined sources of compensation for budget losses, which we estimate amount to 685 million dollars. It also provides for quota procedures on the part of Kabmin, which are also not included in existing legislation. I would also like to point out that the organization of the production of motor-mixed petrol includes rather serious investments, redesign of existing productions, and it is not technically possible to do so in two months. And this job is going to be 6, 9, 10 months. And by supporting the relevance and feasibility of all other provisions of this law, we would have just given interested subjects the opportunity to prepare for and start production on January 1, 2007, with guarantees that this law will be effective in all its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u130	Yes, thank you, please, from Anatoly Seminoga's profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u131	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! On December 22, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Laws on Incentivizing Gas, Motor, and Mushroom Production. Registration number 7710. The president of Ukraine applied the veto to the law. In his proposals, the President proposes to implement the standards outlined above in the Ukrainian law of January 1, 2007. People’s deputies, members of the committee, suggest leaving the standard that was adopted in this law. It is a matter of granting temporarily in 2006 the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to set quotas for the production of mixed petrol, which will grant the right to implement these gasoline at the rate of 30 euros per tonne of excise duty. This will allow pilot pilot pilots to start bio-mixed gasoline projects in Ukraine in 2006. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 17 January 2006, believes that it is worth agreeing with the arguments of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking agreed with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending some laws of Ukraine to encourage the production of motor-mixed petrol to be adopted in a new edition, taking into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the National Deputies of the Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This is where we come together, the President's proposal, the proposal for a profile committee is identical, so you and I have the opportunity to adopt a law to amend some of the Ukrainian laws to encourage the production of motor gasoline mixed with the proposals of the President of Ukraine in a new edition. Please vote. [[13:24:45.]] For 337 Thank you. The law is passed. Ukraine's Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on telecommunications and the use of Ukrainian radio frequency resources, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.12.2005, is being complied with. Head of the National Liaison Commission, Hayduk Oleg Vasilovich. Prepare Vitalia Korjou.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u133	Good afternoon. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues, I present to your consideration the proposals of the President of Ukraine, which are set out in the following: first, paragraph one of article two of the Ukrainian Law on telecommunications is proposed to be presented in a new edition of the definition of terms – “telecommunication provider” and “technical means of telecommunications”. With regard to the telecommunications provider, restrictions on the use of the telecommunications channels are excluded, and the technical means of telecommunications include the final equipment. The final equipment connected to the telecommunications network and its interaction should meet the requirements set out in the telecommunications technology. Such a requirement is not currently provided for by law. Thus, it is proposed that final equipment be placed on the telecommunications technology. With regard to the telecommunications provider, namely the exclusion of the restriction, it may result in a decrease in the quality of service provided by providers, a decrease in their responsibility to users, which does not meet the requirements of article 42, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which proclaims the principle of State protection and consumer rights. The term “technological means of telecommunications” does not correspond to one of the current Ukrainian Telecommunications Act, namely, the term “telecommunication network of a complex of telecommunications and terminal equipment.” The other one. Amendments to the Law on Telecommunications, provided for in article 2, paragraph 2, of the Act, are introduced by the National Commission for the Regulation of the Communications of Ukraine, activities for the provision of services and the distribution of television programmes with the application of its own or rented technical means of telecommunications. At the same time, this license for television broadcasting under Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting laws and the National Council for Television and Radio is being implemented by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Thus, the law under consideration introduces a double licensing of the listed activity, which would significantly complicate the access of operators to the telecommunications market, and does not correspond to the State's declared course on the regulation of entrepreneurial activity, does not comply with article 14 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, under which the right to use the language channel issued by the Council is the only legal basis for the right to use the language channel. Article 2 of the two laws provides for the licensing of such activities in the field of telecommunications as the provision of electricity. This does not mean that the channels of communication are divided into local, international, and intercity channels. Thus, it is proposed that paragraph two of article two be supplemented by paragraphs two of paragraph four of the content: “The provision of local, inter-urban, international electricity channels”. And, taking into account the suggestions, “Final equipment” - to complement article 24 of the law accordingly with part nine of the following content: “The standards of this article are extended to final equipment”. The proposals are supported by the authors and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u134	Thank you. From the profile committee, Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u135	Vitaly Corge, faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues are the national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain Ukrainian Laws proposed amendments and additions to Ukraine's laws: “On Telecommunications”, “On Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine” and the Code on Administrative Offences. [[Registration number 7344]] On November 30, 2005, the Supreme Council adopted the bill as a whole. On December 20, 2005, the bill was returned to the Supreme Council with proposals from the President of Ukraine. At his meeting in January, the President's proposal was reviewed by the President and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt legislation in a new edition, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. People's deputies would like to support the bill in the proposed edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Igor Ostash, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Igor Ostrash, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear colleagues, there's a little editorial regulation. Which does not affect the essence of the Law, but is vital. In article 32, part 1, paragraph 16, replace the word “pretentious” with the word “reasonable claims”. Because, in fact, there's always a problem with the evidence base. In this case, it is. Indeed, it will seriously improve the text of the Law, rather than “pretentious” – “reasonable claims”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u138	Well, it's oil, almost. Because claims must be justified. But come on, there's no objection? Then I put to the vote the adoption of the new edition, taking into account the President's proposals and the clarification made by Comrade Ostas, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, on telecommunications and on the use of Ukraine's radio-frequency resources. Registration number 7344. Please vote. [[13:31:22]] For 321 Thank you. 321. Copy that. Dear colleagues, this is the situation with the following Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Order of Referral of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States” with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24 November 2005. Registration number 3416-d. The Defence and National Security and Defence Committee fully agrees with the President's proposals Therefore, I propose to adopt the Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States, in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[13:32:20]] For 313 Thank you. The law was passed in a new order. Let's move on to the "ratification issues" section. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being complied with. Registration number 0270. From the Ministry of Transport and Liaison, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. You don't? None. Yes. From the profile committee, who can? Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Finance and Banking on 5 July 2005, discussed a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The total cost of the project is $200 million, including a loan to the bank of $120 million. The project involves the purchase of modern passenger cars. This is going to cost $47 million, and the rail technology is 29 million dollars. And the construction of the Bexi Tunnel is $40 million. In addition, it is envisaged that the bank will be paid to a one - time commission for the opening of a loan of one percent. That's 1.2 million dollars in total. And the consulting services for the project are $2 million and the advisory services for the design of the 0.8 million tunnel. The interest rate on this loan is liber plus one percent of the commission. During the discussion of the above - mentioned question, national MPs, members of the committee, noted some of the comments and shortcomings that I have to say today. First of all, the loan agreement provides that Ukraine guarantees the performance of its obligations by the borrower, i.e. the Crucifixion, the conversion of it from the State Administration into a shareholder company through the adoption of the relevant Corporate Act. According to the committee, this condition on the part of the creditor is not valid for Ukraine. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also has a point to make in this regard. Secondly, according to Crossroads, it currently has a balance of two previously unutilized loans of $300 million, which in turn raises the government debt of Ukraine. At the same time, at the same time, the 2005 Crossroads were expected to generate 2.6 billion dollars, which is a significant growth rate for the company's profits. So this net profit, according to members of the committee, can also be used for the needs noted, including in the agreement in question. Thirdly, there were questions about consultants. The same wagons that are offered to buy are clearly what kind of business makes them, these wagons. It's Krukowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u141	The Krukov car repair plant does not, in our view, have to pay extra for the services of consultants who will advise, what equipment, which wagons to buy. Thus, if generalized, the committee’s opinion was ambiguous. Some members of the committee supported this ratification, some took note of the comments that I was asked to make today. In general, the committee suggested that a voting room be identified for this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u142	Thank you. Perhaps in view of what was long ago, you forgot the committee’s decision. The committee recommends rejecting the draft law on ratification. So you should inform what the committee has accepted. Yeah, we'll figure it out? No, no, no? Come on, let's talk for 12 minutes. Carmazin, please prepare for the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u143	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Dear National Deputies! I'll start at the end for those who don't understand why the committee said no. And to reject the committee absolutely correctly said that, because, in addition to allocating these funds, it is also envisaged to convert the “district” into a State-owned enterprise, from the state administration to a shareholding campaign, through the adoption of the relevant Corporations Act. Ladies and gentlemen! You know what a cheap catch that is. We're giving you the money, we're giving it all away and we're buying it ourselves. So it's the right thing to do. First of all, to reject. And second of all, I have a question. Who had the mind to sign such a covenant? How can such commitments be made to foreigners? Would you like to make another commitment to changing things in Parliament? Will you make such commitments? How can we possibly get to that point? This clearly bears the mark of treason. All those who sign these things, they're not jokes, you know. And we're seriously discussing and talking about how this can be denied money. From money that leads to destruction and the capture of our strategic values, we must refuse. So, Your Honor, let's evaluate this bill not just because it's given to us for something and for some money. Let's watch what they're doing. That's the first one. And the second. We're here to discuss all of the agreements up to 200 million. I don't remember discussing, ratifying any more agreements in this room. How could Naftogaz Ukraine take two billion euros? What can I do for you? Why don't we hear what the two billion-euro "Naftogaz" contracts are signed? Why don't we hear it? The first tranches have already come, the first tranches, that the whole sum has not come. So let's be principled about these things. I would ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, you have every morning to wonder what's going on, how long has it been, you know? And now there's Mr. Medvedzko, as Attorney General, I'm addressing you. There are two billion euros worth of unprecedented agreements, and they have never yet been ratified in this room. 2,200. That's 4,200 million euros. Billions of euros, where's transparency? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u144	Yes, Mikola Sadowa, conveys the word Vitalia Šibko, please. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u145	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I thank Adam Ivanovich for his word. I mean, is there really a warning here that we should ratify this agreement or not? Although if you look outwardly, there are some possibilities that say positive. First. I want to pay attention to our colleagues because this didn't happen in the presentation when I was drafting this law. So it's going to be effective. That's the first thing you need to pay attention to. The other one. The loan will be granted in dollars with two tranches of $80 million and $40 million with a maturity of 15 years, and the repayment of the loan difference and the commission for the use of the funds will begin, after the first tranche of December 10, 2007, and the second tranche, 48 months after. the acquisition of the validity of this tranche. I would like to invite the participants of our meeting today to make a commitment of 0.5 years. That is to say, the repayment of the loan will be made at the expense of the own “district” funds. And the “district” for today is still a state-owned enterprise. It should also be noted here that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the guarantor of the agreement, is the important representative of Ukraine. But I fully share here the comments made by my colleague Karmazin. They primarily apply, because it is not defined how the state will then respond, some changes in the ownership of the Crucifixion itself, you know that there is such an effort today. And if, God forbid, it happens, then you don't know who to pretend to be. This is a major precaution to consider when it comes to voting or not supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u146	Basil Nadrag. I can't see. Please, Sergey Zizko. Prepare John the Rabbit. Zizka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The aim of the project, under which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lends 120 million dollars to railways, is to introduce rapid movement of passenger trains. In fact, implementation of the project will mean really revolutionary changes in passenger rail transport. Intercity passenger transport across Ukraine will be carried out at the same qualitatively new level for Ukraine as they are now provided on the Kiev-Hark and Dnipropetrovsk lines. An integral part of the project is the construction of a new tunnel at the Carpathian station, which will ensure the growth of transit routes along the international transport corridor number 5. Credit is issued by the Eurobian under State guarantees and therefore requires ratification. It should be borne in mind that this project was being prepared by the ‘Straight Line’ and the EBRD as early as the middle of last year. This may reveal some of the shortcomings of the guarantee agreement. In particular, the undiscovery of funding sources and spending directions amounting to 80 million dollars. The dollar that she has to put into effect is the Ukrainian side. However, the Crucifixion plans to finance the project from its own revenue. The guaranteed agreement provides, of course, a guarantee that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine will play a role in paying all payments due to the loan agreement. This may cause some anxiety. Perhaps by enacting the law on the ratification of the guarantee agreement, the Court of Auditors should be given an order to investigate the implementation of the “district” terms of the credit agreement. The content of the guarantee agreement is not very much embedded in the content of section “C” of section two zero two, which is that the State should contribute to the “district” in its conversion from the state administration to the shareholder company. Even though this situation is not mandatory, it demonstrates the desire of the former “districts” leadership to carry out corporate activities contrary to current legislation. In addition, the implementation of the rapid-movement project on Ukrainian railways is entirely in the interests of Ukraine. Therefore, taking into account the considerable positive experience of cooperation with the EBRD, of course, of the convenience of the loans received, as well as the interest of the Ukrainian side in implementing the project, I believe it is necessary to support the draft law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the EBRD No. 0270. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u148	Yes, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u149	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to look at the ratification of this agreement in a complex and very balanced manner. I wouldn't want us to just bury this deal. And that's why? Of course, there is a warning, and even Mr. Žizko immediately spoke of these warnings. We know his explanatory notes, but we have to come out of this. First, only that nation can become competitive now in this globalized, hard world that raises the dynamics of life to high levels. To ride horses is to lose all competitiveness. So we need fast transport, we need fast trains. The other one. When it comes to Koryukowka, which is the Chernigow region, we need to invest in this zone of Polisi to make jobs, otherwise people just lose their jobs. It's a poor country, a Polish country, and it's a great place to be. Third. I don't agree that stockpiling an enterprise immediately leads to a change in the form of ownership. “Ukreximbank” – please shareholding company, but there are shares in state ownership. And let's be honest: that we're going to have to share all of the businesses, but whether it's a share or a full share of government property, it's already a question of two. So this is not an argument that we should consider today. We have to make it clear that if we get loans, and at the stake of a librarian, that is, loans are beneficial, that's why everyone lives today, getting loans from each other. Today we want to give up credit and think that we have investments inside our economy to solve all our problems. It's a big mistake. Credits must be taken, but they must be used to benefit our national economy so that they can benefit our economy. To hunt, to rush the government for not using $300 million, not using loans from foreign banks -- that's to say, in the end, it needs to be done even if the Court of Auditors checks what's going on there. So the position of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush is to ratify this treaty with the warnings given to us by the Scientific Department. But if we just throw it away, we say we're stupid politicians, we're not economists, because we have to look for a source. So our faction, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy, will vote and invite you to vote with caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u150	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. But it's easier for the hare to ride on horses than on this, on high - speed transport. Yes, please, on the basis of the Black vote, a minute. And Prowsky. Cherniak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u151	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, PRP faction. Honorable national MPs can, of course, spend another two hours squeezing water in their feet as to whether or not they should take credit. I think so. Obviously, with all the warnings that this loan should be taken. There is a sharp, urgent need to address the issue of speedy movement of trains in Ukraine, lack of funds, a solid bank, a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, giving us $120 million on favourable terms at a liberal rate and giving up such a loan can only a person who doesn't understand what he's doing or wants to do harm to Ukraine. I can still understand the Homutinika there from the “regions”, I can't understand Carmazin: why did he take such a firm stand against it? There are warnings, I agree with what is being warned, especially with regard to transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u152	Mikola Porowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u153	Mikola Porovski, faction of the Political Party of Rebirth. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act provides funding from the state budget for these programmes. In the last two years, however, nothing has been allocated to the state budget for rail transport. And for the next year, we didn't anticipate anything in the state budget for the reconstruction of the painting for the renovation of the mobile warehouse. At the same time, the Crossroads lists 6 billion dollars in 2005 in the state budget. Think about it, with one hand we're taking all the costs, all the profits, on the other hand -- we're exploiting the railway, transport, surface tracks to the full, to the full, to the full, and we're not allowing the Crucifixion to take credit for the upgrade and the mobile warehouse, for the construction of the tunnels. What, then, are we leading this area of national farming to? Today, the financial situation of the “districts ” is catastrophic. It is financed by 25 percent of the need to upgrade the mobile warehouse. It's outgunning again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0270. [[13:53:04]] For 165 Not accepted. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 0, People's Party – 17, "Our Ukraine" – 35, Block Timoshenko – 20, Socialists – 0, "National Block of Lithuania" – 0, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 12, "Rebirth" – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, National Movement – 15, "Reforms and Orders" – 14, "One Ukraine" – 6, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues, let's do some more work. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the transfer of responsibility for air traffic services and the operation of the Uzhrod International Airport is under consideration. Registration number 0313. No warning? Shall we vote? None. I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Transfer of Responsibility for Air Traffic Services and on the Operation of the International Airport of Uzhgrad. Registration number 0313. Please vote. [[13:54:38]] For 327 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the Rules on Customs Control of Movements across the Customs Border of Goods containing Intellectual Property Objects, registration number 0316. Any notes? Shall we vote? I am voting on the Law on Ratification of the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the Rules on Customs Control of Movement across the Customs Border of Goods containing Intellectual Property Objects. Registration number 0316. Please vote. [[13:55:34]] For 317 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Gambia on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, registration number 0317. Any notes? I'm voting, I'm voting on the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Gambia on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, registration number 0317. Please vote. [[13:56:21]] For 306 The law is passed. Yes, dear colleagues, we've worked hard with you, we've saved four minutes, I'll give them to you. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 4 p.m., we begin the evening session. Have a good one.
