ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:03]] There were 381 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Yes, I think, dear colleagues, please calm down. Let's get this straight. Honorable colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to find out and arrest people who don't. A similar action in the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, come on. I'm asking you, we're not setting an example for this sort of action and we're going to set an order. I'm asking the secretariat to find out what it is. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy Desert Lady Valery Pavlovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us success and health. Today is also the birthday of the president of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. Let us welcome the President of Ukraine, and wish him health, endurance, and success. Dear colleagues, today is Motherland's Day. Let us welcome all who traditionally honor this festival and wish everyone success. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 22, 2006, plenary meetings. Eighteen issues of the agenda have been considered. Nine laws and one decree, nine bills, were adopted as a result of the review. One bill is aimed at redrafting, seven bills are rejected. A draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy will be announced for consideration. Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, at the committee meeting, there was a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy, Opladimir Mikolaiovich, a member of the Communist faction, about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on industrial policy and entrepreneurship. To date, the Communist faction's quota for representation on committees is 2.3. Unfortunately, it is used on this committee. But, dear fellows, I am addressing you. Given the special circumstances caused by the fact that this committee, as you well know, worked with the Ukrainian National Deputy, whose mandate we have with you, the Supreme Council, has been suspended in connection with his death for a period of time, we have only worked with you for about two months, there is a position on this committee for the People's Deputy and for the Assistant Consultant of the People's Deputies, who has worked throughout this call, our committee in order, I underline, the exclusion has decided to support the application of the People's Deputy, Opladimir Mikolajovich, and has put into the consideration of the Supreme Council the relevant draft of the Decision to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please, Your Honor, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Payment by a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship”. Please vote. [[10:07:18]] For 236 Decision taken. The drafts of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine: Néciporenko, Chubar, and Vojtuk are announced for consideration. Registration number 9078, 9079, 9080. The reporter is Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenko. Very short, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u4	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the law on the judiciary, we must choose today two members of the High Qualifications Commission before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I think it's an extremely important organ of judicial self-government, and every time I report it, or my colleagues, the judges' candidatures, and you choose them in this high office, it's a huge credit to the superiors. The Ukrainian commission, which conducts the appropriate examination for knowledge, shall be responsible for the appointment of a judge. The Senior Qualifications Commission is responsible for the selection of judicial personnel. She also examines certain disciplinary charges and questions about the judges of appeals and other courts. Thus, formation and we give great attention to it. Unfortunately, we only have two vacancies, but here are three wonderful candidates that I would like to present to you today, well, to this general, so that we can vote. And each one of them is worthy of this high office. Well, first of all, it's about Nechiporenko Alexander Lavric, according to the draft regulations. You have materials, the Committee has carefully checked all the data on it and it is a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, you might say. He worked for a long time as a lawyer. He was a colleague of our people's. He and I worked together in a higher council of justice. And I have to tell you that more of a principled person, let's say, than in a higher council of justice, you've rarely been able to meet an objective one. That's why there's a draft decision on it. Then, by all means, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, report? All at once.?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u5	Let's do it all at once, and then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u6	The next draft of your ruling is regarding the Chubar Ludmila Pantelievni. It also has the honorary title “Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine”, has long worked in the judicial system. In fact, her way of life is work in a court of law. She was in charge of her time, she was the head of the Donetsk Court of Appeal, and literally recently, you know, she left the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. He has great experience and expertise in the role of judge. It is also recommended for the position of the Higher Qualifying Commission. And another draft of the ruling is that you have a relative of Vojtuk Irina Anatoliyevna, who is today the rector of the Judicial Academy. In accordance with the Law on Sudokustium i.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u7	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u8	and those projects that are being submitted to the Judicial Act, the academy will be responsible for the formation of the judicial corps. Moreover, we invite the judge to choose until the training and training of future judges at this academy is completed. It has also proved to be a great expert and a great right, and we recommend a member of the High Qualifying Commission. I'd like to, you know, say the last thing: if one of them doesn't get the right amount, we're going to put a vacancy on a member of the High Council of Justice, because we have the right vacancies. But they are all extremely worthy candidates for high office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u9	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Do you have any warnings, any questions to the candidates? Well, to Ononepenka. Three minutes, please. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Jaroslav Suhi, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u10	Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I am fully satisfied with your comprehensive information regarding these three candidates, I believe, worthy people, who will certainly be some two appointed members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges. I have a request for you, why your committee has practiced and practiced, I think, a bad practice when we write a complaint, we, the Ukrainian national deputies, responding to the statements made by our voters, the judges themselves, we write a complaint to a judge, you, instead of considering the matter, or at least checking what the High Qualifying Commission or the Council of Judges is giving a member of that council, who is a judge, for example, Judge Fedorov, Head of the Foreign Court of Appeal, he is a member of the Council of Judges. And I wrote some complaints about him, and I get answers from him. It's an unacceptable practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u11	Mr. Jaroslav, well, I'm not entirely satisfied with this practice either. Unfortunately, that's our legislation. Because we are obliged to refer to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and today this respectable man is in charge, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Court, Peter Mallarenko, and he, Peter Philipchuk, is already directing because they themselves are unable to handle all the complaints. We are asking today about the amendment to the law on the judiciary, so that both judges and cavalifcomies will work on a permanent basis. Unfortunately, we don't have the people who would be doing a thorough background check on these complaints today. Such changes are under the law on the judiciary. I think we can fix this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u12	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u13	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give the floor to the colleague of Gmir Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u14	Sergei Gmira, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u15	Thank you. Vassili Vasilevich, I would like to understand the logic of the committee, which, for the approval of the two candidatures, I am sure of that, three worthy people. I think at the committee level it's much more logical to pick two than to meet people in this room. Here, I don't understand the logic. Explain it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u16	Unfortunately, I don't understand the logic either, because, in fact, all three are worthy. But you suggest the factions offer no quota for the committee. In accordance with the Judicial Act and the Committees Act, the committee only checks formal data, whether a Ukrainian citizen, or has adequate education. And we can't artificially stop someone from applying. So once again, I'm focusing on one of them, and we're going to introduce, literally in mid-March of the month, we're going to run as a member of the High Council of Justice. Indeed, they are all three extremely worthy candidates for these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u17	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u18	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u19	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine”, Christian Democratic Union. Vasil Vasilovich, and you didn't think on the committee about the purpose of this institution. From my four-year parliamentary experience, I must inform you and the people of Ukraine that 24 of my petitions to the electorate have failed. No action was taken by the Qualification Commission of Judges to refer the complaints to me as a national deputy, and I sent them to the Qualification Commission of Judges. But no one has ever been punished or investigated. Is it really appropriate to keep such an institution, or is it effective? You're not going to analyze the practice of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges at this stage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u20	Analysis of the commission's activities is not part of our committee's functions, but we know about the problems you're raising, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I wouldn't say that Qualifcomy doesn't respond to our appeals if they're justified. Moreover, according to article 97 of the Law on the Courtship of the People’s Deputy, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, himself can violate and initiate disciplinary action. And then they are obliged to consider it in substance. If we simply transmit, it is their competence to break or not to violate a disciplinary matter. But the fact that this committee is working on public principles, and there are lawyers, and there are scientists, and there are judges -- not all of us are happy. Therefore, we are making changes to the Judicial Act, which should be a separate disciplinary commission, as you say, on a permanent basis and appropriate inspectors, and we will need a separate qualified commission to examine for examination, but on the basis of computer data and related programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Time's up. Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, you've been given the material, and the position of the committee to your knowledge has been proven. Of the three candidates, we have to pick two people, so I'll put them to the vote in order to register. But I would like you to realize that of the three of us, we need to choose two so that we can objectively determine and make a decision according to your position. First, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Néciporenko Alexandre Lavrovič, a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, is put to the vote. Registration number 9078. Please vote. [[10:18:52]] For-191 The decision is not taken. If they're not there, prepare, please. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Chubar Ludmila Pantelejovna, a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, is submitted to the vote. Registration number 9079. Please vote. [[10:19:30.]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Get ready, please. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Vojtuk Irina Anatoliyovna, a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine, is announced for the vote. Registration number 9080. Please vote. [[10:20:05]] For 205 Dear colleagues, there will be a vote. Please calm down. There will be a vote on the rating principle: whoever gains the most will be the first to vote. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Chubar Ludmila Pantelijovni as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine is now under way. Registration No. 9079. Please vote. [[10:20:49]] For-191 The decision is not taken. A draft Decision on the election of a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Vojtuk Irina Anatoliyovna, is being put to the vote. Registration number 9080. Please vote. [[10:21:26]] For 169 The decision is not taken. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Néciporenko Alexandre Lavrovič as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. Registration No. 9078. Please vote. [[10:21:56]] For 228 Decision taken. Now, one minute, let's finish the procedure, Your Honor, let's finish the procedure. I now put to the vote, in line with Chubar Ludmila Pantelijovna's nomination for election as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Registration number 9079. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[10:22:42]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the election of a member of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Wojciek Irina, Irina Anatolyevna. Registration number 9080. Please vote. [[10:23:14]] For 186 The decision is not taken. So, your honors, let's welcome Néciporenko Alexandre Lavrovitch to the election of a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges and ask the committee to consider further proposals on this issue. Yes, dear fellows! Please, Onopenko, head of the committee, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we are working on this issue, and for the next plenary week, we will make a proposal to elect the members of the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifying Commission. I think compromises, decisions we'll find and then we'll find an opportunity to vote in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We're going to have to decide one more important decision right now. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was agreed that today we will vote on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2006 State Budget for Ukraine, concerning “Criminals”. You know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to account for 1 per cent of the city of Krivý Rig as a result of the privatisation of “Cribriestali”. We passed the law. The president of Ukraine signed this law, but until it was published in 2005, the financial year ended. Both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers support the proposal, but we have to make the right decision and what was the proper arrangement yesterday during the meeting. No warning? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006 (Registration No. 9161). Please vote. Dear colleagues, we made a deal and made a decision. [[10:25:51]] For 258. A decision is included in the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 as a law, registration number 9161. Please vote. [[10:26:22]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 15, Communists – 55, Block of Timoshenko – 34, National Party – 39, “Our Ukraine” – 33, SPU - 22, National Block - 22, SPDU (o) – 16, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, “Rebirth” – 13, People's Movement of Ukraine – 15, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 7, “Reforms and Orders” – 5, “Afterfraction – 11. Dear colleagues! The draft Ordinance on the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Celiverstova I.V. Reporter of the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Anatoly Ivanovich Baluk Get ready from the Committee of Sergio Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to introduce a candidate for membership of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of Ukraine Celiverstova Igor Vadimovich. Seliverst Igor Vadimovich was born in 1967 in Kiev in the family of officials. After graduating from school, he worked as a locksmith at a factory, and he took part in a full - time military service. After his education in 1992, he worked at the National Bank of Ukraine, where he participated actively in the construction of Ukraine’s national market. Since 1993, he has served as the first deputy head of the board of directors of the Ukrainian Interbank Exchange. Thus, Celiverst Igor Vadimovich is a professional with more than 14 years of practical experience in the financial sector and relevant vocational education, which, apart from the Kyiv State University, ranks the University of Birmingham with a specialty in “money circulation, banking and finance” and a Master's degree in the Ministry of Business at the University of Chicago with a specialist in “Financials and Strategic Management”. [[United Kingdom]] [[United ……]] Working in responsible positions, both in regulatory financial institutions and directly in the financial sector, Igor Celiverst made a significant contribution to the development of the national financial system of currency, capital, goods and markets. He took an active part both in the development of a regulatory framework that regulates the order of operations in the financial sector and in the restructuring of the operations themselves and in the management of important infrastructure institutions. Igor Vadimovich uses recognized authority in the banking and financial circles of Ukraine. In view of the complex professional tasks of developing and regulating Ukraine’s financial markets, which stand before the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, we believe that the involvement of an expert of this level will contribute to an effective solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your approval to serve as a member of the National Commission of Securities of Seliverstova Igor Vadimovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u25	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, will there be questions to the challenger? You don't? Then please, Sergey Vasilovich Burak of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I tell you that, in accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market, the head and members of the commission are appointed and released by the President of Ukraine in agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you all know, the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets should be composed of six members of the Commission. After being released at the request of Mr. Portov, a vacancy arose in the commission. Therefore, the President of Ukraine has made an appropriate draft decision, and the Supreme Council should or should not grant approval for the appointment of the President of the proposed candidate to serve as a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market. The Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on January 18, this year, discussed the draft decision and decided to support Selivertstova Igor Vadimovich’s candidacy. We hope that the presence of a quorum within the commission will help to activate the constructive work of all the participants in the stock market. In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Ukrainian Securities Market, please support this proposed candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u27	I understand we don't have any questions about the challenger. Then we'll determine. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Resolution 8647: “To grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Seliverstova”. Please be sure. [[10:31:44]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. By factions, please show me. "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 5, People's Party - 13, Our Ukraine - 38, Socialists - 1, National Block of Lithuania - 19, Social Democrats - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, Rebirth - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, Reforms and Orders - 14, non-fractional - 5. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u28	What are some of the suggestions, dear colleagues, to return to consideration or not? Well, let's go through the procedure, I'm going to make a proposal for a return to the draft Decision to appoint the President of Ukraine as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Silvestrov. Please vote. Yes, there goes the vote, the vote, the honourable colleagues. [[10:33:10]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I'd like the committee together to agree and study this issue. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take a look at the incident that happened. They are representatives of political parties that have been accredited by a printed body of the political party. I'd like to say that. Dear colleagues, well, please. I just wanted to say one thing to everyone, so they wouldn't have to come in here and throw eggs. Not the Supreme Council, it will not allow the creation of nuclear waste graves as long as this Supreme Council exists. A draft Decision on the withdrawal of certain draft legislative acts of Ukraine relating to social policy and labour is being announced for consideration. Registration number 9061. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, the project is given out if there are any questions, perhaps any against. Dear colleagues, you've been given a project, if there are any warnings about any draft legislative acts, we'll delete them. Please, Sergei Sass, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I wanted to find out on what basis is the day-to-day issue of withdrawal, which rule does this provide? As far as I know, the Rules predict what might happen. is automatically excluded from the agenda if the required number of votes is not obtained if the bill is included in the agenda, is excluded by decision of the Supreme Council or by the author's initiative if it is not included in the agenda. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the point is that the whole range of issues that are being asked today are three in the agenda, including such questions. I think we can't look at them on the grounds that they're automatically excluded from the agenda, because that's if they're not accepted in the first reading, and in the next call they'll just be removed. And last but not least, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On several occasions, the Conciliation Board has decided to put in order the day’s removal of immunity from the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u30	The Supreme Council did not make that decision. If you've accepted it as a faction, your faction is not the entire Supreme Council yet. For starters. And the Conciliation Council didn't take it. We agreed that there would be a bill of seven, and we'll consider it on Monday on the Conciliation Council next, and then you'll see how we can proceed. With regard to bills and draft withdrawal orders: if the committee comes up with such a proposal that they have lost their relevance or issues settled in other legislative acts, then we take it off the table. But if the subject of the legislative initiative insists that the matter be considered in the sessional room, we will remove such a project from the draft decree. So we don't have a problem here. Sasu microphone again, please enable the argument to be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But we need the reporter to tell us what acts this has already been settled. And these acts should take effect and be published. In another order, only by the author's initiative, if not included in the agenda and if included, by decision of the Supreme Council. This is what the Rules provide. Thank you. In this context, therefore, the reporter needs to explain clearly the reason why the bill is being withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u32	You're right. Now Jaroslav Mikhailovich will brief you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u33	Dear colleagues and personal colleague Sass, I'll tell you that according to the law that we passed here with you, it's called, this law, "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine," the profile conduct of a bill is provided for by a professional committee and you know that a committee may be the first or second, or the third. That's the first one. If in this case there is any disagreement with the Rules, please make adjustments or additions to the current Rules of the Supreme Council. With regard to the specific bills that are proposed to be withdrawn, the committee, after careful consideration of them, and not once, believes that two reasons, and you will see today, apart from our committee, the Committee on Budget Issues will consider, propose, the Committee of Stretovich will propose. These are bills that either duplicate, duplicate existing bills, or have long lost their relevance. That's it. That's why it's suggested that if you have any authors, you have a number. Ivan Sidorovich raises his hand, if he has a note, I'm either ready to give an answer, or just take it out of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u34	Who's holding up his hand? Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u35	John Boki, the Socialist faction. The committee, represented by Mr. Suhi, proposes that our bill with deputies Moroz and Rudzkowski be withdrawn to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on social security for public and municipal officials in education, culture, and health care. We think it's wrong. This bill has received the approval of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Committee on Science and Education and its rejection today is not dictated by any obsolescence of its, no other reason. The bill deals with the establishment of additional guarantees for employees of culture, education, and health care in respect of salaries and pensions, such as certain other guarantees. So we ask you to remove this bill 5715 from the list of projects that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Since there is a proposal to delete, we have to listen to the drafters, remove draft law registration number 8157, and vote the rest if there are no warnings. You don't? A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of draft legislation on social policy and labour is being tabled. Registration number 9061, with the deletion of draft law, registration number 8157. Please vote. [[10:40:34]] For 273 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Removement of Certain Bills has been announced for consideration. Reporter to the Head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Budget Committee Please, Sophia Pavlovna. Since this is a huge list, maybe we'll go the same way, if there's a warning about any projects, we'll delete them. Sophia Pavlovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Taking into account the adoption by the Supreme Council on 20 December of the State Budget Act 2006 and the end of the 2005 budget period, the Committee proposes to withdraw draft amendments to the 2005 State Budget Act in view of the fact that they have lost their relevance. All these bills are listed in the decree. In fact, we've all been looking at these documents completely without exception, because they're not relevant, I'm asking you to support this. One more thing I'd like to inform the Supreme Council. This applies to the Law on the Assignment of Funds from the Privatisation of the “Cribriestali” directly to the city of Krivi Rig for socio-economic measures and to similar actions in relation to adjacent territories. This law, Vladimir Mikhailovich, was handed over to the President on December 19th. So there was actually enough time to sign it and put it into effect, but unfortunately it was signed after the new year. In fact, the adoption of this document was deliberately delayed, making it impossible to direct the funds directly to the support of the city of Curve Rig. In this regard, I think we need to accept a new document that we already have in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u38	Ludmila Pavlovno, we just passed the law 15 minutes ago, and it will be signed in an hour on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u39	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u40	I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 9069. To remove some of the bills. Please vote. [[10:43:03]] For 233 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the withdrawal of certain draft Ukrainian legislation on combating crime and corruption is under consideration. Reporter, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u41	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, is invited to your attention to draft Parliament’s decision to withdraw eight bills and nine draft decrees of the Supreme Council. This figure is somewhat refined given that Bill No. 4354, author of Dobkin and Svetash, and the corresponding draft decision of the Supreme Council was withdrawn on 20 January 2005. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, proposing this draft decision, concluded that the draft regulations, projects, acts of legislation had become obsolete or needed substantial work. Clearly, substantial work cannot be done within the time frame left to carry out the Fourth Call of Power by the Supreme Council. I can comment on every bill that has been drafted, proposed for consideration, the draft legislation. But let me stop on a few things. For example, Jury Artemenko's bill, registered under number 2318 on the organization of the system of organs that fight crime, cannot be further worked out in any way, since on September 8, last year, the constitutional majority of the House suspended the mandate of the national MP. The authors of the legislative initiative on the approval of the position on the Committee on Combating Organized Crime realize that the above-mentioned position should be further worked out in the light of the new edition of the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This applies to Project No. 3028. And I can give you an argument about other bills. At the same time, this does not prohibit, in any subject of the legislative initiative, a new parliamentary call to put this initiative back into Parliament's approval. And I would like to support the committee's opinion, because we are here to make sure that each committee is represented in proportion, each faction has been represented in proportion to each committee. And then the committee's opinion coincides, in fact, with the Supreme Council's. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings about this project? Please turn on Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland “The Jurya Carmazin Block”, who wants to destroy the CTC so that the name “Juriya Carmazin” is not destroyed. I have a question. Please tell Mr. Stretovich Volodymira Mikolaiovich. The Ukrainian National Bureau of Investigation Bill 4387, you understand how important it is. And you introduced, and the President spoke, and the King introduced, and made a previous call. It's about fighting organized crime, it's about fighting corruption at the highest level that nobody in the country is doing today. Why don't you and I consider this Law that we just need. And I'm sure we've had enough of this time. If you were to report him right now, we'd be voting for him in a week or two, and we'd finally accept him, we'd give him to the President. For once again the new Supreme Council, which the bandits want to come to, will not accept this Law, will not create this body. They won't be interested. Let's do it now, remove this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u44	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Two of these bills have been registered. One No. 4387 (author of the Bill of Major General Samofalov and No. 4387-P (Stretovich, Buiko and Karnauh). I would like to point out that without political will and agreement between the political basics in Ukraine, we will not be able to achieve anything in Parliament about the purpose of adopting this law. Today, the interdepartmental group on law enforcement reform, which works with the National Security and Defence Council, has adopted a decision on the need to create a special jurisdiction body, which will not be called the State Investigation Service, a working name. So it's all moving in order and the next Parliament will already be prepared with all agreed parties a bill that will be approved. We think that in two plenary weeks we can't accept this super-complicated bill. Therefore, please withdraw from consideration during the operation of this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u45	Gennady Samofalova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u46	Gennady Samofalov, Ukrainian Region faction, Political Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Following the presidential elections, the President's team identified the fight against corruption as one of the first areas of its strategy. And the theme was to create a National Bureau of Investigation. I introduced a bill like that three years ago. Three years ago, I emphasize. Please tell me what changed today. What, we're out of corruption? That's it. Why has this law become obsolete today? I propose that, if we vote, the establishment of the National Bureau of Investigation should be excluded from the list that is proposed to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u47	The honourable Hennaday Hennadiyovich, the committee, in view of the parliamentarians, concluded that in 33 days of working calendars of the Supreme Council we were unable to adopt this bill. This does not deprive you of the right of legislative initiative in the next parliament to initiate it again. As far as your bill is concerned, you have carefully read the comments of the Scientific and Expert Department and the decision of our committee, which recognizes that the bill is not in conformity with the Constitution of the State and cannot be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! Since two deputies: Yuri Karmazin and Hennaday Samofalov object to the withdrawal of Bills 4387, 4387/p -- they are being removed from the draft decree. And in view of this, I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain draft legislation on the fight against crime and corruption. Registration number 9060, please vote. [[10:49:32]] For 284 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance of the International Conference on the Role of Financial Controls in Combating Corruption and Fraud is announced for consideration in September 2006 in Kiev, registration number 9115. Dear colleagues! Why was such a decision needed? You will admit that according to the schedule in Ukraine, such a conference is to be held with the participation of the European Organisation of Senior Supervisors, of which Ukraine is a member. This calls for an appropriate decision. The call was made to the Cabinet of Ministers by asking about organizational, technical, and material arrangements. Yet, no decision is taken until now. A proper reminder from the Supreme Council is needed to begin the preparatory process for this conference. So if there's no objection, I'll put a draft ruling to the vote. The committee led by Sergei Vasilovich Burjak supports a similar proposal. No warning? I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of the international conference "The Role of Financial Controls in Combating Corruption and Fraud" in September 2006 in Kiev, registration number 9115. Please vote. [[10:51:17]] For 279 I'll take the order. A draft Decree on Hearing Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of implementation of government and local budgets for 2005 and on the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of Ukraine's budget in 2006. The issue is scheduled to be discussed on March 14, 2006. We discussed this problem, the honourable colleagues, on the Conciliation Council and agreed that consideration of this issue was necessary for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree on positions and determine ways of further working together on the country's main economic law. Yes, is there a need to report on this? Please, Supruna Ludmila Pavlovna. Well, we'll wait until you're done talking. Please, Komar. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u49	Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we cannot vote on hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers, because the Cabinet of Ministers will only tell, we will listen and we will go. What you're saying is that we agree with it, and we want it to be what you're proposing, the agreement between the positions of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, there must be some kind of cooperation. But from listening to the information and not being able to discuss it, we are unlikely to be able to do so. The faction of the regions will not vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u50	The point is that we can talk about it, we can't now ask about the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on budget implementation, because all the information will be generalized much later. So we can only talk about the operational consideration of this issue in order to know what the real state of the economy is. This is a document prepared by the Court of Auditors, including information on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2005 and January 2006. It will be given to you, if not given, and it will be possible to ask questions and determine how this problem will be discussed. I think that all the interested parties and groups in order for Ukraine, people, society, to have objective information about the economic state of the country. Ludmila Pavlovna, please take the committee's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This question is extremely relevant to us. I can explain why we are necessarily asking for information, for the Cabinet of Ministers to hear about the state of implementation of government and local budgets for 2005 and for the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the budget in 2006. Two things that you and I need to pay attention to. First. We have leftovers in treasury accounts since 2005. The use of these balances in treasury accounts is possible only on one condition: if appropriate changes are made to the State Budget Act. If we don't, the funds will be on the treasury accounts, without use, that's 15 billion money that will be outside the financial balance of Ukraine. One second. We're having a huge change of tariffs for utilities today. The cost of gas is increasing. And we need to figure out how much money we need to add to the subsidy to keep the citizens protected. We don't have that kind of information today, we need to hear official accounts from the Cabinet of Ministers. Otherwise, citizens will not be able to pay themselves for utilities and energy, and the budget will not have enough money to pay off such debt. Therefore, with the aim of prejudice to this complex situation, with a view to protecting the interests of citizens, especially vulnerable groups, we certainly need to hear such information. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to implement the State Budget 2006 Act to adopt some 90 normative acts. These documents are not being prepared today. We received only three decrees on the committee instead of ten decrees. We want the Cabinet of Ministers to explain the reason for this delay in the implementation of the State Budget Act. If we don't see such a report, dear colleagues, it's going to be difficult for us to get into the budget by the end of 2006. Since the Supreme Council is finishing its work, I do not want us to finish our work and leave unpaid housing subsidies for citizens. Therefore, I am sure that I will support this offer. You can ask questions to the Cabinet of Ministers. And as a result of this consideration of information, we will prepare a draft regulation to determine what we will do with the 2006 State Budget, and how, in what extent we will need to make changes in order to protect the interests of citizens. The Cabinet report needs to be heard, as you know, only in May under the Law. A decision will be made to do so sooner. We'll do it sooner, but we need information.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for three minutes. Ludmila Pavlovna, please sit down. And the question to you is, I'm sorry. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u53	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Faction of the Party of the Regions, “Ukraine”. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, and honourable colleagues, national deputies, may vote in favour of this Order only in one case if this information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is written in such a procedure, in the form of a report, or information, and discussion, and questions. Otherwise you and I will have another pyar. We sat down beautifully, we provided beautifully, Ukraine became fashionable, desirable, and so on is the first. Answer: Is such a procedure foreseen? And the second mandatory warning to have our accounting office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine take part in this information. Otherwise, the point of this decision is lost, we're just going to get a 10-15 minutes propaganda speech: how we got to live better, happy, and we're going to have a bright orange future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u54	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we can write in the preparation of the materials: in which order we offer to listen to the information. Include an account report if you now assign an order and include a question for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, now in principle for us, are we considering this? Consider, procedure and order will be determined exclusively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But it's a question that's inconceivable, it's sensitive. So I think we need to seriously discuss it not in order to criticize each other, but to see what we can and should do during this period. So, I think it all depends on the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u56	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Perhaps there is a point for respectable colleagues to make this decision, because today we have examples with you when we were told that the 2005 budget was implemented in all its components. And I want to give you an example: people expected the gasification of the Grand Vergunka settlement in Luhansk, for which I was responsible, and, unfortunately, out of two million, 700,000 received only 300,000. They bought about 200 meters of pipe, they installed it, and it stopped. Therefore, I think it is absolutely right for those who say that the issue must be considered and absolutely right for those who insist that the procedure be as detailed as possible. Moreover, we should probably ask the question so that the Cabinet of Ministers gives us a vision in the form of a document, how it works, what prospects are being fulfilled and what will be done, and not that we will just hear the situation. That is why I think that, in any event, the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc will support this issue, because we believe that order is necessary. Next time, the Supreme Council will not be able to return to this topic until June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote in favour of this decree. And you, Ludmila Pavlovna, I'd like to do this. Today, the number of officials in the State Department has increased enormously — about 15,000. This is not serious simply at a time when computerization continues. To give it to me. And give us this help. Today we have to ask the question of reporting and tax administration, because, you know, after signing a memorandum signed between President Yushchenko, Yanukovic and Yehanurov, there has been a decline in discipline, a decline in income tax. It's gone down on what? Everybody's waiting, that's all. Impunity has gone away. And so I'd like to have both the tax report in this case, and the State Department, and let's listen here and to the impact of the economic situation, necessarily to have a report from the Court of Auditors, including at the local levels where we gave them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I think the committee's proposals will take these all into account and we'll figure it out. But I think when the government's report, whether it's the prime minister's duty or the minister of finance, they'll also talk about the tax administration's activities, yes. Well, let's figure it out, then. I'm voting on the Ukraine Supreme Council Resolution on Hearing Information from the Ukrainian Ministry of State and Local Budgets 2005 and the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the 2006 budget, registration number 9137. Please vote. [[11:02:29]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 49, Communists – 55, Block of Timoshenko – 9, People's Party – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 1, SPI – 26, National Block – 22, SDPU(O) – 9, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, “Rebirth” – 3, National Movement of Ukraine, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 13. Who, then, is the one voice that gave a positive result? Yes, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine is under review. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich with a motive. He will report to Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich, Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since we are about to move to a new section of the agenda, the faction of Communists, Cibenko, the Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I would like to address you with such a request. On the Conciliation Board of 20, I proposed, on behalf of the committee, to include in the agenda, in the chapter in the agenda and in fact, in Bill No. 9045. There were no objections on your part or on the part of members of the Conciliation Board. The document is distributed, there are conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, there is a committee decision. I think we need to eliminate this unfortunate misunderstanding today and include this bill in the corresponding chapter 9045.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u61	I'm asking the secretariat to study now, because there's something I can't remember that this is a bill and what kind of decision we've made. Please raise the protocol and the stenogram and provide information on this. Yes, the draft Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information is being considered. What? Please, Sas. Sorry, I didn't notice. Sergei Sass. Georgi Korniyovich, please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today, in a second reading, 25 drafts have been introduced. Up to 15 of them, the text is delivered only this morning, although article 6.6.1 should be distributed in accordance with the Rules no later than 12 days before the draft. In such a context, quality can be discussed. And next, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am still proposing that you put to the vote a proposal to include in the agenda the issue of removing parliamentary immunity from the local councils for insisting on our faction. And if the Supreme Council supports it, we'll have to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u63	At the same time, let's put this to a vote, it simplifies, and you'll talk less about it. There's a decision of the Conciliation Council, let's stick to it and I'll see how you vote for it. I know it's coming out. And we agreed that the esteemed colleagues who were going to produce the basic approaches were a report from the committee that we were going to make that decision. Let's work after all, I beg you. We've already made our decision. You remind me, by the way, of breaking the Rules, the issue has been considered twice and rejected, and you insist that I abide by the Rules. I'm asking you, let's not provide a selective approach. I know, please, everything's gonna be fine, it's gonna be fair. Please. A draft Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 9031. The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You may remember the difficulties we had in adopting the draft law. This law is now passed for second reading. He actually raised 293 votes in favour, but it was only because, on behalf of the committee, I promised that we would work on it and take into account the comments that would be made and expressed by the Ukrainian National Deputies and our legal authorities. I'll tell you, it's been very difficult working on this bill, and we're giving it to you right now. If you don't count the numerous editorial comments and suggestions, only 43, 37 are included, with the exact wording 4, two are not included, I'll report them. We have taken full account of the scientific experts ’ comments, and today we have dealt with all the issues related to this bill with the General Legal Office. What is the principle? The first thing you remember is that the law did not define the status of this service. Now it's working, and I'd like to say that it's not a military structure, but it takes a transitional period to move from military structure to military structure. I wanted to stress in particular that this is not a "listening" question, as some have. This is not "listening", it is a service that ensures the operation of a special government liaison, the protection of this link and the development of this structure. The subordination and subordination of this service, which was not there, are determined by the order in which the personnel are assigned. If you remember, the government bill said that “the heads of the service and other management officers are appointed in a fixed order.” We've completely deciphered it and written it down in this bill. Since this is not a military structure, it is not possible to apply the rules that apply to the assembly of this structure and the release of the personnel of the special forces employed in military formation. So we had to write these questions in very detail. And lastly, we had to write out a very detailed social block of this problem, because we can't apply those norms that are already written in other laws. With this in mind, the bill is being tabled. There are principles that need to be addressed immediately. After lengthy discussions, the committee proposes to change the title of the bill and to title it thus the Ukrainian Law on the State Information Protection Service. There were two options, and there was another option, “O.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u65	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u66	I'm going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u67	All the proposals are taken into account, so can we vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u68	We have to decide on the name. Suggested: For the State Information Protection Service. But Manchulenka has a different idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u69	Manchulenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u70	George Manchulenko, District No. 203, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, dear George Korniyovich. We have indeed had some discussion at the committee meeting about what name this body should be called, an extremely important body to strengthen Ukraine’s national security. I proposed calling it the Data Protection Service of Ukraine. Our thoughts are divided, and we have different approaches. What made me think that the word “State” should be deleted? Because there is some alogism that this should necessarily be written “public service”. Then it should be written “The Ukrainian State Security Service”, “The State Service for Foreign Intelligence” and similar services that perform the functions imposed on it by the State, but there is no indication that it is a public service. I therefore propose to vote that it be called the Data Protection Service of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u71	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u73	In fact, there was a sharp discussion at the committee meeting, most of the participants expressed their support for the proposal I read “About the State Information Protection Service”. In fact, the reason here is what Georgi Manoliyovich says, but we have precedents, we have a state special transport service, and no one has any warnings, and there are services. So this is for the decision of the Supreme Council. The committee proposed “State Information Protection Service”. As the members of the committee vote, the amendment can be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u74	Yeah. Dear colleagues, this is where the problem arose. May I have your attention, please? The draft law was entitled “For the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine”. It's a beautiful name. But a number of innovations were made. That is why there is insistence, so I will put to the vote to vote for this editorial amendment. If the Supreme Council supports it, this editorial amendment, then it will have an official name. No, there will remain the offer offered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u75	For, for, for, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u76	Yeah, right, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u77	It's not in principle, it's not in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u78	I'm voting on Amendment 1, authors: Manchulenko, Zarubinsky, Korz. People's deputies, please, will be determined by voting. Please make up your mind. [[11:13:14]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. The name of the law, the draft law, remains: the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine. What other amendments are out of the question? Philip Philipovich Budjigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u79	This is amendment number 19 on page 21. I know you as a person. And I realize that the committee basically agreed to my amendment. But I've asked you very much to remove total disagreement with other legislative acts that are and to specifically improve this law. Therefore, I propose that my amendment be adopted by the whole law as a whole. Thank you. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u80	We have considered this proposal. She hears this offer. But it's so worded and wide that, in principle, the question is that this service is doing the analysis of the relevant materials, this formula here is, and that's why we thought that we were unduly burdening this bill with such detail. But if Philip Philipovich insists, and the Supreme Council will vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u81	Vote number 19, by Philip Philipovich Budzigan. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:15:30.]] For 287 Correction counted. What other adjustments, who insists? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u82	But there's one more thing. When we were working with lawyers before we left here today, we have this proposal in transitional, final positions item six, sub-paragraph one, to make this supplement: “Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the question of determining the totality of the State Information Protection Service, based on the existing size of the Department of Special Communications Systems and the protection of information and relevant departments of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is being eliminated in connection with the reproduction of the State Information Protection Service.” And paragraph three.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u83	Is it consistent with you? It's agreed, dear colleagues. If there's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u84	With this in mind, please accept as a whole, but with regard to the name. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee offered to simplify the name, it is very difficult. Do you understand? And the concept of the State Information Protection Service essentially covers the trials. It covers because it protects a very special one. But it's not principled, it's not principled, but the committee made that decision, so probably.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u85	The point was, dear colleagues, it was an offer to clarify the name. We voted in favour of this proposal, it did not receive support, it remains the name of the law so that the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine remains. They voted for it. Taking into account the clarification that has just been made by the chairman of the committee, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law as the law governing the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. Registration number 9031. Please vote. [[11:18:01]] For-300 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 50, Communists – 53, Block Timoshenko – 6, National Party – 38, Our Ukraine – 38, SPI – 1, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 11, Rebirth – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 13, Reforms and Order – 13, non-fractional – 15. The motives are over. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity is being announced for consideration. [[on consumer co-operation]] Registration number 8168. The reporter is Philip Philipovich Budzigan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at the meeting on 14 December 2005, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, registration No. 8168, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine. [[on consumer co-operation]] He supported it and suggested that the Supreme Council should accept it as a whole, and 259 votes on January 18, this year, received it as a basis. In the process of drafting the bill, and it's very big, there's only two words change, there's no proposal from the national MPs. The bill was considered on February 8, 2006. There are only some observations made by the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. And I think there's an offer from the committee to adopt the bill in the second reading, well, and to take into account the observation of the General Legal Department. This is the position of the committee: to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u87	But taking into account the legal authorities' proposals. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. We'll vote. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, Bill No. 8168, taking into account proposals by the Legal Authority. Please vote. [[11:20:54]] For 297 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, Bill 7261, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Reported to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. More and more Ukrainian citizens are seeking justice from the European Court of Justice. In 2005, Ukraine took second place after Turkey in statistics of decisions taken by the European Court of Justice against Ukraine, including 120 decisions to be taken and implemented in Ukraine. And by every decision, the European Court of Justice found that the public authorities violated the rights of citizens. Therefore, the draft in the second reading, it is important that these decisions of the European Court of Justice and the subsequent ones, if adopted, should be properly implemented here in Ukraine. In the second reading, 18 amendments were made and all taken into account. Therefore, we believe that it would be possible to vote if no one had any principled comments on this law, on the enforcement of decisions by the European Court of Justice as a whole, and on the basis of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, who insisted and the amendments were not taken into account? There aren't any? Vasil Vasilovich, but I think let's actually listen to the legal administration that proposes one of the articles, namely the position of article 20 of the projects to move to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u90	We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u91	I think it'll be legally cleaner, and then we'll get him ready to sign. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u92	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u93	Then, with the Legal Office's proposal, I put to the vote on adoption as a whole as a law on the enforcement of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Registration number 7261, please vote. Taking into account the legal authorities ’ proposals. Vote. Democrats for the European Court of Justice [[11:23:37]] For 292 Yes, there are 292 Democrats in the room. The law is passed. The Bill of the Volunteer Movement is under consideration. Registration number 7550, reports Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich, secretary of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, you have before you the Law on Volunteering, registration number 7550. On the second reading, seven national deputies made amendments, the total number of amendments 34, including 14, partially counted one, rejected 19 amendments. The committee considers this law, and the observations that were taken into account. Those who are unaccounted for, in our view, exist in other laws already in Ukraine, and we have this confirmation -- a letter from the Ministry of Justice. And the questions discussed on the committee were all clarified, and today the committee is proposing to support the bill and accept it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, who have any comment on this bill? There are many who have been rejected: Zybenko, Akopiana, and others. Nobody insists? Don't insist. Orzhachowski, please. What's the correction? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Adam Ivanovich, I sincerely thank the Committee on Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism for taking into account and especially for my individual suggestions. As for proposals that are unaccounted for, I will not insist or argue on their vote and so forth. So I propose that we vote on this law, just as it is necessary. I think that the volunteer movement is promising, and it's waiting in our country. So I would like my colleagues to follow me, as they say, to stop discussing and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u97	Doesn't anyone insist? But I would like to ask your attention and ask the committee's opinion that the legal office wrote: “We believe that the bill needs to be redrafted and reintroduced for a second reading. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich! We asked the Ministry of Justice to explain all the observations we have made today by our Legal Office. They are clearly written down and, honourable colleagues, believe me, there are no problems today, today, regarding the legislation that is in the notes today. If we do, we will carefully consider, but with the National MPs' comments, if we go to the bill now, you will be able to see for yourself. Well, the main point was that such a law was not necessary, that this law could be included in the law “On the Unification of Citizens”, on other legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council, but we insist, because it is a specific law and volunteers today cannot evolve into the law “On the Unification of Citizens” because it is a specific association. One question today is to create a volunteer group, and we're going to be giving charity to the elderly, and the other is to work with drug addicts today, it's completely different. So we insist that today, and the Ministry of Justice supports us, that such a law should be on the same as the Youth Act, the Charity Act, the Professional Associations, and so forth. It's a specific law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u99	Thank you, but I, yours is the amendment, Carmazin? Is there an amendment? Let me see. But I'd like you to say a little bit more carefully that volunteers are specific and they claim to be their law because you're going to wake up every public organization, and we're going to have more than a thousand, and we're going to have to write them a law. Let's be a little more modest. I am voting on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a law of the law on volunteer movement, registration number 7550. Please vote. [[11:28:46]] For 209 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 3, Communists – 45, Timoshenko – 2, People's Party – 27, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialists – 22, “National Block of Lithuania” – 21, Social Democrats – 9, National Party of Ukraine – 15, “Rebirth” – 5, National Movement of Ukraine – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 6, “Reforms and Orders” – 6, non-fractional – 14. [[United]] Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Volunteers are people who voluntarily engage in charitable and non-profit activities that are extremely socially beneficial. Today we have children thrown away, I'll show you that there are children in the Blacks who collect crumbs. I'll show you how people are still starving today. So this is an extremely necessary law, and I read carefully the comments of the Legal Authority. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I am responsible for saying that some of them make sense, but we accept the political document as a political body. We have to give green light to the volunteer movement. No one understands us in the West, why they're reaching out to us, and we're refusing. We are disturbing ourselves here, so let us vote, Adam Ivanovich. A volunteer movement is needed, and what you said was that there was a remark, it had a little effect on the MPs. I ask you to put it again, we will return and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u101	Thank you too, Yuri Anatoliyovich, but I am surprised to hear similar statements from you, in the constituency of which the first city stands “the law, the law and the law again”. The political authorities are sitting in a higher place, and the highest legislative body is sitting here. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[11:31:04]] For 239. We're back. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the Law on Volunteering. Registration number 7550. Please vote. Carmazine, don't break the Constitution. [[11:31:28]] For 269 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the activities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee]] Registration number 0960. Budzigan Philip Philipovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has considered this bill at its meeting to amend some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 0960. [[on the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee]] I'm just going to remind you, for the first time, that I reported it on November 16, 2000. During this time, 47 proposals have been made to our committee, mainly concerning the implementation of specific provisions of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Conduct and the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition in accordance with the laws on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and on Protection of Economic Competition. Out of 47 offers, only one is rejected. The bill is initiated by the General Legal Authority with the observations the committee agrees with. And so they are proposing to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. It must be based on the findings of the General Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the remarks are all taken into account. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee]] Registration number 0960. Please vote. [[11:33:54]] Z-85 The law is off. Overruled. There is a draft Act on the provision of evidence in cases under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Registration number 3640. Budjigan Philip Philipovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u104	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment on February 7, this year, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Evidence of Matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee. Registration number 3640. Imported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The bill was adopted at the first reading on June 18, 2004. What is the bill aimed at? It is mainly aimed at improving the procedure for conducting an expert study in the Antimonopoly Committee and bringing it closer to the civilian process. But there were 107 proposals for the bill, of which 37 were rejected. The Chief Legal Authority in his observation similarly concludes that he is not very wise, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. There's one proposition. We can follow the changes that have been made if someone insists. And the second sentence will be put to the vote, and the results will be shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u105	Which one of the National Deputies? First amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the title of the law does not correspond to its substance. Since the Law, in addition to the law on the provision of evidence in matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee, amends the three other codes. I would like to emphasize, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. The Criminal Code, the Administrative Offences, the Civil Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition are amended. The adoption of amendments to these legal acts should take place in the form of separate laws, for each of these acts. I would like to point out that each of these codes had a serious expertise, each of these codes had a very thorough and expert opinion of the Council of Europe, and of the public organizations, and had an expertise in time. Therefore, by one stroke, by one nail in the same law, you cannot change sin with the righteous one. So I say, let's change the title of the law first, once. Actually, this law is raw. And the legal administration of the law. And all of this was understood by our comrade Budjugan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u107	Call your family right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, I'd put your amendment to the vote if it were specific. But you only made comments without making any suggestions. What other observations are there? You don't? Then I put to the vote the second reading as a whole as a law of the Law on the Provision of Evidence in Matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Registration number 3640. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:36]] For-80 Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm helping you. For 80, the law is rejected. There is a draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities, registration number 2424-1. Second reading. Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u109	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2003 and adopted by the Supreme Council on December 9, 2003 as well. Let me just remind you a little bit about this project. The bill defines organizational, legal and economic principles for the creation and operation of pawnbrokers, the provision of lombards, the regulation and supervision of and the provision of such services. The general objective of adopting this legislative act is to ensure the sustainable development and activity of pawnbrokers in Ukraine. Creating a proper competitive environment in the financial services market and protecting the legitimate interests of consumers. It should be noted that pawnbrokers as financial institutions occupy their niche in the financial sector of the state and are rapidly developing. Yes, some 330 pawnbrokers have been added to the state register today. Some of them have a pretty fragmented network of subunits. Today, we need to harmonize the activities of pawnbrokers, ensure the reliability and transparency of their activities, and protect the interests of pawnbrokers ’ customers. That's what this bill is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u110	Welcome to Juryovich. Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u111	Yeah, I'm in the middle of some amendments. The committee processed the proposals of the legislators, and a total of 198 amendments were made, 173 of which were taken into account as a whole, and 25 were rejected. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u112	Who among the national deputies insists on their amendments? There aren't any? Yes. Please, Boris Bespali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u113	Boris Bespalij, Yushchenka Block “Our Ukraine”. “Our Ukraine” supports this law as a whole because this area of activity needs to be regulated by law because it is financially related to money, and there may be different manipulative technologies. At the same time, there are some inadequacies in this law. For example, it is envisaged that laws and other legal acts are only applied to comply with this law in a part that is not contrary to this law. Such a rule is right for the Constitution that laws should not conflict with the Constitution. But to announce the Law on Lombards with a small Constitution, to find out where, when and so on, to put it above all other laws, agree, it is a little too much, the more that it is impossible to apply, and it will be just unnecessary commissions. I suggest you just delete it as absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u114	What kind of correction is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u115	194 Amendments This is the end of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u116	I think Boris Yakovitch here is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u117	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u118	Nor does the committee object. What other comments? You don't? Then I'm voting for adoption, taking into account what we've just agreed on, taking into account the exclusion from the final clauses as a whole, the law of 2424-1 on lombardas and lombardy activity. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:41:55]] For-154 Who's in charge of coming back? [[11:42:16]] For 165 The law is rejected. You don't have to do the second one again, because you won't be able to do it again. The next Parliament will write a good law, and we will adopt it. And we urge you, too, because you will go to the next Parliament. A bill of recognition is being considered, some decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Registration number 6015. Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the bill was adopted on December 21, 2004, on the basis of the first reading and the work of the Committee on Finance. The main objective of the project is to recognize that a number of legal acts have been lost and are based on their lack of relevance due to the fact that their standards have been exhausted or that they are regulated by Ukrainian laws. This is about 23 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and a decree of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u120	Vitaly Yuriovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. What you're saying is first reading, we're all reading it. What you're saying should be said on the first reading. In our second reading, we should talk about repairs! If they're counted, they're accounted for. No, why not. That's it. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just remembered why. Because it has been a year and a half since the first reading. Therefore, all the suggestions are considered and the request is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u122	Thank you. It's all taken into account, so we have reason to accept it as a law. Let us take a friendly vote on the Recognition Act in such a way that certain decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6015, have become invalid. Please vote. Vote. Let's hit the law on the decrees! [[11:44:29]] For 263 Thank you, the law has been passed. A draft law on securities and stock market, registration number 7818, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Holy Dmitry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Securities and Stock Markets Act, prepared for second reading. A working group was set up to deal with numerous proposals from legal entities in the Committee on Finance and Banking, involving representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, regulator, and all professional participants in the stock market. The bill received 152 amendments from Ukrainian national deputies. They're almost all accounted for. There are 27 amendments that either don't match the ideology of the bill, or they run counter to the existing legislation. Regrettably, in the absence of time, we have not been able to process the General Legal Administration’s observations, but for the transcript, I want to point out that they will necessarily be processed. The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on February 21, 2006, decided to recommend this bill for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u124	Thank you. There's only one thing I'm warning you: no committee can afford. Just what we're about to accept. So this is no longer allowed after the adoption of the law, except for legal technologies: coma, there or there. Who insists on their amendments? You don't? Then we vote. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the Securities and Stock Market Act, registration number 7818. Please vote. [[11:46:30.]] For 245 The law is passed. A draft Act on the National Environmental Fund is under consideration. Registration number 4508. Report to the head of the Hennaday Rudenko Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a second reading of the National Environmental Fund is being considered. The first reading took place in 2004, 72 proposals were made, 33 were taken into account for the second reading, 3 were taken into account, 37 were rejected, full-time observations and proposals by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. What is the principle of change in the bill? We were trying to create a vertical structure of the National Environmental Fund with branches in Crimea, in district centers, in Kiev and Sevastopol. And these offices are the organs of the foundation. Also defined is the legal status of the fund. He's a budgetary, non-profit institution, a legal person, and he's in the field of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. More clearly, transparently, the tasks assigned to the foundation. The fund’s income and its offices are allocated, in addition to the cost of pollution and the cost of special use of natural resources, clearly defined. What funds are expected to pay is the order in which to plan for pre-custodial measures. The fund’s governing bodies and offices are being set up, namely, the Supervisory Board, the Executive Directorate of the Fund and its departments. The order of formation and function and authorization is defined. I'd like to focus on what's out of the question. Not to mention, in particular, the position that many deputies wanted to leave the functions of the regional funds as they were. We're against this, in principle, because today, I'm informing you, more than 10,000 funds are in place. The average statistical prices just came in from the C.I.A., the 2003-2004 test. Here's what I'm telling you: coming to an average country fund in Ukraine was 600 dollars. Not to be allowed to take significant conservation measures in rural areas. According to the CDC, it is also noted that the failure of the State Fund’s expenditure planning system and the imbalance in the identified issue of local funds do not contribute to the expected results. As deputies, we are often approached by our electorate, by the regions that we can use to allocate funds to us from the Environment Fund. There is no transparent mechanism as to who decides. So the creation of the fund, in our view, especially parallel control structures, such as the Supervisory Board, the Executive Directorate, will allow, firstly, to require reports, to require a truly transparent funding mechanism from the relevant Environmental Fund. Therefore, there is a request to support the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u126	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments? Fortunately, there are no such ones. So I'm voting for adoption as a whole as the National Environmental Fund Act. Registration number 4508. Please be supportive. Ecology is important. [[11:50:13]] For-167 The factions, please. Yes, “Regions” – 10, Communists – 47, Block Timoshenko – 1, People's Party – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 17, Socialist Party – 17, National Block Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 2, Ukrainian People's Party – 15, “Rebirth” – 4, National Movement of Ukraine – 7, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 6, non-fractional – 8. [[United]] This may not be the vote of the factions that the government will form. They don't want to finance. Yes, who is in favour of re-reading this bill, please vote. [[11:51:12]] For-123 The law is rejected. There is a draft Act on the National Programme to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2002-2005 and for the period up to 2010, registration number 2085. Committee head Rudenko Hennaday, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the National Program to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is our debt, which has been hanging for quite some time behind the Supreme Council. I will remind you that in 1993 the concept of the National Programme for the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster was adopted. It was still determined that the program would be accepted. The National Programme project was developed in accordance with Ukrainian legislation on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster on the legal regime of the territory affected by the Chernobyl disaster. There is an analysis of the implementation of the 1996-2000 national programme, and on the basis of this analysis it should be concluded that the priorities of these tasks were not clearly defined when performing the tasks foreseen in 1996-2000. So they've been trying to make this more and more clear in the new program and make it more effective. I recall that, in general, more than 162 thousand people were evacuated and relocated from the places of permanent residence during the Chernobyl disaster. The relocation has created a number of serious problems related to the difficulties of adapting citizens to new living conditions. The current state of health of citizens affected by the disaster is also a crisis. The National Programme provides for the main protection of the health of persons affected by the disaster, strengthening the support of radiation safety barriers, and the protection of populations in areas affected by pollution, improving social protection for those affected by the disaster, and rehabilitating areas and communities. In general, there were 189 proposals from different institutions. As a result, 138 proposals were taken into account, 25 proposals were rejected, and 26 proposals were partially taken into account. In its work, the committee tried to pay particular attention to the environmental rehabilitation of contaminated areas and health care and the employment of affected citizens. There is a point made by the General Legal Authority. This conclusion is, you can analyze it yourself. We also agree with individual comments and propose that the deadline for the introduction of the bill be from 2007. I also want to point out that the 20th anniversary will already be April 26th, there will be appropriate parliamentary hearings and we would be useful, honourable colleagues, to go to a parliamentary hearing with an accepted program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u128	Who insists on law enforcement? Solomonine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u129	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the first amendment made by our faction by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko. The substance of the amendment is to define the name of the document as follows: “About the concept of the National Program to minimise the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster until 2010”. Why the Concept? Because over the years, when the National Programme for Reducing Consequences did not have a positive impact, you and I went along with you on the path of approving detailed farmed greenhouse gas treatment, clean drinking water, and today we're going to consider and confirm agriculture, agricultural production in polluted areas. And that's why in this document that we're looking at with you today, there are no deadlines for the execution of individual units or performers. It's more, really, still a concept. So we're very much asking you to put this amendment to the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u130	Yes, please, Gennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u131	The committee has been looking at this amendment and we believe that we do have a concept that has been approved by the Supreme Council Order since 93. We believe that it may be necessary to come up with such a name, this is the “State Overcoming Program”, because there have been disputes or to leave “minimization”, but we believe that the term “overcoming” is more real, more serious for such a document. So the final edition is the National National Programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u132	No, it's probably oil. Or national or national.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u133	A state-wide program.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u134	Let's see, there's no objection to the state programme. Is there no objection? Then with these amendments, called the state-wide program, that's one thing. And second, that's the law. Your proposals are not ignored, and the committee has supported them. That's the first one. The second, which has been introduced since 1 January 2007, please vote. [[11:57:16]] For 124 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 34, Communists - 23, People's Party - 15, "Our Ukraine" - 2, Block Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 7, Ukrainian People's Party - 9, National Block Lithuania - 21, Social-Democratic Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 2, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 8. [[united]] The law is rejected. The draft Law on the National Programme for Agricultural Production in the Area of Radioactive Pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster is under consideration for 2005-2015. [[second reading]] Anatoly Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The bill was amended by 88 deputies after the first reading. The Committee is grateful to all the deputies who have participated in its work. At its meeting, the Committee considered the amendments in detail and they were all taken into account. On first reading, 318 members of the people voted in favour of the bill, and therefore we have every reason to adopt it on second reading and generally as a law. The Committee submits this proposal for your consideration and requests its support. And one such detail for the protection of this law, though we read, was, in the first reading, the law was intended to protect the environment, and the main thing was human health. It is in this area today that there are some 600,000 inhabitants. The population, of which 180,000 Children. Whether we want to or not, they are engaged in economic activities, including agricultural production and food consumption. According to scientists and physicians, 90 per cent of additional radiation is derived from the consumption of these foods. Therefore, rehabilitation or minimization of these consequences, we must consider and accept with you. The constitutional obligation of all authorities to protect their fellow citizens. Therefore, we sincerely hope for your understanding of the importance of the problem and the friendly support of this bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments even though they are all taken into account? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the Law on the Universal Programme for Agricultural Production in the Territory which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster 2005-2015. Registration number 7133. Please vote. [[12:00:21]] For 172 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – o, Communists – 51, Block of Timoshenko – 2, People's Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialist Party – 20, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 21, Social Democrats – 10, Ukrainian People's Party – 11, “Rebirth” – 7, People's Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrial and Business Party – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 4, Postfraction – 8. [[United]] Who's in charge of coming back, please vote? [[12:01:07]] For a hundred and The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, it's a good time, that's all. And two factions ask for breaks: the Socialist Party and the BUIT. In honor of the festival, a break of 30 minutes is announced and two factions are required. At 12:30, we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u137	At military pace. But given that we had the opportunity to announce the break, we were given two factions, so please, on what occasion? Please. Please, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u138	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, the days leading up to the elections are much to say about the fight against corruption. Yet, all these assurances seem to be gross populism. And all of this will remain empty as long as they remain untouched at the local level. Today, the mass of crimes is not exposed and criminals are not planted for playing on the grounds that local councils do not allow them to be held criminally liable. Why is the issue not resolved? That's a simple answer. For large sums of money, large local authorities bought seats on some party lists to local councils and then bought indulgence not only for the past but also for future crimes. In the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, there are a number of bills, including those introduced by the members of our faction by Belarus and other colleagues, to eliminate the intrusiveness of members of the local level. And we urge the Main Committee to consider this issue as a matter of urgency, and not later than tomorrow, the matter has been brought up for consideration by the Supreme Council. And I have the authority to state that if tomorrow's issue of depriving members of the local level of immunity will not be introduced into the session hall, the block of the Yulia Timoshenko will have to block the rostrum and we will not vote. But I would also like to point out that not only are corruption crimes recorded in the assets of local deputies, but they are enough. Breaking and breaking and entering. Remember, there's a vacchanal everywhere. And in Mukachev, it was the MPs at the local level. And where is the guarantee that the same will not happen in the next election? What? The criminals will still be covered in parliamentary badges? Similarly, appropriate changes must be made to the Constitution and to the removal of the immunity of members of the Supreme Council. The truth is that the law is only the law when all are equal before it. Thank you all. And especially you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! In the Supreme Council, everything is decided by a vote, not by a vote. So calm down. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5753, is under consideration. [[on the social protection of the population living in observation zones]] Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich, be easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! Act 5753, which provides for the protection of the population living in an atomic station zone from possible risks and adopted on first reading, was widely discussed on second reading. A total of more than 40 amendments were received, including from various committees, ministries and agencies. Following an active discussion by the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, a number of amendments made by the ministries and departments of Ukraine have been agreed upon or withdrawn. As early as yesterday neither the Ministry of Fuel and Energy nor the Ministry of Emergency Situations nor the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee had any comments on the project. We have not taken into account the Ministry of Health's observation that, while they do not have a health monitoring method, we have not considered this sufficient reason to reject this law. In addition, we have taken into account the proposal of the Scientific and Expert Office that the bill on the mandatory preparation of the Cabinet of Ministers should be adopted by appropriate procedures and methods from the date of publication and the law itself should be in force as from 1 January 2007. The Committee strongly requests that you support the bill as a whole. In second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Konstantinovich, because your hands will need to be now. Yeah, no one's insisting on their amendments? Please invite people's deputies to vote. We have to vote. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on social protection of the population living in observation zones. Registration number 5753. Please be supportive. Vote. It's a necessary law for people. [[12:37:16]] For 210
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u142	Yes, please show by factions: “Regions” – 45, reserve is, communists – 53, Timoshenko – 31, reserve is, the People's Party – 20, “Our Ukraine” – 2, socialists – 6, reserve is, “National Block Lithuania” – 21, Social Democrats – 10, Ukrainian People's Party – 7, “Rebirth” – 11, National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 4. [[United]] Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. I'm voting on a motion to return to the vote. Please. Leonid Mikhailovich, get into work. Let's give you a word. Get in the business. [[12:38:21]] For 203
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u143	But no, once again the second will be the same fate. Dear colleagues who are outside the session room, I ask you to come into the session room. Now write down three minutes of motive. For three minutes, write your motives down. Bronnikov. School to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The bill that you are proposing is extremely up to date, as you know how resonant you have even made a preliminary decision about construction. Because you know the problems we have in Ukraine with gas resources and we have the only resource is nuclear energy. And we must be confident that the population will be protected and socially supported in the development of nuclear energy in Ukraine. The bill has no political implications, so I strongly ask him to support all members of all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u145	Thank you. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u146	Thank you. I think that this bill needs to be supported and our faction, you see, voted in full for this bill because it really has a very social character and it's going to talk about what the budget is going to do, because we're talking about electricity pay, and in principle, I'm confident that the state is going to come back to those people who need to be protected, who can't protect themselves, help themselves, and they need to be protected, help them, and for everyone else who can take care of themselves, the state shouldn't interfere. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Why? First. Because it really makes it possible to feel, say, the state's concern for itself. And the second is that he's actually serious. I'm talking to all those who think it can cause budget damage. It doesn't cause budget losses, but it does help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u147	Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u148	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, we still need to mobilize and vote. Because when we talk about incomparable things: the protection of the population living in a 30km zone from the possible consequences of an accident at an nuclear power plant, ask my colleague on the People's Block of Litvina Oluiko, he was elected from one of those areas. People keep telling him that we can't compare any discussions about the cost of the budget with the need for a decent life and a decent guarantee to the people who live there. So it turns out that they live in these zones, and therefore they must live there as securely as possible, feeling that the country, the State, is taking care of them. Therefore, I am absolutely in solidarity with all colleagues who propose to support this bill, and I invite the members of the People's Block of Lithuania to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u149	Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u150	Bogdan Kostinuk, National Movement of Ukraine, “Our Ukraine” Block. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the idea set forth in this bill. But it looks like we need to work on it. And so we propose to re-read and support this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u151	Jaroslav Suhi. Dry, your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I would hate to see the protection of people, social protection, psychologically, if you will, of people living in nuclear power stations as a different coin in political games. If anyone had any comment on the bill, he would simply be obliged to submit it. Now in the session room to say in a loud voice that there's something there that needs to be read again, it's not serious, at least. So I'm proposing as Ukrainian national deputy from Zaporozhye, and I know what is a 30-kilometre zone around Energodar, through Dnipro in Nikopol, and I know what kind of tension all these people are in. And they demand of us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the adoption of this bill. So I think it would be appropriate to accept it now, mobilizing all the healthy, not the sick forces of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, a few moments. First, if we send him to read again, that means that we sent him very far, very far, that's one thing. Second, those who are experiencing, I understand that if someone is worried about budget spending or other expenses, it's a legitimate experience. But by adopting the law today, we do not put a dot, for we have a guarantor of the Constitution who has the right to promise the Law, to promise the Law, if the Government, if the Government finds out that this Law has no basis and so on, he will make a proposal. And as they say, it will be the last word for those who have it under the Constitution to do so. I'd like to ask you, let's vote. I support Bronnikov that the Law bears neither political nor antipolitical nor party, nor any meaning. He pursues one goal — at least to give a crumb to those who breathe an atom. Let us be merciful. I am voting on a motion to return to the vote on a bill to amend some of Ukraine's social protection laws that live in observation zones. Registration number 5753. Please vote. [[12:44:59]] For 255 We're back. I'm looking at the adoption as a whole as a law of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the social protection of the population living in observation zones]] Registration number 5753. Please vote. [[12:45:30.]] For 261 Thank you, copy. According to factions: “Ukraine” - 58, Communists - 49, Block Timoshenko - 37, People's Party - 37, Our Ukraine - 3, Socialists - 22, National Block of Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 16, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, Rebirth - 5, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 1, Reform and Order - 0, Postfraction - 5. [[United]] We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, registration number 8123. [[on compensation for settlement of a 30km risk zone for the deployment of nuclear power plants]] Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! We have adopted a law with you on first reading, which naturally tells the population living in the 30km zone: “Since your territory produces a huge amount of electricity, which is so needed in Ukraine as a whole, you have a tariff of 50 per cent of the tariff that operates in Ukraine. The bill was carefully considered at the committee meeting. More than ten amendments have been received there. And there is a note by the National Commission on Electricity that says that the bill will be finalized in the process of changing tariff policy. However, the substance of the bill, which provides for a relative reduction, i.e. 50 per cent, will continue to develop, which will also contribute to the development of those territories, which will contribute to Ukraine's energy supply. The draft was supported by the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee, second reading supported by a scientific expert with the same emphasis that the bill had been introduced since 1 January 2007, and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare for the introduction of the Act had been in force since the law was published. Please support this bill, which is also necessary for our economy, and most importantly for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u155	Honorable colleagues! The point is that those who live in a 30-mile zone have the opportunity to pay 50% for electricity. That's the whole point of the law. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law of the Act on the Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, registration number 8123. [[on compensation for the settlement of a 30-thicylmeter risk zone for the deployment of nuclear power plants]] Let's be friendly. Vote. Vote, the law will be passed anyway. [[12:49:07]] For-286 Thank you. The law is passed. In general, in general. It's all in general. You can do it in factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 56, Communists – 54, Block of Timoshenko – 38, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 15, Socialists – 16, “National Block of Lithuania” – 12, Social Democrats – 13, Ukrainian People's Party – 6, “Rebirth” – 5, National Movement – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 6, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 7. [[United]] We've already voted. What a motive. Thank you, on your behalf, thank you all for voting. Just thank you. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the enjoyment by persons with disabilities of the right to employment, registration number 3668. Jaroslav Suhiy, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I will speak in such a way that even representatives can understand the matter. The purpose of adopting Bill 3668 is to create equal opportunities for people with disabilities to have productive and adequately paid jobs. Complementing a number of laws with provisions that will improve the vitality of persons with disabilities and create conditions for social integration. We have demonstrated in this session hall, on many occasions, the good will and understanding of what is among our citizens, the population that needs first attention from the legislative branch of power. This is absolutely necessary. During the second reading bill, all comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were removed. The position of the project was in line with the regulations and requirements of existing legislation, and it was translated into legal practice. In the process of drafting, the committee considered 65 legislative proposals, all taken into account, 56 counted, not including those that do not apply to the bill. We thank the deputies who made the proposals, we didn't consider them, because they only show that the MPs want to improve the bill. What is proposed in this bill and in order to understand those who do not know how to vote or not to vote. The Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities introduces the 1801 rule, which defines the concept of “unemployed persons with disabilities”. The Law on the Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment of an unemployed disabled person or person staying in his detention guarantees the right to pay for the funeral. I don't think we should be allowed to receive funeral aid in such a right to refuse an unemployed disabled person. Amendments to the Employment Law specifically provide for the right of persons with disabilities to be recognized as unemployed if they have reached retirement age. So these novels, these proposals that are being made in law, will help to strengthen the protection and realization of the right of persons with disabilities to work, and A will also enable the creation of socio-economic, organisational, legal conditions to increase the level of employment and professional training of persons with disabilities. I call upon the session room once again, we have not once demonstrated here the good will and understanding of this extremely difficult position in which part of the Ukrainian citizens are found. Please, the committee proposes and urges that this bill be supported as a whole in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is that clear? We are voting as a law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the enjoyment by persons with disabilities of the right to employment. Registration number 3668. We have a friendly vote. [[12:53:33]] For 298 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Notaryate Act, a second reading, is under consideration. Registration number 2338. Musiak Victor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been in preparation for almost 10 years. For the last four years, it has been prepared by our Committee of Legal Policy, with the participation of the Ministry of Justice and various professional structures of the Notariat. I remind you that the law comes out of the special role of notary in the non-judicial protection of the rights and legitimate interests of individuals and legal persons in civil and legal matters. This implies, on the one hand, the need for State regulation and the control of notary activity, on the other hand, the existence of guarantees of an impartial and independent position of the notary, which should ensure trust in the notary itself, his individual and the individual of a physical or legal person who applied to the notary for the recognition of civil rights and legitimate interests. This law introduces a new transparent and professional order for the preparation of citizens for notary activities, their admission to this activity, which will meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, international human rights instruments. [[on the freedom of a person to have access to professional activities of a notary]] The law creates a single notary, provides legal organisational conditions for Ukraine to join the international notary and develop international cooperation of the Ukrainian notary. The law provides a real opportunity for a citizen to become a notary; it does not restrict or establish new rights and not subject to regulation; it introduces the necessary principles and mechanisms for civilised service of the enjoyment of civil rights and freedoms of citizens, legal persons, territorial communities under the single rules and introduces a fair social distribution of expenses between all participants in the notary circulation required for the normal functioning of the mechanism. I have to tell you that I may not be wrong now that all notaries are waiting for our decision, because it is necessary to bring the Constitution into line with the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, to take into account all those novels that were introduced into Ukrainian legislation after the adoption of the Act on Notariat in 1993. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u159	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. The only thing you haven't said is what the decision is going to be: positive or negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u160	I think everyone knows which one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I address those who have contributed. Strutovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u162	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine, the Christian Democratic Union. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, you remember that on December 15, I was one of the opponents of this bill in connection with the fact that the bill was passed out the day we listened to it. Now you've given it away in three days. But if you go to the General Legal Office, it says here that the bill requires substantial further elaboration and re-reading. Let me give you an example. Then, at Adam Ivanovich's headship, we voted Amendment No. 16, where 236 votes were approved that the criminal case concerning the Notarius could be violated by the Attorney-General and his deputies, city prosecutors, areas or Sevastopol, as well as by the court, in cases foreseen by the Criminal Procedure Law. The room has already voted on this amendment, and you write in this table “refused”. So how do you vote for the amendments to be taken into account, I'm not saying that the other amendments are clearly not taken into account, which I have tabled before this bill. So I don't think this bill is ready for another hearing today. You need him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u163	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I think we should consider, if you insist, all your suggestions and I'll explain why a decision has been made. And based on the first reference to the 14th amendment, and then the general conclusion is that this bill is not ready, I think that's an unreasonable conclusion. So about the 16th amendment. You know, it was about a bill that was sent to read again at your suggestion. Indeed, this proposal was then voted by the Supreme Council. And I did not oppose that offer of yours. But when a new edition was being prepared before this second reading, criminal law professionals pointed us out that in 2001, there was an amendment to article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for the right of the judge to file a criminal case when the application is a citizen for rape. And of all the other circumstances that he will see as evidence of a violation, he must send an appropriate representation to the prosecutor’s office. So here's what I want to say. The first reading cast a vote on the Criminal Procedure Code, where such a right is no longer available, does not provide for a judge's right to the future. That's why I think we have the basis here for the formulation that is proposed. Next. I don't know what other suggestions you might have. I'm ready to answer them. Why we did not consider them for one reason or another. But I want to tell you in general. Once you've generally reached a conclusion on the bill. As a whole, if you make the proposals you make, a number of them simply conflict with existing legislation and the Constitution, even if they do not meet the challenges of notary reform, violate the modern principles of international notariat, do not answer them. And it's actually going to happen if we go in this case, there's not going to be a real change in notary reform, there's going to be a simulation of notariat reform and there's going to be total bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u164	Thank you. Who else has notes? None. I'll put it to a vote. Please, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Stratov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u165	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! Article 9, Amendment No. 18. I was asked to remove at the end of the rule on State regulation the word “to what” because I believe that every law cannot have an evaluation concept and under the word “to what” run any action on State regulation, it must contain a comprehensive list of functions as the state regulates notary activity. This article points out how state regulation is implemented, and the word “to this end” means that any State’s demand to regulate the activity of notaries can be challenged. Please explain why the correction is not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u166	Victor Lavrentiovich, may we agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u167	Thank you. Come on, we can count, but there's one nuance. I'll tell you why. The question is why. The point is that this emphasizes that there may be other circumstances that may be provided for by law. It is said that this is not an exhaustive list; this list may be extended. But still, if there are new situations, they only have to appear in the law, only in the law, in this law that regulates notary activity. Yuri. ‘ I agree, I’m explaining why. Please, I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u168	They agreed. What kind of adjustments? Then, with the consent of the amendment, I put to the vote the whole adoption, as a law, of the Notariat Act, registration number 2338. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:06]] For-140. The factions. “Regions” – 14, Communists – 0, Block Timoshenko – 2, People's Party – 23, “Our Ukraine” – 13, Socialists – 10, Block Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 12, 14 – Ukrainian People's Party, “Rebirth” – 8, National Movement – 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 10. [[United]] What are we doing? To the others again. I'm making a motion for re-reading the law. [[13:03:57]] For-183 The law is rejected. Yes, we were about to consider the draft Law on the Temporary Order of Financing of the Judiciary in Ukraine, but the committee is not ready, there is no comparative table. [[Registration number 4189]] I'm paying attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the committee leaders, remember Mondays? When we're going to the Conciliation Council, everyone's going to the party -- turn it on, turn it on, turn it on! And it's fair then that people's MPs say that we get laws on the last day before the vote. Let's count our forces. The draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine, second reading, is under consideration. [[on the management of stock companies]] [[Registration number 5594]] Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. I can't see. Well, here, dear fellows, one of them was the amendment of the people's MP Musiyaki. It's counted. There are no more amendments. That's why I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the management of stock companies]] [[Registration number 5594]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:41]] For 105 Not supported. Who is responsible for rereading the second reading? [[13:06:04]] For 109 A little bit more. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments is under consideration. [[on housing assets]] Tanjuk. None. Yeah, let's see. Suggestions. It's a one-off offer. 2, 3, 4 is all accounted for. We have every reason to vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage. [[on housing assets]] Registration number 8598. Please vote. Vote. [[13:06:59]] For 223 Dear colleagues, mobilize! I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage. Registration number 8598. Let us preserve history. Vote. Vote, vote! “Regions”, support! Good law. [[13:07:40]] For 236 Thank you. The law is passed. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. [[on compensation for the loss of income of residential-communal enterprises]] Registration number 3513-d. Budjigan Philip Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment has considered the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Price Creation, registration number 3513, prepared for second reading, and invites the Supreme Council to accept it on second reading and as a whole. [[on compensation for the loss of income of residential-communal enterprises]] The bill is designed by the Chief Legal Authority without any notice. I also have to tell you that the Supreme Council was already considering the draft of the bill on June 2, 2005, but it was not accepted: only 125 national MPs voted for it. I would like to remind you that the purpose of this project is to provide a legal way of compensating for the cost of household income in the event of the approval of tariffs for services to the population below the economically sound cost of their production. Four suggestions came in: two counted, two rejected. The committee asks you to accept it as a law in your second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's accept, with only one amendment, that it has been introduced not since the first of 2006 but since the first of January 2007. With such an amendment, I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Law on Prices and Prices, registration number 3513-d. It's in a year. Please vote. [[13:10:03]] For 267 The law is passed. The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, registration number 5111, is under consideration. [[on expert research]] [[second reading]] Philip Philipovich Budzigan from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee considered on February 7, 2006, the bill — for the purpose of the transcript — “Protection of Economic Competition”, registration number 5111 from 11.02. 2004 introduced by the national deputy, Oluik. The Law was adopted by the Supreme Council at the first reading on January 11, this year. It aims to improve the procedure for conducting an expert review of the antitrust committee and to bring it closer to the civilian process. One proposal came into the bill, it's counted. The draft Law is initiated by the principal legal administration without notice. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u172	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Registration number 5111. Vote. [[13:11:36]] For 272 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities is under consideration. [[new editor]] [[second reading]] Registration number 6073. Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Vladimir Kirilovich, go to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u173	Honourable National Deputies, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Auditing Activities, was adopted at the first reading on October 6, 2005. “For” was voted by 255 deputies. The committee’s second reading included 68 suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. Seven suggestions have been rejected, two of which are technical. The rest of the proposals are taken into account in whole or in part. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at its meeting on January 17th this year considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Auditorial Act, prepared for a second reading, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a second reading and as a whole, as the Law. This is an extremely important area of activity that has not yet been regulated. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u174	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich, Dear colleagues, no one insists? No, it's not. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing, registration number 6073. Please vote. [[13:13:47]] For 228 The law is passed. Yes, they should have considered the draft Coal Gas Act, registration number 4451, but the committee did not prepare. We're moving. A draft Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, registration number 7728, is under consideration. [[resecond reading]] Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a second reading of the draft Law on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agro-industry complex, registration number 7728. When the project was further developed, there were 109 proposals, of which 64 are included, 45 are rejected, as they narrow down the operation of engineering systems to the management order of the system. Dear National Deputies! The law is extremely important in terms of the material and technical provision of an agro-industrial complex of agricultural enterprises. The committee's asking him to support it. And out of all the regions of agriculture, there's a call for support for the bill. And I'm asking you to back up the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u176	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Yes, respectable colleagues are largely accounted for. Nobody insists? The village is dying, we have to support it. Even those who led him to do so admit it. I am voting on the Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, registration number 7728. Please vote. [[13:16:09]] For 263 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Law on Meat and Meat Products, registration number 8060, is under consideration. Tereshuk Sergey. You don't? Yes, please, let's watch. Fellow workers, no, it's not milk, it's meat and meat. It's all taken into account, all the proposals, all the proposals are taken into account, so I'm putting a vote on the motion for adoption as the meat and meat products law, registration number 8060. Please vote. [[13:17:05]] For 278 The law is passed. We'll be with the meat, I guess. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 7561, is under consideration. [[on the right of the accused]] Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u177	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The Honourable Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, was reviewed by the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on second reading. [[on the right of the accused]] A second reading of the bill included 25 suggestions. These were proposals made by the people’s deputies of Ukraine, Markusz, Alexander Markovich Bandurko, and Sadov’s colleague. All of these proposals are taken into account. The committee recommends the adoption of the prescribed bill in the second reading, and if there are no warnings, as a law as a whole. Although I do have one for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u178	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. All corrections, respectable colleagues, accounted for. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the right of the accused]] Registration number 7561. Vote. [[13:18:45]] For 178. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” - 2, Communists - 53, Block of Timoshenko - 24, People's Party - 30, “Our Ukraine” - 2, Socialists - 14, “People's Block of Lithuania” - 21, Social Democrats - 9, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, “Rebirth” - 9, Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - Zero, “Reforms and Orders” - 1, non-fractional - 10. [[United]] Who's in charge of rereading? [[13:19:31]] For 175 The bill was rejected. Draft Act on Supplementing the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption actors]] Registration number 5315. Please, Stratovich Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! To implement Supreme Council resolution 3110, 3111 of 18 November, the Committee on Organized Crime prepared for re-reading Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act, introduced by the People's MP Moroz, and Ukraine's draft amending the Ukrainian Law on Combating Corruption, introduced by the National Deputy Kosinov. [[registration 5315]] [[on the definition by entities of corruption and other offences related to corruption of directors and other persons of state-owned enterprises and organizations]] [[No. 5315-1]] [[on corruption and other corruption-related offences]] The bill, registration number 5315, proposes to recognize corruption and other offences involving corruption, managers and other state enterprises, institutions, organizations that will increase the personal responsibility of the director for the adoption or failure to take and implement administrative decisions, as well as the responsibility for unlawful service offences of his subjects. The bill, registered 5315-1, proposes to include in the circle the likely corruption of the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers and military officials of the Armed Forces and other military formations. I am informing you that the bills mentioned above have been technically developed according to the second reading transcript of the drafts, since no proposals have been made from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to re-second reading. As to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority for the second reading of draft laws on the basis of a single bill, it should be noted that according to the Rules on the Unification of Bills, namely, which of the bills is adopted as a basis, is decided only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to approve them as a basis. In doing so, I want to point out that when I consider Bill 5315 in my second reading, I have expressed my opinion, which is different from the decision of the committee, which is the addition that is being submitted, that is inappropriate. Since heads of state - owned enterprises, if they are government officials, should be accountable as civil servants and provided for by a valid law. As business leaders, they are not the bearers of authority, have no authority, and are not subject to corruption. However, the Supreme Council did not take this proposal into account, and it decided to resubmit the bill for a second reading. Thus, in view of the foregoing, it is important to note that the issue of unified bills is conceptually problematic. That is why I am leading this situation to the knowledge of the Supreme Council, and I ask the vote to resolve it. Thus, with regard to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[registration 5315]] [[on the definition of corruption and other offences involving corruption of managers and other persons of state-owned enterprises]] The committee does not recommend that it should be read as a law in general. Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u180	We're going to vote each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u181	Two bills. So 5315 we're proposing not to vote, not to say no, because the heads of state enterprises, if they're government officials, answer as government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u182	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, another committee made a decision. You've already said your opinion. Don't get too emotional on the rostrum. Yes, I am voting on the adoption, as the Law, of the Law on the Complementation of Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption actors]] Registration No. 5315. Please vote. [[13:23:48]] For-119 Overruled. We are now voting on the draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption-related offences]] [[resecond reading]] Registration No. 5315-1. All comments taken into account. I vote like the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u183	Please be supportive. [[13:24:24]] For-286 The law is passed. We should now consider the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or a diversion. [[second reading]] Registration No. 2402. But the committee didn't prepare. We're moving. The draft Food Banks Act is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration No. 3259. This is from the Suskevich Committee. Please, Bezpali, there is a note. Bespalogo microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u184	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, Yushchenka Block “Our Ukraine”. My 40th amendment refers to that definition of “voluntary”. Actually, "voluntary" is a person who works for free. There's the essence of volunteering in which it doesn't look. There may be other workers who are actually doing useful work for public organizations. I don't deny it. But then they're not called volunteers. So in defining volunteerism, I think it's appropriate to determine that it's a volunteer working on a free basis. And they're already hired, well, other workers can work for the reward. That's normal, too. That's the first offer. Adam Ivanovich, I still have some repairs. And I would also like to take advantage of my right to argue on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u185	Boris Jakovic, what law are we talking about? Food banks or volunteering?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u186	Food banks. But there is a definition of volunteering. 40th. No, 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u187	40th article, insists Boris Yakovitch on the vote. Please vote. Don't you insist? Take down the vote. Yes, please, it's Boris Yakovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u188	Yes, thank you. I, Adam Ivanovich, do not insist, I just want to express my position in two more situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u190	120th Amendment. It is predicted that the Ukrainian National Federation of Food Banks can grant this status to only one association of food banks. This is a monopolization of this activity. And it can't be that way. Because they're public organizations. What are we doing? The law defines the monopoly of a public organization and the part that refers to food supplies, or material things. So this is my 119th amendment, which, unfortunately, is out of the question. And by the way, the 125th is also related to the creation of such a monopoly monster. There can be no such thing. That's why I'm asking you to respond to this part. And also, Adam Ivanovich, I have a third amendment. I'd like to say the same thing about her.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u191	Yes, please, turn on Boris Yakovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. And the third principle of observation, which concerns the formation of resources, the food resources of a public organization. There is a provision and this is the most important amendment, the fact that government reserve products can be useful. So that's what we're proposing. So that from the public reserve, the monopolistic public organization can form its own resources and continue to distribute them. It's a pyramid. So I want to say, this is actually a good idea -- food banks, it's implemented in many countries, but as it's written here, it could be a monopolistic public organization that uses a Reserve and monopolies, and yet its employees get the rewards, the pay volunteers, I think that's not exactly what Ukraine needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u193	All right, we had an exchange of thoughts. With that in mind, we'll put it to a vote. I'm voting for adoption as a whole, like the Food Banks Act, 3259. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:01]] For-195 Who's in charge of coming back? [[13:29:22]] For 206 Who is responsible for the rereading of the second reading? [[13:29:47]] For 213 The law is rejected. We should now consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration 6433. [[on job creation]] The committee didn't prepare. Once again, dear colleagues, make reasonable suggestions on the plan. With the first volume, we're done for today. Let's go to the other one. Let us turn to the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 13 January 2006, registration number 3187-1. Deputy Justice Minister Gorbunova Lydia Mikolayevna. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u194	The Honourable Head of Nationals, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as you know, on December 22, 2005, following a re-examination of President Sevastopol's proposals, the Ukraine's Act on the City of the Hero of Sevastopol was adopted for the third time. This law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, as it is contrary to the Constitution and a number of Ukrainian laws. You can give a few examples, because all of the President's proposals, I think you know very well, and you've already studied them and you have your arguments. I want to stop at some of the President's important proposals for this law. That is, the provisions of the law relating to the definition of the special status of the city of Sevastopol on the basis of the establishment of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, which cannot comply with article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which foreign military bases are not permitted in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u196	In addition, the stated provisions of the law do not match.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u197	Lydia Mikolayevna, please wait. Dear colleagues, men of honor, despite the fact that your day of celebration is near, the eighth of March is near, but on the rostrum is a woman. Behave yourself. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u198	In addition, the law provides for the allocation within the city of Sevastopol of the districts, and is maintained as an independent administrative and territorial unit of the city of Inckerman, villages and villages. This legitimizes the existing system of administrative and territorial units, which is now in conflict with articles 132, 133, 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In order to legitimize this, changes to the Constitution of Ukraine must be made first. Because of the special status granted to Sevastopol by law to the city of Sevastopol, section 1 of the Law defines the characteristics of the local budget. The specificities of the law conflict with article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which lays down the principles of the State's budgetary system and provides that exclusively the State's State Budget Act defines any expenditure incurred by the State in general. Also, the size, purpose and purpose of these expenses. This is also in conflict with the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. And I see that in a comparative table, these observations are also considered correct by the MPs. Therefore, in summary, the President of Ukraine proposes the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Act on the City of Sevastopol to reject as not in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and can create significant threats to the stability and territorial integrity of the State, the fulfilment of Ukraine's international obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u199	Give me a chance to finish! Yes, please, Orzhachowski. Don't raise your hands, because that's the president's point. They've already spoken from the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u200	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, voters! On February 9, 2006, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, 2005, following a re-examination of the President's proposals and adopted on November 3, 2005, in a new edition, taking into account the Parliament's proposals by the President of Ukraine. On 13 January 2006, the President of Ukraine took advantage of the veto, and on the third occasion proposed to parliament that the Ukrainian Act on the Hero City of Sevastopol be rejected. The Committee is confident that the Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol is a very important legal and regulatory act that is adopted to implement the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and is to become an integral part of the national legislation of Ukraine. After thoroughly examining the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject them. The content of the President's proposals largely repeats previous comments to the law. The committee also has to make a partial repetition of its previous observations, which are supported by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusion. The President's proposals also offer a fundamentally different model of implementation in Sevastopol of executive power and local self-government than in a project adopted by Parliament. It should also be noted that the issues raised by the Head of State in the Constitution of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the matter of the special status of the city of Kiev by analogy, namely: to the first National Deputies, the members of the Committee disagreed, since this paragraph contradicts article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that the system of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine is composed of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the region, the areas, the cities, the areas in the cities, the villages and villages. [[on the administrative and territorial system of Sevastopol]] The city of Kiev and Sevastopol have a special status that is determined by the laws of Ukraine. In the second paragraph, on the system of local self-government in Sevastopol, articles four, seven according to article seven, 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine and decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which state that local self-government is the right of the territorial community, the inhabitants of the village or the voluntary unification into the rural community of several villages, villages and cities to decide for themselves on matters of local importance within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The specificities of local self - rule in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol are also defined by separate laws. Local self - government is carried out by the territorial community in an order established by law, both directly and through self - government agencies. The issue of district management in cities is the responsibility of local councils. The third is about the features of executive power and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u201	Finish the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u202	Adam Ivanovich, that's the principle. Well, if you don't mind, I'll go to number three, too, and we don't agree with the President. And to conclude, dear colleagues, I would like to highlight a few points of principle. First of all, the requirement of a marriage law is contained in 133 articles of the Constitution and so forth. With all that in mind, the committee is asking to support his proposal to defeat the President's veto. And in case the veto fails, in part, I'm going to propose another option. Thank you. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u203	Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear fellows, calm down. We're going to vote now. I think that the Supreme Council of this calling should carry out one of its missions and adopt such a Law. We've been working with you for eight years on this Law, changing the Presidents, changing their policy direction, but it's still the same veto on these laws. Although they write other people, it's the same thing. And the veto is not legal, but more political. So let's help get to the legislative level and meet the constitutional standard that predicts that Sevastopol has a different status, as in the capital city of Kiev. These are two cities that are governed by separate laws. The first is the President's motion to reject the Act on the City of Sevastopol. [[13:40:00]] For-43 Not accepted. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to defeat the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on the City Hero of Sevastopol. Please vote in kind. [[13:40:33]] For 277 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 56, Communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 33, National Party – 39, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 26, National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 18, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Rebirth Party – 10, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Reforms and Orders” – zero, non-fractional – 17. [[United]] Yes, please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Deputies! If the veto is not overtaken by law, the State Building and Local Government Committee is proposing to the deputies that they accept the proposals of Ukraine in part and that they pass the law on the city hero Sevastopol in the new edition. I would like to point out that of the six proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Committee proposes that three, including three, five, six, are fully included in the assignment and dismissal of local government officials. Three proposals, including the first, second, fourth, offer, have been rejected in relation to the exclusion of the base of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation, which is temporarily located in the territory of Sevastopol, the representative authorities of local self - government, and some of the features of the city’s budgeting have been taken into account. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to enact this law in a new edition. I also ask the committee to support this proposal and to vote in a friendly manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to enact the Law on the City of Sevastopol in a new edition with those. Taking into account the President's proposals, which are now reported on behalf of the committee by colleague Orzhachowski. Please vote. Vote. Support the President's proposals. [[13:43:01]] For 246 Let's see which factions don't support the President. Please show me. "Regions of Ukraine" – 57 for communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 19,The People's Party – 36, the nearest faction "Our Ukraine" – 0, Socialists – 25, National Block of Lithuania – 21, Social Democrats – 14, Ukrainian People – 0, "Rebirth" – 5, National Movement – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, "Reforms and Order" – 0, non-fractional – 13. [[United]] Yes, Your Honor, I'd like to ask your kind of approval, because today is the day the head of the Defence Committee is asking us to leave now because he needs us to consider the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Pension Insurance and Social Protection of Military Workers, with the President's proposals, registration number 3718-2. Is there anyone on this bill from the Cabinet of Ministers? Please. Prepare Kadenyuk. Yes, Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u206	It's okay, isn't it? Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, regarding the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Pension Insurance and Social Protection of Military Workers, let me report on this. Of course, in the process of reforming the Armed Forces, this issue is a priority for power, for the President, for the government. Thus, in recent years, payments to these categories of citizens have been steadily increasing each year. Thus, since January 1, 2005, the only principles for calculating pensions for all categories of military personnel have been introduced, which foresees a significant increase in the level of pensions due to the expansion of the billing base. One year is nearing the deadline for the payment of the new pension payments for war veterans of the military and so forth. But this bill, which is proposed for consideration, raises some objections. Denials have resulted in a 5 percent increase in the number of participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl accident; 30 percent for those with special merits and others. All these changes, they're going to cost 27 million dollars a year extra. Therefore, the proposal is to support the President's proposals and remove from the Ukrainian Act the question of amending some of the Ukrainian laws on pension insurance and to vote on the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u207	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'd like to ask the committee's deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Kadenuk Leonid Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u208	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill has already been reiterated by the President of Ukraine, and after the first veto, the President of Ukraine's proposal was fully considered by the committee. The President's new proposals are not supported by either the committee or the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, such as those that do not contain sufficient legal arguments and are not well founded. What exactly does the President propose to exclude from the law? First. This is a second pension after the loss of a caregiver to parents and wives of dead or dead military personnel. An increase of 5 percent over the service of military servicemen in the first and second categories, an increase of 30 percent in pensions to those with special merit before the Fatherland who are worthy of the title and reward during the Great War. Our committee is proposing to defeat the President's veto. Please vote in favour of overcoming the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, stop the discussion, grab the buttons. I remind you that today is February 23rd and today is the Day of Fatherland's Protector, Army Day and today we are considering the Law on Social Protection of Soldiers, and today is the day of the President's birth. Let's support all that's going on with the military and beat the veto. But first we're going to put the President's proposal to the vote. Who's in favour of supporting the President's proposals and excluding paragraph 4 of paragraph 5 of the first chapter? first section item? I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:49:31]] For-79 Not accepted. Who's in favour of supporting the President's proposal to exclude paragraphs 5, 7, 10, paragraph 1, chapter one? I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:49:59]] Z-71 Dear colleagues, I understand you're tired, but listen before you push the buttons. The President's motion to exclude sub-paragraph 17 of chapter one is put to the vote. [[13:50:39]] For-76 And the exclusion of chapter 5 of the first law. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:02]] For-56 We've been through all the president's amendments, they haven't been supported. I am putting to the vote a completely fair proposal on overcoming the veto to amend some of Ukraine's pension and social protection laws. Registration No. 3718-2. Please vote. [[13:51:43]] For 228 Not accepted. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 44, Communists – 54, Block of Timoshenko – 28, People's Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 26, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social-Democratic Party – 6, Ukrainian People's Party and “Rebirth” – one by one, National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Reforms and Orders” – zero, non-fractional – 10. [[united]] I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt this bill in a new edition. Please vote. [[13:52:36]] For 235 The law was passed in a new order. Thank you. Yes, and, dear fellows, not here, not here. But so that after 16 we don't waste time, we have a desire from two factions. I mean, who's going to perform? Porovsky? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u210	Mikola Porovski, faction of the Political Party of Rebirth. Dear fellow MPs! The faction of the Political Party of Rebirth is outraged by the statements by Viktor Yanukovic, who sounded February 21st during his visit to Lugansk. During a rally in the town of Rowenka Janukovic said: “Rebirth” they want to vote in the Party of the Regions. And whatever they say, whatever slogans they have not made, all their activities are aimed at weakening the Party of the Regions.” During a teleconference on Lugansk television, the leader of the region made another statement about our colleague – the national deputy, the hero of Ukraine Hennadia Astrowa-Sumilova, a member of the “Rebirth” faction. Janukovic: "I'll tell the miners to stand guard and not let him down on the threshold of the Rowenki-Anthracit mine." I will tell the directors of the mine.” The Rebirth faction notes that these are not the first indignant statements made by Mr. Janukovic. Previously, we did not consider it necessary to respond to his concerns. But what Janukovic said in Luhansk needs an answer. First, the Rebirth Party does not vote. However, in Yanukovic's statement that the Rebirth Party is taking votes in the Party of Regions, they are offensive to millions of voters who are not Yanukovic's fortifiers, and their voices are not the property of the Party of Regions. The Rebirth Party is an entirely independent political power, long known to Ukrainians who have more than 400,000 members of the party. Unlike Viktor Yanukovic, the Rebirth Party knows not only what problems in the state, but it is also able to solve them by confirming the work of thousands of party members who performed rescue work in Alcevsk, building new train stations, automobiles and fast trains. The Rebirth Party has a clear agenda for Ukraine's further development. The Rebirth Party faction notes that Mr Yanukovic's aggression, aimed at our political power, is the result that the Rebirth Party did not support or support him in the parliamentary elections. We state that, as a result of our ideology of programming priorities, the positions of our voters, the Rebirth Party has found it impossible to cooperate with the Party of Regions, because the programme of this political force and the logic of its leader Janukovic, particularly, is aimed at further divisions in Ukraine. The Rebirth Party, on the other hand, believes that only national understanding and integration will contribute to Ukraine's development. We believe that the threats expressed publicly by Yanukovic to our one-party, national deputy, Astrov-Sumilova do not put him in business and hinder his parliamentary activities fall under the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, the responsibility for attacking the honour and dignity of the national MP. Mr. Janukovic will be responsible in court for the illegal attacks on the activities of the Astrowa-Sumilova People's Deputy. We're assuming that the words of the main region are caused by a personal insult to Astrove-Shumilova. The Rebirth Party is open to a civilized dialogue with different political parties, and we call on participants in the electoral process to be tolerant and sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-23-m0.u211	Thank you. I thought you were urging Yanukovich to join the Rebirth Party. At this morning's meeting, the Supreme Council declares it closed. We'll start the evening session at 4:00.
