ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, and TV sets! Today, Friday, July 28, we begin the morning session of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A registration is being carried out. There are 306 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. According to the Rules, which is article 25 of the Rules, on Friday 30 minutes to make inquiries, I do. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Groups of Ukrainian deputies to the President of Ukraine on the exacerbation of the crisis socio-economic situation in the coal labour groups. [[TURMAN, TULOUB, KORJE, AND OTHERS. Total 5 deputies]] Groups of deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, and this to the President, I'm sorry, I didn't pay attention. [[JIGA, KORZEV, COMAR, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Who's in charge of supporting that request? Please vote. Turmanov, Tolub, Korz and others. Please vote. [[10:01:50]] For 235 This content is supported. To address this request to the President who supports this idea, please vote. [[10:02:12]] For 238. The request is being sent. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the renewal of the criminal investigation, which resulted in the death of the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Kravchenk. [[JIGA, KORZEV, COMAR, and others. Total 9 deputies]] MICHELLA TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal decision of the Kiev City Council of September 26, 2002, regarding the forced movement of vehicles. Deputies (JIGA, COMAR, KORŽEV, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the involvement of the ex-Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, in the delay in the investigation of a criminal case committed by the murder of journalist George Gongadze. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the verification of the intentional miscalculation of the pension of Lieutenant Colonel Fomin Alexander Yakovic. RUSSIAN Jury to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inactivity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in relation to the search for the missing citizen of Ukraine, Pavluk Mikoli Vitaliyovich. MICHELLA TO THE Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for a tax debt of 7.5 billion dollars in unification “The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine” before the State Budget. There are parliamentary requests from the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzk, Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka, from the national deputy BOKOGO John Sidorovich and CRONOVOL Taras Viačeslavovic, regarding the statement by the national deputy Lášk about the bribery of Ukrainian national deputies. That seems to be all the questions. Did I forget to announce any questions? No, it's not. Now let's move on to the agenda. I would like to ask your support for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council Resolution, a project handed down to you personally, “About the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call in August 2006”. The contents are like this. “In view of the urgent need for urgent consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Continue the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call until the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been established, setting the closure of the session on the day of the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, the agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the next day will be determined during the period marked at the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which precedes the relevant plenary meeting. The other one. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. When it comes to inclusion in the order of the day, can it be determined? Please, the vote is coming. [[10:06:01]] For 241 As far as acceptance is concerned, can we vote now? I'm putting this order to a vote as a whole as a Supreme Council decree. Please. [[10:06:29]] For 245 Decision taken. By factions, please disclose by factions: Region Party – 186, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" – 3, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Soccer – 33, communists – 21. The question raised by the President, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the implementation of the project for the creation of the telemedicine network of Ms. Kiev, the number and so on, the props are written here. [[of 18.07.2006]] Reported to Deputy Minister of Economy Musin Ludmila Abdrahmanovna. Is it? And the co-reporter is confirmed by the head of the Committee on Health Care of Bacheyev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Are you ready to report? Ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u2	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health has considered the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the implementation of the project on the establishment of the telemedicine network of the city of Kiev, introduced by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. [[in the form of an exchange of notes]] The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the necessary procedures are in place for the entry into force of an agreement that will provide an opportunity for four Kiev medical institutions such as: Kiev City Clinical Hospital No. 6, Kiev City Emergency Hospital, Kiev City Cancer Hospital and Kiev City Oncospenser receive free and non-refundable grants totalling $1 million. It is envisaged that the equipment, materials to be supplied by the Government of the Republic of Korea as part of the project will be exempt from all taxes, including taxes and other compulsory payments. It is an international practice to receive technical assistance from our country. The project provides for the establishment in Kiev of a specialized high-tech computer network for the rapid exchange of audio, video information, x-rays, electrocardiograms, endoscopic, tomographic and other instrumental and laboratory studies on the condition of the patient among medical professionals in real time. These innovations will, of course, improve the diagnosis and treatment of Ukrainian citizens in difficult cases of disease. The Chief Scientific Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the agreement, while pointing out the need to include financial and economic justification in the bill. However, the Explanatory Note to the Bill notes that its implementation does not require additional material and other costs. In view of the poor logistical status of our medical facilities, it is only possible to thank the Government of the Republic of Korea for the assistance provided and to ratify the agreement without fibula. The Embassy of the Republic of Korea declares that failure by Ukraine to comply with the necessary domestic ratification procedures as soon as possible will result in the refusal of the Republic of Korea to participate in the draft. The Committee recommends that the Agreement submitted in the form of an exchange of notes between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea for the implementation of the project on the establishment of a telemedicine network of the city of Kiev be ratified. Please support and enact as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u3	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Three minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u4	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Aunt Dmitry! I am sure that the initiative of President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka of Ukraine to fill the real content of his program “Ten Steps to Meet People” today is supported by all factions, with the exception of one faction, by three letters called. I have a question: please tell me, who will control the use of the allocated funds? I mean, I'm interested in what we're talking about all the time when we're distributing grants. What is your profile committee's role in carrying out control functions using these funds, i.e. that the grant should be given in precise terms both for the purpose and for the purpose of improving the diagnostic base of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u5	Thank you so much for asking. The Committee has considered this issue in great detail and we know that this note has already been in effect since 2002. To date, there are a number of specialists who have gone. have been interned in the Republic of Korea. So it's kind of a waste, it's going to be the sum of what is, travel, education, education and so on. Well, the rest is going to be the equipment that will be controlled by the authorities responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u6	Samilik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u7	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Tatiana Dmitrievna, I would also like to ask you this question in the development of the previous colleague. Of course, help. Well, who's not happy to get the kind of help you're talking about today. But I wouldn't say that it's absolutely free, because the technical equipment that comes in has some benefits, and, of course, it's already a budget for Ukraine to get something, so you can't just say it for free, it's all good, it's all good. It just can't be like that. But I would also like to focus on it. How many agreements are we ratifying here, how much help is being given to us, please tell me, is that really helping our health institutions work, in particular, let's say this last word?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u8	Thank you very much. I want to say that telemedicine has long been developed in developed countries. In the 1990s, America had an estimated economic impact on $30 billion. And today, from CIS countries, I almost cannot tell which one of the countries did not have telemedicine today. This is Russia, this is Belarus, this is Kazakhstan, this is Georgia, this is Armenia, and even Uzbekistan has been very high on telemedicine since 98. And, of course, it only provides a distinctly excellent characteristic for establishing the correct diagnosis and for improving modern methods and diagnosis and treatment for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u9	Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u11	The word is given by the Deputy Minister of Health. economics, excuse me, Musina Ludmila Abdrachmanovna. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. The need for ratification of this agreement has already been proven, the only thing I want to say is that, because by now we had not had such a framework agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Korea, we have had to ratify every such agreement. At the same time, since a vote on the Framework Agreement took place on Tuesday, Korea’s relief process will now be greatly simplified, and we can, indeed, be assisted in such high - tech cooperation as health and energy conservation, and so on. The agreement is signed between the Korean side, the Korean International Cooperation Agency, and the Ukrainian side, the Ministry of Health. And the treaty will clearly prescribe a list of equipment that needs to be taken and all measures taken to learn, to share the experiences of our Ukrainian health workers. And the Ministry of Economics will control the precise implementation of this agreement and the correct use of funds, of course, and on the part of the Supreme Council it will be the Court of Auditors. We have the conclusion of the Health Committee and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which supports the ratification of this agreement. In this regard, please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u13	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Three minutes. Borszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u14	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The introduction of new science-intensive technology implies the introduction of certain electronic software standards, and the supplier becomes a monopoly in this area. Further development of these networks, has the question of the implications of this monopoly on electronic software products been addressed and how it will affect further development, allowable, of these systems in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u15	The point is that this equipment applies only to remote diagnostics, telemedicine, and, at the same time, it will significantly increase the level of health diagnostics, and today we have a medical problem. So if health care first starts using such high - tech tools, surely we will continue to try to implement them in other fields. With regard to monopolies, it is so difficult to say because we will try to involve technical assistance for our health care not only from Korea, from other countries, in order to actually push the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u16	Polack.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that in the medical community of Kyivmizkbud, telemedicine works. You know, it's fantastic when there's a doubt about the diagnosis, in five to six minutes, you can pass this person's picture on to a loving clinic in the world. Believe me, I know it not from words but from practice. So this is a very useful decision and I would like to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Avrumovich, Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u19	Prokopovic, “Our Ukraine” Block. I would like to urge our colleagues to support this decision. The point is that in 1993 a treaty was signed between the United States of America, the European Commission, Ukraine that all technical assistance should not be taxed. So this is a established practice, and Ukraine has been working on these principles for many years. So I'm asking you a lot of questions, if we're getting help, if people are getting involved, taught people, what we're talking about. I was especially surprised by the position of the Communists. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u20	I'd like to add one more word. This equipment had already been manufactured in Korea, and they had already paid taxes on it in their country. That's why they're tax-free here. And the budget didn't cost any money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Are they willing to comment on this? There aren't any, so I'd like just one moment. One moment to pay attention. I met with Ambassador Korea for days and with the head of their group of interparliamentary relations with Ukraine, and I want to say that they are interested in developing cooperation. The question of Communist Borszewski was correct from the point of view of the development of our production, but the point is that it's a kind of a commercial project. Every nation that manufactures such equipment moves to the world’s markets by offering its products. Under our present circumstances, it would be good if everyone who is capable of doing so came to us with their suggestions. But anyway, it's a useful thing, and we certainly have to support it, thanks for the initiative of Ambassador Lee Song Joo of Korea, who was the initiator of the solution. Let's vote on the Law on the Ratification of this Agreement, I think we'll be right in this respect. I'll bet you a vote. Please. [[10:22:34]] For 303 Decision taken. The question is being considered. I'd like to warn or remind the Cabinet. Following the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the laws initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers will be considered from the submission of ministers, the first ones responsible for the respective directions. Today we understand a certain specificity in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I would ask that the Prime Minister and others take this into account. A draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises is under consideration. This is the law of the Minister of Fuel and Energy – Plackov Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! As you know as a result of the various payments, the energy sector of Ukraine has for many years been lending both to the social sector and to industry without getting a proper and timely payment for the electronics released. In addition, there is a negative impact on the state of the fuel-energy complex enterprises so far and the lack of sources for covering the costs associated with the supply of energy to some categories of consumers, which are legally provided with benefits for their payment. But thanks to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel-Energy Enterprises, issue 2711 of 23 June 2005, for which we are grateful to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there has been an appropriate impetus to improve the financial situation of fuel-energy enterprises and to take a number of steps towards prevention and bankruptcy. Thanks to the implementation of the appropriate mechanisms provided for by law, companies in the fuel and energy complex have carried out credit-settling transactions that arose on 1 January 2005 at the sum of 448 million dollars, in addition to the formation of contracts for the collection of approximately 370 million dollars. Debts on pennies, fines, and financial penalties of 473 million dollars are written off. The basic tax debt has been restructured for 10 years, 277.5 million dollars. There are also some types of debt owed to energy consumers in budgetary institutions, the population, the benefits and subsidies of liquidated enterprises -- 92.2 million dollars. In addition, the preparation for the session of the interdisciplinary committee of documents for write-offs of more than 305 million dollars is being completed. I also report that between 1 January 2005 and today, the debt of energy companies to the wholesaler has been repaid by about one and a half billion dollars. Together with this paragraph 3.4 of the law, the repayment procedure for the fuel-energy complex is limited to only 9 months. Honorable national MPs, as has been found in practice, have found the implementation of the mechanism of this Act to be very complex and require the development of a whole range of normative and instructive materials to ensure coordinated action by companies of the fuel and energy complex, theirs. local authorities. The time remaining until the end of the Law on 10 August 2006 does not allow to the full extent you use the Law mechanism to improve the financial and economic situation of enterprises in the fuel and energy complex. One example of this is the implementation of a mechanism to pay off government debt in the coal sector to energy-efficient companies that make up about one and a half billion dollars. This mechanism requires the harmonization of procedures by the regional commissions of the respective areas of Ukraine. We are also concerned about the delay in the submission of materials by territorial commissions that have not submitted material to date regarding the cancellation of the debt of fiscal, public, and municipal enterprises and organizations that will have a negative impact on their financial situation. There is an urgent need for the Law to be continued until the end of the year. This will logically eliminate the differences between the terms of action of this Act and article 116 of the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 which provides subsidies to local budgets to pay debts to energy suppliers in different tariffs for heat, water and water supply. As the Law continues, debt repayment mechanisms can be used in full. On the basis of the above, we ask for a bill to be adopted on the extension of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises by the end of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Yes, please sign up for questions. Five minutes. Please, Kalts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the Deputy Dry Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u25	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u26	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear John Vasilovich, I think that my questions you agree with, it applies and would answer the whole government, but as a member of the government, I want to ask you a question, because it is now very sharp in front of our people, in front of the budgetary institutions. I can tell you that this issue is not just a matter of concern to voters today, but it already frightens them the day before winter, on the eve of the hot season. Please tell me, when and to what extent will the President of Ukraine's mandate to develop the Kabmin compensatory mechanisms related to what will come for heating up the winter to pay twice as much? How is this mechanism actually being developed today, calm people or budget institutions, somewhere in the buds, well, your professional, competent ministries, or is it already being developed, or do you already see ways out of this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I can answer in such a way that, in developing price parameters and moving to economically sound tariffs, there was an appropriate commission, the appropriate Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, where the developed mechanism of compensation by way of payment of benefits, subsidies, payment of additional social benefits, which compensates for the low-income population, is an increase. In full terms of the budget, the Minister of Finance has confirmed this, the funds provided and they are in order to compensate for this increase for budgetary institutions and other institutions financed from the budget. So at the adoption of these economically sound prices, that means that adequate calculations and expenditures have been made in full, I've already said, both the Minfin for budgetary organizations and the Minfin for the Ministry of Labour and for the low-income population.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u28	Please, Alexy Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u29	Thank you. Alexei Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine”. Mr. Secretary, on the one hand, I want to say that I will certainly vote for this law personally and call upon my colleagues. Because, in fact, the result of the current law is to improve financial relations in the field. On the other hand, I would like to make such a warning that any pre-emptive scheme, unfortunately in our experience, provides such a basis for certain subjective, mildly speaking, solutions and an appropriate dose of use. I don't want to talk about the shale envelopes, I haven't seen it, and I haven't felt it. But let us say that there are objective reasons. In this regard, Your Honor Ivan Vasilovich, tell us, how are commissions formed that make decisions based on pre-trial schemes? And can it be anticipated that the members of the Supreme Council, preferably not from a profile committee, would participate in other committees working on these committees for a more impartial decision-making process? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Commissions, they are formed by representatives of local authorities, meaning local government administrations, meaning where they are involved as representatives of public authorities, such as the National Commission. So these commissions are created in every region, in every district center, and they work, there's a very wide circle of representatives, both local authorities and government authorities. And a commission was created, a central commission with representatives from the National Commission of Regulatory, representatives of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, other ministries. In addition, the state - owned energy plant has created a special accounting centre that conducts these calculations, and these calculations are carried out clearly in accordance with the law and regulations provided for in Law 2711. We work with the Tax Administration, we work with the Treasury, and we work with representatives of the Ministry of Finance. And there's absolutely no objection. If we wish, we will only be happy to have the participation of national deputies from the committee of profile and other committees in the work of these committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u31	Please, Leluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u32	Alexei Leluk, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Ivan Vasiljevic, don't you think it was worth extending this bill for a year, not for five months, given that many businesses have failed to carry out this operation in the last nine months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u33	We have analysed in sufficient detail the time required to complete this work. We have faced organizational difficulties in two ways. First, a number of Cabinet decrees had to be prepared. We have prepared, but with the resignations of the Government, it was necessary to revise. Unfortunately, we did not adopt those regulations by the Government at that time. Second, there were considerable difficulties in establishing commissions in the regions. So the commissions have been set up, the work has already been done, so all the necessary regulations have been adopted. And in order to comply with the provisions of the law provided for in the provisions, we are absolutely confident that by the end of the year that time will be sufficient. That is why we have analysed this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u34	Well, there's another one: it's consistent with the relevant articles of the State Budget Act 2006. So we can't leave in 2006 because that's what we're going to do. So these laws are interconnected. Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, please sit down. Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u35	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! We heard a speech by Minister of Fuel and Energy Plačkov Ivan Vasilovich, and we received information about the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Fuel and Energy Act, adopted on 23 June 2006, on measures to ensure the continued operation of the fuel and energy complex. The Government as a whole and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, among other things, are asking us to continue until 31 December 2006 the term of the law, thus allowing the energy sector to complete the procedure provided for by this law to pay off the debt of fuel-energy enterprises. In considering the above-mentioned issue on the committee, the members of the committee were convinced that the Government had done a considerable amount of work, created by the relevant structures, which were called upon to organize mutual accounts between companies of the fuel and energy complex in accordance with the law. With considerable difficulty, but a mechanism has been set up to interact with the government, territorial commissions have begun to work. That's what happened. The formation of a new government fell to the stage of the implementation of the law, and John Vasilovich spoke about it in his speech. As a result, the adoption of the necessary normative documents by the Cabinet of Ministers was halted. This is an objective reason for delaying the implementation of the mechanisms for repaying the relationship between the indebtedness of energy companies. At the same time, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, attention was drawn to the need for more active and effective work of Minpalivenergo so that you and I would not have to continue to operate again in this room. Minpalevenergo assured us that the draft law was sufficient to complete the calculations. All members of the committee unanimously supported the government’s proposal. We have seen the Government’s desire to solve this acute problem and to make the most of the experience we have gained. In particular, including the cancellation of 1.5 billion dollars in debt to coal companies. I'm convinced that there's no point in creating a danger that companies of the fuel and energy complex will not be able to properly document and give them to the interdisciplinary commission for approval. Thus, the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security considers it appropriate to extend the term of Law No. 2711. On behalf of the committee, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the committee's decision on the adoption on the basis and in general of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for questions. Yeah, five minutes. Marmazov Eugene, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u37	Thank you. Nikolai Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u38	The committee secretary will ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u39	Well, this law went very hard, it went very hard in the hall, and it has to be said that paying off debts is by raising the electricity tariff. And the high tariff has been working for more than a year, and debts are almost non-debted. This is what you think, in the four months that the Acting Minister asks, in fact, is that the Ministry solves this major problem of debt cancellation at TEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u40	Dear Eugene Vasilovich, in fact, this bill was not simply being passed in the room, although our understanding on the committee was unanimous about the bill in order to somehow improve the financial situation of the sector, to improve investment attractiveness. And so, of course, the problem that stands, the rise in these tariffs, that's another problem, it doesn't apply to this bill. And again, you and I on the committee have been looking at preparations for the winter, where we've determined that and listened, including NCRE, as we're going to see the rise or non-increasing of tariffs. And the corresponding tasks were given, formulated directly by the committee. And, indeed, I fully agree with Adam Ivanovich, who said that we have term scissors. The act of this law, 2711, by August 10th, and the budget adopted for this year, for 2006 and therefore still needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u41	Please, George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u42	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm here. In this, last year the state has already written down 6.8 billion debts. How do you feel about the Cabinet of Ministers decision of March 15 on the sale of debts, today we have loans received, 14.2 billion? And the Cabinet of Ministers decided to sell those debts for 50 percent. I think how do you appreciate this determination of the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u43	I can only say the following. What you said for 50 percent is bad. Why 50? Why not in 90, why not in 30, why not in 40? If such procedures are to be followed, they should be conducted only openly, not dictated, for which amount and therefore the following. If the procedure is open, public and we see that there will be no fraud, maybe it should be done, but there are things to be fixed, obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u44	Please, Omelyan Nikonovich Parubok.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u45	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please tell me where the power is? If at the end of the 1980s the village's electricity is one keg, and for the klugs, or if it's a klutz, it's three kiln. And in the night shift, we had a wasteful, no energy use, so specially purchased power plants with thermals that were free of charge, they were running businesses, they were working bathrooms, they were burning everything for free. Where's the electricity going now that we're up to 30 kegs per kilowatt? Is it possible for a person to pay as he today receives 300 dollars of pension and even one light bulb will not be able to pay at such prices?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. The question is very relevant. Regarding tariffs, such as electricity. We discussed last Wednesday at a committee meeting, including that question. Today there are problems, particularly in electricity on this issue. In particular, it is not only the formation of electricity tariffs but also the formation of appropriate services at the local level. Today the government is preparing a bill to solve this problem. To date, a number of national deputies have introduced a bill in general concerning the functioning of the National Commission, which controls these issues. To make the procedures more transparent and clearer. There is a problem, there is a rise in tariffs, there is, unfortunately, an objective one, because we know how energy tariffs have increased, including oil, gas, coal, and other types of fuel. But of course, the legislative authorities must take a direct part in reducing these negative effects. And minimize accordingly the growth of tariffs, and appropriate social compensation for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u47	Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u48	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have a question like this: paying off the debt to the fuel and energy companies is projected at the expense of subsidies. It would seem that the norm is already in effect, but practice shows that we often make bad decisions. Is it not possible that this time subsidies will come on the last day of this year, and they cannot be counted, and this will cause us to fail? What mechanisms will be involved to get the money in time?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u49	Today, I don't think we're going to face this problem by looking at how the state budget is being implemented. All I can do is focus on the bill that we're discussing right now. With what confidence can it be said that even for the deadline of 10.08.2006, we will get the results, and we can see that we will. In particular, according to the Act 2711, there will be a cost-sharing of 500 million dollars. In the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 198, 75, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decreed 705, 425 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. In addition, the debt under article 9 - 200 million, subsection 9.1.2, has been written off. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Distinguishing the difference between creditor and receivable. Refunding under sub-paragraph 9.1. Articles 9 - 1.9 billion This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure Saving the debt of coal companies to a sum of one and a half billion dollars. It'll make things better, the financial situation in the field. The work is going well, with difficulty, but it's going to go, if we continue the term, we're going to make this work much better and we're going to make a lot of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u50	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Yes, please sign up for an address to discuss the matter. Yes, there were five national deputies. 15 minutes, please, Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u51	I'd like to give you a word. Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u52	Please, Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich. From where? Turn on Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u53	And I'm for you. Dear colleagues, of course, this law is necessary and there is nothing to dispute here. There are debts, huge debts, and you can't afford them anymore. And, of course, this issue needs to be addressed. Debts have already increased before the TEC is virtually broken. Well, 17 billion, you can imagine, the bracelet of debt. While the main fault here is not the employees of TEC, it is the State's fault. You have to admit that, too. It is the difference between tariffs and unrecovered benefits and an unbalanced budget and the massive and impunity of electricity. On the other hand, we have delayed this problem year after year, and the law has come to an end. The law is a real solution to this problem. But how can we benefit from this law? Regrettably, this inertness of our officials and MinTEC and the Cabinet of Ministers has led to the fact that the implementation of this law has been broken. It must be said that only four months later, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree allowing the law to be implemented from 9 to 4 months. Here's the thing. The Cabinet of Ministers has repeatedly listened to it, but in MinTek, there is total indifference, Ivan Vasiljevic. You're insulted, as Minister, by total indifference. Few, and on this point, the acute question of Mintek began to look for ways to involve mediators in the scheme of reckonings, even in this sacred cause. So what's the score? In nine months, we wrote down almost ten percent. This suggests that the Law is virtually broken. Should we make his decision for another four months? To be honest, in four months nothing will be done in such an approach. It'll be back in four months and we'll decide on the question of extending the third line. The only thing that can be done in our Government is that we will ask for four months and a new Government will come to do so. I believe that it is not sad, but this law must be passed only to enable these problems to be realized in TEKa by the new Government. I therefore believe that the draft law that has been tabled should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u54	Thank you, please, Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko. From the rostrum or from the scene? From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers. Let's think about it with you: all the heat plants in Ukraine today have been converted into gas, knowing that we had enough coal in Ukraine to keep the heat plants running, which used 95 percent of the coal and 5 percent of the oil. I realize that technology is more complex there, but I realize that the cost of kilowatt electricity was three or three-and-a-half. Today, heat plants have been converted into gas that costs $12.5 kilowatts of electricity annually. Our coal resources are not being used. It's different. Hydropower plants give electricity a cost of 1.7 in 2 klicks per kilowatt. And the third. We have 50 percent of nuclear power plants, and more specifically, nuclear power plants. The cost of kilowatts of electricity ranges from 3.5 to 4.5 copies. Question: Why is it that today the price of 27 and 30 copies for consumers is something for agriculture, something for citizens, or for industry, or for citizens of the city. What's the sector that's going to be cost-effective tens of times? Who gave the Ministry and the energy in general the right to exploit the capabilities of our industry and the state of industry, I mean, and the individuals who use electricity. I think we need to take this seriously, and the fact that the law that was introduced today needs to be considered and accepted, I don't think there are any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Yes, all who wanted to share in the discussion did so. Please, Ivan Vasilovich, if you have the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u57	Yeah. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, I want to answer some questions and, if you can briefly comment. Regarding the deadline for the preparation of normative documents, I had already said that it was subjective, but also objective, because the government had three times been, for example, I had personally three times retired, and all of these documents had to be reconciled and reviewed in the Cabinet of Ministers. It was such a complicated procedure. As far as the law is concerned. So I can just assure you that we're not looking for intermediaries and in accordance with the law, so they're mediators, they're the exclusive participation of mediators in these calculations. With regard to gas, Alexander Mikolaiovich, all power plants work on coal. So we've cut three times the gas consumption since 2004, so the gas is only consumed on the floor. At least what is technologically possible and gas is only burned at heat power plants that work exclusively on gas. There you can't burn coal, and we've tripled gas consumption and increased the amount of coal consumption and coal pay. What about self - worth? So in the development of retail tariffs, the National Commission on Electricity Control, which is an independent body, it calculates virtually the whole economy, starting with electricity production, means transport, distribution and all the costs that it needs to bear directly in order to distribute this electricity among consumers. As far as profitability is concerned, I can say that in six months of this year, the generating companies are working today with a minus profitability. And last year, we only made a profit of 4 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u58	Thank you. Well, please, a line. Because it was called Tachchenka, please. One minute. Ivan Vasilovich called. Tachchenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u59	I don't think we should blame each other or lie to each other. We know who generates electricity, who consumes it, but we don't know who uses the middle. We know in whose hands all the transport lines are in the supply of electricity and who assigns all of this. Mediators are the ones who were resold to the electricity supply system itself. And then we tell you that we've got a little bit of a waste of energy, and these people don't know where the money's going, they're coming out of their pockets, and we don't get anything in the budget. It's like the liquor industry. The budget used to be 38% and today 3%. And 35% is left with those who have. It's the same with energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u60	On the basis of Alexy Kucherenko's vote, we will determine. Microphone, please, Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u61	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear friends, well, I have this proposal: really, today, not to discuss all the problems of the fuel-energy complex, there are a lot of them, and unfortunately, they have accumulated not in the last year, not in the last six months, but in practice, from the failed start of reforming our fuel-energy and failing, again, this is my personal opinion, market reform. In 1996 it was, and we remember it very well, and the process began. But today there are objective realities, there is a completely constant work of a fuel-energy complex. And I think we need to support this process of improving the financial state of our energies. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal of a profile committee and the proposal of everyone involved in the discussion is that we have every reason to adopt this bill. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, registration number 1084. Please vote. [[10:57:52]] For 308. Dear colleagues, the profile committee is offering to accept it as a law. Is there no objection? Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal, which is supported, has no objection to the adoption of the Act as a whole amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of the fuel-energy complex. Registration number 1074. Please vote. [[10:58:40]] For 311 The law is passed. Thank you. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens who are abroad]] Registration number 1042. Reported by the author of the legislative initiative, Oxan Volodymyr Bilozer. Get ready for Zybenko. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u63	Welcome, distinguished national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian community! First of all, I want to say that this bill that was put forward for our consideration today is the answer to the numerous pleas of our migrant laborers who are abroad. The need for the drafting of this bill, which is proposed, is due to the huge injustice that is taking place in relation to our elderly citizens, who, under different circumstances, we have repeatedly talked about various reasons abroad. The point is that according to article 49 of the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act, pension benefits are suspended for the entire duration of a pensioner’s stay abroad if this is not provided for by another international agreement of Ukraine. It's particularly painful, as you can see, for the elderly, our migrant workers, because no international agreement can protect them. I want to tell you. That the main part, to remind you more faithfully, is that the main part of our migrant workers, who are abroad, is about 80% illegal, so we understand how important this is today. Now for a brief discussion of the substance of the bill. Four changes have been made to four articles that answer who can form a pension. Article 44 of the procedure for applying for an appointment, the recalculation of the pension is proposed to supplement the standard according to which an application for the assignment of a pension can be made through a representative acting on the basis of trust certified notaryly, and, if it is abroad, it is legally legalized by the Ukrainian consular diplomatic institution. How can this be done? Article 47 of the Law proposes to supplement the standard according to which a pension may be paid to a person, first, through an authorized representative. Second, to be counted as a bank account, including abroad. And I would like to point out that it is proposed that the compensation for pension expenses in connection with the recalculation of a pension abroad be borne by the person to whom the pension is counted. And thirdly, it's the battery on the special account of the pension fund where the first application is paid. Also, and most importantly, the bill proposes to delete article 49, paragraph 2, in accordance with which the pension is suspended for the entire period of retirement abroad. Well, many of you will have questions about the financial part of this bill. I would like to point out that the bill does not foresee a new type of pension, it does not foresee an increase in its size. It is solely about making it possible for people to receive the pension they have earned in Ukraine with their hard work and making the corresponding contributions. To a greater extent, of course, this refers to our illegal citizens, illegal migrants and therefore the costs that will be paid to them are already in the Pension Fund, which is calculated from the total number of pensioners and their pension. I want to say that, as you can understand, many of our citizens are in a variety of ways: legally, illegally, legally, illegally, but still trying to form this pension in Ukraine. Therefore, we propose to bring about a normal legal order and to remove this injustice that exists with regard to our labour migrants. Furthermore, article 25 of the Constitution guarantees the care and protection of the State to all its citizens who are abroad and the applicable law on the termination of pensions when they are abroad, and it violates the constitutional rights of citizens. And actually I want to tell you that we are in Ukraine, in fact, there is one state in the world that introduces such unfair practices. With regard to the committee, the committee met to discuss the matter. There have been some comments from the secretary of the committee that will necessarily be included in the second reading and I would ask the deputies to support the bill, to accept it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u64	Thank you, Oksana Volodymyr. Please sign the questions. Five minutes, please, Borschewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u65	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I have a question for the author. You claimed that 80 per cent of our emigrants were illegal. Ukraine has entered into a treaty to eliminate illegal migration. If your law and existing rules do not conflict, the consulate will maintain legal relations with illegal migrants. Do you see any contradictions in the implementation of your law?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. In principle, this topic is completely free from the problem of solving our work migration abroad, it's our internal problems, it's a matter of the Supreme Council that should allow people wherever they are, and it's written in the Constitution to get their decently earned pension. It has nothing to do with the international complex processes that are taking place in the world today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u67	Please, Katerina Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u68	Katerina Levchenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. I have a question, Oksana Volodymyrna, how this situation is resolved in other countries, including our neighbours, Belarus, the Russian Federation and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u69	Thank you. A very important question, and how do you know that there is a formula that is only accepted in the world, which includes working in both the Russian Federation and Belarus. On your question, money goes to a pensioner where he lives, even if he's out of state. I think that Ukraine, which is on the path of civilization in democratic processes, should remove this discriminatory norm and move in the direction of all civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u70	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u71	Thank you. The great Oksana Volodymyrically, I support the need to adopt such a bill, more so that we have a lot of people working abroad in the Chernobyl region. But I have a question for you. Please tell me, how many people do we have working abroad illegally and, roughly, how many people can use this bill? That's the first question. And the second question, and it doesn't seem optimal to come up with a proposal at the level of the Council of Europe, other international structures, to reconcile this issue at the level of the conventions? Because the question is not just to pay off illegals, we need to work to legalize these people so that they can work and get compensation from the respective countries' pension funds so that they can also get a pension because they work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u72	Thank you. That's a big question. And I want to tell you that as a member of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the Fourth Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I raised these questions and even prepared a report to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The state of labour migration of Eastern Europe, of course part of which is Ukrainian. This question, it's crucial, it needs, let's say, the involvement of many political, international, and international organizations. This bill, on our part, let's say again, only works in our jurisdiction. So it's creating the conditions for every person who's earned a pension to have the opportunity to get a pension, the quantity that's going to be, we'll see. Our job with you is to open the door so everyone doesn't take advantage of it and say that the state doesn't care or see these problems that our Ukrainians face.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u73	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u74	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of regions. Dear Oksan Volodymyrically, this bill has long deserved to become law, because it has long been developed, as we know, it has a positive conclusion and a recommendation of expert offices, it needs people. Especially in view of the extent of foreign earnings. But please tell me two short questions. So this is a question that might cause some of the voters who are now listening to us or watching from the TV screen. First. Would not the implementation of this bill, as it were, contribute to the increased or accelerated export of currency abroad? And the second question. To what extent, as can be said of the elements of social justice of our pensioners, the retirees who are leaving, whether this aspect will contribute to the creation of elements of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u75	Thank you. The questions are extremely profound. And I want to ask you a second question right away. The point is that the language in the bill is only about Ukrainian citizens who are abroad. If there are Ukrainians abroad who are, say, citizens of other countries, this rule does not apply to them. What about the amount of money? You know, this money from Ukraine is largely not being exported, it's the money that our labor migrants, who are, say, in European countries, want to leave for their grandchildren, for their children. So they're basically going to work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u76	Please, Leo Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u77	That's my question. There are framework agreements on this issue with other states, if any, with which States, and what work is planned on this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u78	Thank you. There are contracts and about 20, 14 of them in the countries of the SND. And once again, I would like to point out that this bill basically protects the rights of pensioners of migrant workers. Because international agreements do not discuss or protect the rights of migrant workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u79	Thank you, Oksana Volodymyr, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons at its meeting carefully considered the bill. We have to say that there really is a problem. I'll say more, in the last meeting of the Supreme Council, there was an appropriate bill, but now a little bit of authorship has changed. But it actually confirms once again that there is a problem, that it is not designed, and that it needs to be solved. In discussing this document, a number of my colleagues, including members of the committee, made some warnings about the problem. But what I would like to say is that this draft document is supported, more specifically, by the amendments to the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance, are supported by the Scientific and Expert Office, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Pension Fund. By the way, I would like to say that the adoption of these amendments to the Law also leads to changes in our legislation that conform to the requirements of the International Confederation of Labour. Therefore, the committee proposes that, in view of all these circumstances, this document be adopted in the first reading. I would really like to point out that some of the warnings have been made during the discussion, but none of these warnings are one that cannot be corrected in the process of preparing for second reading. All these comments will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u81	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Please, three minutes, Acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u82	Dear Peter Stepanovich, Deputy Kiselov, Crimea. I wanted to ask you, first of all, I'm going to vote in favour of this bill, but I wanted to ask you if the committee is thinking that by adopting such a bill, we are encouraging the export of our labour force and the border and the President's promises of return, the creation of five million jobs in the state, will simply not be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u83	I see. Thank you for asking. I would like to say that this change, despite the fact that it is not large enough, applies not only to people who are working today but also to people, including those who have earned their employment and have the right to receive it. Unfortunately, we have problems with the realization of this constitutional right of every citizen. And that's why I think that this, these changes to the law, are mainly about the realization of the constitutional right to work earned, the hard work of a pensioner. Although we will certainly take into account this warning that has been given, we will do our utmost to make the worst warnings that you are now telling us that they have not come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u84	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u85	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Peter Stepanovich! The current legislation, indeed, provides that if a person is abroad and is particularly illegal, he cannot receive that pension. From the point of view of justice, this must be done. But the question is. If this pension is not paid today, people are abroad, and we accept this bill accordingly, and the economy that was before, remained at the disposal of the Pension Fund, now it will be gone. I just wanted to figure out what number, you said, is a small number, but roughly what is the number of people that are going to be distributed it? And the second point that I wanted to pay attention to, too. Please tell me, how can we do the same to citizens of other countries, especially the SND, who are now in Ukraine? Thus, there are no bilateral agreements, such as with Moldova in this regard and with other countries, especially in the Transnistria region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u86	You know, I'd like to. Thank you for asking. I would like to say that the process of making appropriate agreements with other countries is continuing. This is indeed a constant work, a practical, everyday work, and we continue to do so through the conclusion of appropriate international agreements. I am absolutely convinced that perhaps at some point the need for such a law will fall away when we have bilateral agreements that will fully resolve this problem. As for the number of people to whom this law can be applied. I think the number of these people is going to be counted by tens of thousands of people, no more than that, I call the maximum. But if this were true of even a few people, and the norm allowed justice to be established in relation to them, then this rule of law would have to be adopted, we all understand. But once again, I stress that this is really not about a large number of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u87	Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Peter Stepanovich, please tell me what the law is. But do we not create unequal conditions in the issue of pensions for citizens who live within Ukraine and for those who are outside it to adopt this law? In the end, all of us are equal before the law, before the Constitution we have equal rights. But here's the question that needs to be more clearly defined and answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u89	Thank you, Stepanovich. I would like to say that this law does not create any preferences, no advantages for people living abroad. What's more, we're trying to balance them with the possibilities of those veterans who live in Ukraine. But there is another aspect of the problem in your question. And in this context, I would like to support you in this way that really those people who are now pensioners, veterans and disabled people have worked very, very hard for decades. And I'm absolutely convinced that you and I have to take care of these people first by improving pensions, by increasing pensions, because unfortunately, today we have a different view of the problem when a pensioner, a veteran, a disabled person is forced to work, but it's not his fault, it's his fault, it's his misery, because he can't live on the pitiful pension he has today. Therefore, your question is certainly right, and we will work with the Supreme Council on its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u90	Thank you, please sit down, Peter Stepanovich. Yes, please sign up for the speech. Yes, they are desirable. Then six minutes. Please, Katerina Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Chief! I want to immediately say that I want to support this bill and vote on it as a basis. And I ask you to do this not only as a national MP, but as the head of a law-enforcement organization that has been looking after the rights of Ukrainian citizens abroad for almost 10 years now, is the International Centre for Lastrada Ukraine. I'm asking you to support this bill because, first of all, it's to restore justice to those citizens who are in it. And this is a real mechanism for implementing the 46th article of the Constitution of Ukraine that provides. gives citizens the right to receive a pension. I want to say that year after year, we're seeing an increase in the age level of people going abroad to work. If 10 years ago it was mostly young women and men, there are today cases of departure for the purpose of employment of 40-45-50 years. Experts estimate that it is about seven million people, and we can estimate about what percentage of them are older citizens. Another argument for this is that the majority, more specifically, of several European countries are introducing loyal legislation to Ukrainian migrants, giving them the right to stay, which allows them to invite their relatives, especially parents who do not work there, but who are there, who earn a pension. It is a matter of paying pensions, which are hard - earned, hard work in Ukraine, but which citizens cannot obtain because of the discriminatory norm of existing legislation. And what I'm saying is that we can't talk about taking big money out of Ukraine, because it's estimated that between $5 billion and $8 billion per year is being imported into Ukraine by the work of Ukrainian citizens abroad. There are other arguments to be made, but I am very much asking you to support this bill, vote it as a basis, and then work on those observations that have been made by the scientific and expert department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u92	Thank you. Leo Gnatenko, please. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The faction was very careful to consider the matter. The question is very important, it refers to a very large number of our people, pensioners. So the faction decided to support the bill. And I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Olena Vasilovna, do you have it? She's about to receive instructions, she's on the phone. Olena Vasilovna, please. Hot Helen Vasilovna, deputy minister of social policy and work. Please take the position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs. The discussion on this issue showed how complex the processes that are taking place with our citizens who are abroad are. And today, the government is working on the Supreme Council's mandate to make interstate agreements with those who work. But Oxana Volodymyrna is asking another question today. And here we need to make clear to each of us and to those who listen to us today, it does not speak of Ukrainian citizens who have gone abroad on a permanent basis. It raises questions about those who are out of reach and cannot, and they are constantly living, for example, in Kiev or there in Lviv. And they're not leaving Ukraine, they're still citizens of Ukraine. And they cannot exercise their right to a pension. For example, they have to come to Kiev or to Lviv to apply and she proposes to do so through certified notary statements and implement this right is one question. Then those abroad who were already retired, for example, went to care for their children with their grandchildren or other problems. And that's a period that we're still dealing with in most cases. Because of the government's decisions, we have order, but maybe our individual employees in the Pension Fund or social protection agencies don't report this information to the compatriots, and these people are deprived of the possibility of receiving information from the law of direct action. But with regard to the issues raised by distinguished national MPs who are constantly living abroad, there is a very big problem. It's billions of dollars, because we can't give a person a pension today, I'm paying for it, which went abroad to a permanent place of residence. She earned that pension and she's entitled to it, but then we have to answer with respect to those who have gone abroad for 20 years, 30 and are abroad. And this is a very deep question and I think it should be the subject of another conversation with a detailed financial basis. And today, with respect for the opinion of the National MP, the government may propose to adopt the bill in the first reading, to focus on the issues that have been discussed today and to work on the second reading. But only for those who are temporarily present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Each of you has emphasized its relevance and importance. Unfortunately, not from a good life, you and I need to consider this bill. But that is the situation. The more I think everyone understands that, usually, the people who leave are not retirement age. I mean, the overwhelming number of people, these are young people, or pensioners, there are not so many and concerns about the fact that it's going to be an extra burden on the Pension Fund, it doesn't have a solid basis, because once again, I'm stressing that most people are going to work. Let's support the proposal of a first-reading committee on the adoption of this bill. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Public Pension Insurance", registration number 1042. [[on the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens who are abroad]] Please vote. [[11:25:50]] For 303 Copy that. Request for a profile committee: Given that we and the next plenary week are going to work faster, please prepare for the second reading so that we can finish the first session. We're looking at the draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian theater actor Les Kurbas. Bill 1085 registration number. As told by Les Stepanovich Tanjuk. Please prepare Mironenko-Clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! It's about marking the 120th anniversary of Les Kurbass' birth and entering the youth lists now, and it's going around the world, and I'll say a little bit: these days are 100 years old from the birth of Vera Marecko, the famous Soviet actress. I worked with her in Moscow, and then she says, well, you Ukrainians are such strange people, we already have six books on Meyerhold, and you still haven't worked out about Kurbass. Among other things, says Longenko called him his teacher, Gnat Jura called him his teacher, Maryanenko called him his teacher. We've already closed this gap, we've published some books, including the Moscow edition was about Les Kurbas and three books in Ukraine. But today, we do need to celebrate this Jubilee in whatever sense it takes to make the whole strategic theatre structure work a little bit better. The Kurbass system was not exactly Russian criticism called it Ukrainian Stanislavski because it was mainly his problem, it was the problem of raising a Ukrainian theatre school. And all those who ran the theatres after the war were actually Kurbass students from "Vasilka" from both Romanic and all the theaters of Ukraine that were created in the 1930s, as Ostap Vishna wrote, went away and were from the young theater, from the Les Kurbas Theatre. It is now in the room where the “Commolt of Ukraine”, where now the young theater is new and, in fact, there is this board that is standing today. It symbolizes the beginning of the Ukrainian Soviet theater. I would like us to support this proposal today, here many interesting and different things, so to speak, things are stated. I just want to remind you that in 1925, Kurbas brought to the Soviet Union the first gold medal from Paris, the first to be awarded the title of National Artist of Ukraine. In 1934, Kurbas was arrested in Moscow. U. put the "King Lear", the same famous King Lear, and was shot in 1937 with many representatives of the Ukrainian intelligence. He was rehabilitated right after his graduation in 1958, and his wife, Valentina Mikolayevna, was still alive in Kharkiv. And since then, we can say that Kurbas is actually the cousin of the Ukrainian new theater, so to speak. After that, the differentiation of schools began, and in fact it was for Ukraine and Stanislavsky and Meyerhead and Vachtango in the same role, because all the students began to differentiate after Les Kurbas. If there are any questions, I can add. We met on a committee, all of us, and the factions supported this project, and we didn't have any comments. I am grateful to Valérie Gabriela Locky as an outstanding theatre actor who actively supports this problem and would like your support. I'm really sorry that there's no 129 votes for this, because it's a historical thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Microphone from the scene, Valeria Gabrielna, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u99	Thank you very much. To what Leonid Stepanovich said, there's little to add, there's much to say, and yet there's no telling about this amazing great theater personality. I think Kurbas has become, come back, he's not just a Ukrainian director, a teacher. It has long become a world culture. Therefore, if it were possible to bring UNESCO and other organizations to that day, Ukraine could honestly share with a clear eye the vast spiritual wealth that was born on its territory. And the whole world would know how beautiful and great Ukrainian culture can be in the world culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's all clear. Thank you very much. I'm voting on the decision to celebrate the 120th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian theatre actor, Les Kurbas. Registration number 1085. Please be friendly. [[11:32:02]] For 298 Decision adopted. By factions, please, by factions. 184-Party of regions. Block Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine – 57, Socialists – 32, Communists – 21. About what? What happened at the Plains? Then. So, honourable colleagues, although we have four weeks today, and we have a corresponding 25th article of the Rules on Fridays in the first and third weeks, but since we're working today. Let's write it down and take an hour to get to the Vulnerable. Please sign up. Please explain. Please, Joseph of Winsky. I can't see. Then, please, Silchenko, is there a faction of socialists? Clearly, he's passing it on to Boko. Please. Ivan Sidorovich Boki, prepare the Garmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u101	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters, Ukrainian citizens. Our people have a very good saying: “He eats a lie and eats it.” She is most suitable for Mrs. Julia Timoshenko. In the last days, to the depth of her soul, she was offended that she had not become Prime Minister again, although Ukraine had already experienced all the horrors and all the troubles of her “coming”, Mrs. Timoshenko had launched a stormy campaign to obliterate the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz. For this she used both the Supreme Council rostrum and television, and yesterday she used a round table with the President and published information clearly taken from the “disturbingness fund” that the Supreme Council bought a 2.5 million ice cream furniture at a state expense. That's right. Mrs. Timoshenko knows very well that Alexander Alexanderus Moroz lives with a sick wife in a modest house where they stand, excuse me, the poor still Soviet furniture and does not intend to change it. But this lady doesn't need any evidence or documents. It is important for her to spoil a man, and there “although the grass does not grow”! And it's made by a woman! As they say, “Take away, replace and forgive her sin.” Mrs. Timoshenko and her factions spread lies about the bribery of socialist deputies, in general, as if in the Supreme Council they were “whispering coins”. And again, there's no evidence. The leader of her privatized bloc shaves off the entire Supreme Council. On this “horse ” she also wants to enter it, using the impunity and confidence of the electorate. Remember, such lies come out of it all the time. But he blamed our Ukraine for creating a transit server at the Election Counterfeiting Centres. It turned out that this was not true, to say the least, but Julia Volodymyrna did not even apologize. But when she apologized to and to whom. Yesterday she cursed the President, and today she is healing him, and no matter what the shadow of shame falls on her face. The time has come for everyone in Ukraine to understand nothing but lies and slanders by Mrs. Timoshenko. In revenge for the unsurpassed premiere, it is agreeable to everything, even to set Ukraine up. Send her to war to achieve her own. The fate of the people, their poverty doesn't concern them. It has already proved to be Christ, and it is agreeable for all to declare themselves Jews. But there is already one Mary the Virgin Christ in Ukraine, and two “Christs” in the skirt cannot. We socialists will be forced to use the force of the law to correct Mrs. Timoshenko’s slander. And to the voters, particularly journalists, we ask: “Do not believe her lies, do not confuse pluralism with adventure, or spread her sick fantasies. Ukraine is in danger and this danger has a specific face – Julia Timoshenko.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u102	Yes. Thank you. You've given her a very high rank. Harmash gives the word to Mikola Sadov. Please. He'll be followed by Michael Danielin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u103	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Deputies! Honorable Educators of Ukraine! As Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Science and Education, I declare this statement as a parliamentary appeal to the acting Prime Minister of the Honourable Mr. Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. By September 1st, there was almost a month left, and the problems that had not yet been solved remained extremely much. I'm only going to stop at four basics, which are urgent today, and they need to be solved immediately. A priority in Ukraine is the State Information Programme. It needs 1.8 million dollars. As far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, many things have already been done. All the high schools this year will end up getting personal computers, 30-50 percent of them will be connected to the Internet. But for 2007, there's only 150 million dollars to be allocated to the State budget, and 700 million dollars to be spent. Because information is not just the acquisition of personal computers and personal classes, it's also the Internet network, it's also electronic tools, it's software, it's the introduction of an education network called Uranus and a worldwide network, it's interactive systems and so on. I'm not going to decipher what this is, because we know all of the educators and the people who do the information. The next problem is salary. In the last two years, teachers have increased wages by 70 percent. But the teacher in the village, the teacher in the city, there's no other income than salary. Therefore, there is a need for a wage increase of at least 50 percent for 2007 in the State budget. It's about high school. So far, no funds have been allocated for repairs to the hostels. And that's less than or equal to 25 million dollars. And by September 1st, you can use some of this money and use this 25 million this year. And the last one is the problem of vocational education. For the first time, debts that have been accumulated have been repaid. However, 50 percent of PTSD is in an emergency. And it takes 10 to 15 million dollars to eliminate this emergency. Output one: either repair the heat exchanger, or there will be no education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u104	Please, Mikola Danilin. After him, Herman passes the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u105	Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Respectable TV and radio listeners, respected colleagues! A year and a half ago, during the period of the Orange Revolution, the Cabinet of Ministers ordered the placement of the State Court Administration and the Academy of Judges in a room belonging to the Minprompolitics at the location of the Mechanisms. At the time of the decision, there were three state-owned enterprises, including the state-owned heating equipment certification centre. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that so far more than three hundred users of our domestic heating equipment manufacturers have been involved in this certification centre. To date, at 8 a.m. this morning, a situation has arisen that all three representatives of these state-owned enterprises have not been allowed to work. That's where the security guys came in and shut it down. At the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers, a trial is ongoing for a year and a half. I want this to be an appeal to Prime Minister Ehanurov to address this problem. In this certification centre, especially in heating equipment, there is a unique equipment certified by some heating appliances, the only one in the territory of the former Soviet Union. There's still this unit in Moscow, that's all. That is, what has been created in Ukraine for decades has, to date, been virtually destroyed. No other premises have been provided to this certification centre until today. And I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers that the decisions that have been taken in a hasty manner and which are being tried by all parties to date have finally been the appeal of the people to develop our domestic production and to protect our domestic producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u106	Please, Alexander Stoyan. Get ready for Kilinkar's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u107	Alexander Stoyan, Ukrainian Party of Regions The theme of my presentation of proposals to create conditions for the normal future work of our colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Fatherland. You've heard, my fellow Members, repeatedly from Yulia Timoshenko, if Parliament is not dissolved, and we are convinced that it will not be dissolved, because there is no reason for this, the faction will continue to sit on its own, probably in the same basement where they are now sitting. So they're going underground. In this regard, the following suggestions are made for a normal organization of work. The first suggestion, dear Adam Ivanovich, is that you give the employees of the Apparatus a commission to check if the air conditioners work there, provide our colleagues with cold water so that they can cool their hot heads. Second sentence, set up a wage supplement for special, difficult working conditions in underground conditions. The third suggestion, so that we and the entire Ukrainian people know that they're taking it in the basement, to establish a periodical direct inclusion from the basement. Fourthly, if the faction of the Fatherland Party works in the basement for all five years, instead of the status of the civil servant, they will be granted the status of members of the underground. And the fifth proposal, it's already quite serious, from the names and the Anti-Crist Coalition, to ask our colleagues from the faction of the Party of Fatherland to get out of the underground, enough to build our society, enough to meet political parties, enough to kill their colleagues by the faction, get out of the underground, get into this room, sit in their jobs. And as a civil opposition to work, work with us, for an anti-crisis coalition in the name of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u108	Kilincarov passes the word to Vladimir Olatczko, a faction of Communists, please. The next Conclusion conveys the word, to prepare Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters. In the last days, I have received many calls from the voters of Mikolayevščina who appreciate the creation of the Anti-Crist Coalition and wait for the stability of the situation in the economy and social life. But they are concerned that the President is delaying his appointment as Prime Minister, that it is not more important for him to stabilize the situation in the state, not eliminate it, not increase the welfare of the population, but impose it against the will of the people to join NATO. Please tell us what democracy is when those who call themselves true democracies ignore the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is written "the people are the only source of power in Ukraine", fear a referendum on this issue, do not want to hear the opinion of most Ukrainians, hear the real truth about NATO. How can we look into the eyes of our citizens, even though by means of a television lens, to talk about great economic gains during their reign, about a significant increase in the welfare of our citizens, when these citizens daily, sorry, feel this well - being on their own skin, coming to a grocery store, or paying for community services? That modest increase in pensions and wages far from compensates for the daily rise in prices and tariffs. Fear God, Mr. President, Mr. Yehanurov. Such lies do not suit you. In fact, for 15 years now the genocide of the Ukrainian people, its extinction as a result of the impoverished external and external politics. Is it time to take care of your own people? Start living with your own mind and act with all branches of authority for the benefit and benefit of your own people. The government's concern for its own people is confirmed by the open letter of war veterans and the military service of the city of Mikolayeva to the President, Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence of Gristenka. I'll read the original language. Ladies and gentlemen, in 97 the Organization of Veterans of the City of Nikolayev was forced to address the leadership of the country: the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, to review and repeal the order of the General Staff and the District Operational, the South Operational Command for the Reorganization of Medical Institutions and the Ministry of Defence in the city of Nikolayev. Garrison Hospital 77 and Military Hospital. Such restructuring would lead to the de facto elimination of a clinic where veterans and the Armed Forces and war had previously been treated. It was extremely undesirable to try to move a polyclinic into the hospital and sell a polyclinic. In response to the military inspection and the Ministry of Defence, it was decided not to move the clinic. The management and the Ministry of Defence are continuing their policies, and the clinic is already being put on sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u110	Igor Alexeyev, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I'd like to inform you that yesterday, me and my faction colleagues, the People's Deputies of Borschevsky and Marmazov, were introduced and registered in the Supreme Council under number 1185 of the Supreme Council's decree on the exacerbation of the military conflict in the Middle East. This decision, inter alia, calls for the Supreme Council to approve the text of the appeal of the Supreme Council to the parliaments and governments of Israel, Palestine and Lebanon on the issue of the outbreak of the military conflict in the Middle East. And ask the President and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to propose an official condemnation of the outbreak of war in the Middle East. And with your permission, I will read out the text of this address that the Supreme Council is invited to accept. To the parliaments and governments of Israel, Palestine, Lebanon for the outbreak of military conflict in the Middle East. In recent weeks a new military conflict between Israel, Palestine, and Lebanon has resulted in mass casualties among the civilian population of all these countries. As well as the mass evacuation of citizens of other countries, including Ukraine. With each passing day, the danger of spreading this military conflict to neighboring countries is becoming more real, and the fight against terrorism has become an adequate criminal act against the people of Palestine and Lebanon in the complete perpetuation of the United States. We realize that diplomacy is doomed to failure and does not lead to a solution, but rather to a delay in and a exacerbation of the Middle East problem. That, not war, but merely the implementation of the UN resolution on the establishment of the Palestinian State and the maintenance of international peace, will be able to eliminate this conflict. In support of UN Secretary General Kofi Annan’s appeal to the sides of the conflict, the Supreme Council of Ukraine advocates an immediate cessation of military action against other countries, a ceasefire, an exchange of prisoners, and an organization of access for humanitarian assistance in war-stricken areas. It calls on the parliaments and governments of these countries to “Stop the war” and address all issues only through peaceful negotiations. It requires all conditions to ensure the sovereignty and independence of each side of the conflict to return refugees and captives to their countries and to their lands. I propose to implement all the UN resolutions on the establishment of the Palestinian State, so only a complete solution to the Palestinian problem is a prerequisite for stability in the Middle East. And we express the hope that by working together and with the active influence of the international community, the escalation of violence in the Middle East will be halted and conditions will be created for citizens of all countries, including Ukraine, to live in peace and harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is Rephat Chubarov, the faction “Our Ukraine”. To prepare for Matthew, he conveys the word to Borschev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, honourable voters today, it would seem that there are no people in Ukraine who do not know the tragic fate of the Crimean Tatar people, who were not only subjected to total deportation, but almost half a century and forced into exile. But perhaps not everyone is aware that after the deportation of the Crimean Tatars, not only were all Crimean toponyms that pointed to history, religion, culture, the indigenous peoples of the peninsula renamed, but all the cult buildings of Crimean Tatars were demolished. Amazingly, although in a terrible state, several architectural monuments and cultural monuments have been preserved. Since the early years of their return, which has become possible since the late 1980s, the Crimean Tatars have made every effort to preserve those single monuments that have not been destroyed in Soviet times. One such monument is the famous Muslim shrine of Aziz in Bahchisarai, which lasts for a week in opposition to the fact that in the territory of this both cultural and religious, and historical monument, there is still a market that was founded in Soviet times, and today it is a private enterprise. Regrettably, despite the fact that the various levels of civil servants and the Crimean community, in the first place, have tried to resolve this issue so that the Muslim sanctuary is freed and finally passed on to the community. Sadly, the situation is still so tense. This has much to do with the fact that some of the Crimean politicians are using such incidents for other reasons. He uses such cases to simply realize his political interests, personal interests. I don't know such a case in Ukraine in any area, if a religious community demanded for six to seven years that the market go from there and that the authorities and the public in this area would not find a way out in six to seven years that would satisfy everyone. Sadly, this is possible in Crimea. Perhaps because anti - Tatar stereotypes are high. I come from this rostrum to the Party of the Regions to talk to their one-party in the Bahchisarai City Council, the Crimean Supreme Council, so that the ungodly who trample on the markets don't care whether Muslim or Christian or other shrines are not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u114	Yes, please, Victor Borszewski, the Communist faction, is handing over Eutukov to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u115	Borszewski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovščina. Respectable voters, respected colleagues. Today's political crisis, which has arisen because of the lack of understanding by our President of his constitutional responsibilities, has unfortunately extended to regions. For the second time, I draw your attention to the situation that arose in the Dnepropetrov region. Today, Dnepropetrovsky is unable to begin work because the illegal actions of the former head of the district electoral commission, the unskilled, the interference of unqualified vessels hampers the decision to have Dnepropetrovsky begin work. And there's been a lot of problems in the area. First. This is due to an increase in electricity prices, tariffs and other services. This is not only a threat to the inhabitants, but today the efficiency of production is at stake. The area that provides a quarter of the budget today faces the threat of a full stop in production. Problems also arise in housing and utilities. Because today, the closure of the two most important Auija and Sofia water lines is threatened because of the lack of electricity and 70 per cent of the cost of water is the price of electricity. I would therefore like to ask for support today to give a protocol mandate to the relevant committee to consider immediately the situation in the Dnepropetrov area. I am concerned about the fact that the CWC is silent and does not respond to unskilled, mildly speaking, actions of the Chairman of the Regional Electoral Commission. Today, the problems that have been artificially brought to this room, I repeat, are the problems of our President. He must understand that action to introduce the Prime Minister's candidature is not his wish, it is a constitutional duty. And it is time to end this chaos throughout the country, to take concrete action on the withdrawal of the country from the crisis, to do everything possible to earn production in order to address social problems, including the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u116	Thank you. John Popescu, the word Grigorovich Lilia is used to prepare the Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! With your permission, I'd like to draw your attention to some problems that need an urgent solution. When I was in the Chernobyl area on weekends, I was able to get to know where the problems that citizens are raising in front of us were. First. I have already spoken from this rostrum about the need to restore the bridge between the villages of Lower and Upper Petrovci of the Watch Tower region, which are in an emergency. Some work is done, but their pace is not satisfied. It is essential that the Ministry of Emergency Situations urgently allocate the necessary funds and speed up the recovery work, since the rains will begin in October and these work will not be complete. I'm going to remind you that there's more than 7,000 people in between these two villages, and that's a problem getting to the hospital and even to the cemetery. Another problem. When developing the 2007 draft budget, it is necessary to provide for gasification costs in rural areas, namely: For the gas line. To date, these 5.7 million have not been completely extinguished and there is a big problem that this gas pipeline will be put into service. The other one. We also need funds for the Watchtower gas pipeline, Budenec-Krasnilski. ‘ Lower and Upper Petrovitsa. This is about 30,000 people living in the area, and they also need to be helped, not just by the final principle. I'm pointing out that the Watchtower area is one of the largest areas in the region. There is also a need for funds to be made available for the gasification of the Hertzian region, which is hardly gassed. We also need funds to pay off the organization. The cost that this organization has spent on building the gas in the village of Bojanino Novoselicki district, but no one has allocated these funds to this day. We were very concerned about the upcoming meetings of the mixed Ukrainian-Romanian Commission on Compliance with National Minorities by representatives of the National Cultural Associations of the Montenegrin District for possible privatisation. The former house of officers, which until 1944 was the cultural palace of the Romanian Bukovina, was built at the expense of the Romanian community of Ukraine. And after 1944, he was nationalized. The Romanian Community of Ukraine refers to the President of Ukraine, the City Council of the City of Chernivts, the Demmeina Foundation, all competent authorities legally required to suspend the privatization of these premises, to return them to the Romanian community, and on this basis to open a national library, museums, a Romanian higher education facility, theatres and offices for all Romanian newspapers and non-governmental organizations. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary address. Finally, I would like to point out that not only were the Crimean Tatars deported, so were the Romanians. But there is no formal recognition to date and no compensation. When the people returned, they were glad to be allowed to return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u118	Please, Lilia Grigorovitch, “Our Ukraine” faction, to prepare Cibenko, passes the word Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u119	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Thank you for your word, I would like to address my fellow national MPs, as well as the entire Ukrainian community, with a comment that was on all the national television screens yesterday. This is the National Round Table, with the participation of the President of Ukraine and the political forces. We talked about a lot of things in this room today. And I got a lot of calls last night from the voters of the East, the South, the West of Ukraine comment that was about that. What a strong president we have and which of the permission to say weak national elite. What is the power of the President of Ukraine? In his love for Ukraine and in his desire for successful national progress. What is the weakness of our national elite? In the minority, in much smaller interests, political, conjunctural. All the masks were taken off yesterday. Yesterday you could see who was who. Dear friends, I wanted to see someone who didn't sign under the National Universal, because four Universities of the Ukrainian People's Republic is our worthy historical and legal tradition. But someone who's willing to lead the revolution to the end, maybe by the end of this world, someone is willing to cling to anti-government interests, losing the vestiges of interest, and again I think that counterfeiting, bribery, manipulation can go through the walls of this Parliament without going through the elections. Dear colleagues! I only have a black copy here, but that's July 11th, when a man from Lugansk, a non-Klinchayev, walked into the Parliamentary Hall by accident. We've never had one of these before. So, dear friends, I would like to wish you a successful job at today's national round table, and our so-called elite to pass a test on the right to be called the elite of this country and this nation. At the same time, I wanted to talk to everyone. It's no secret that there's a difference between one voice and another in about 15 votes. It is not a secret that there is no big difference today and among our electorate, our electorate. But throughout this time the opposition has had to be different forces, different parties – the People's Movement of Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party, Communists, Socialists, “Our Ukraine” – we have been and are once again in opposition, the Party of Regions and so on. But there is a taboo that will never cross a citizen -- not in power, not in opposition, it's sacred: it's the unitary integrity of the territory, it's language, it's not using the church of agitation for any policy. These taboos were crossed literally recently. So I want to emphasize that the opposition that passes the taboo is weak. Weak opposition can never be a strong power. And I want, dear friends, today, on the round table, to understand this, especially those who consider themselves to be winners today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u120	Thank you, although the results of the vote today show that we are working well together. Please, Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Assemble.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u121	That's what I want to say to Lilia Grigorovich about her speech, but I'm gonna hold back, honestly. That's because hanging labels on each other today is the last thing. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u122	Abstinence will be of good health, Nikolai Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u123	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the purpose of my statement today is to familiarize myself with the MP's request that I sent to the Kiev City Head today. As President of the All-Kakarin Union for the protection of the rights of drivers, I am approached by a mass of people from the city of Kiev. The point is that in Kiev, the Kiev Council imposed a so-called forced evacuation of vehicles. What's behind it? Brigades, 11 evacuators, suspicious militias, suspicious brigades with fictitious receipts that have no complete vehicle seizure documents. They come to the parking lot, and without any reason, they're loading the car. In addition, most women with children are tracked, and those who cannot protect themselves during this period are loaded. If a woman manages to jump out and take action, they take $400 with her and leave. I mean, it's a complete mess. In order to let you know, on April 5, 2001, we passed a bill, which will return a law clearly prohibiting the removal of license plates and, more importantly, the forced transport of transport. The point is that, to date, transportation of a car in this form costs more than 3.5 thousand bracelets. Imagine, and Kiev has now decided to acquire 50 such evacuators, a tender has already been announced. And so we get that there's nothing we can do, and the execution is supposed to be filled with these violators. It's illegal, so today I've made a proposal to the Attorney General to protest this issue, to verify the targeted use of this money, and that it's the brigades that drive around the city, collect, you'll remember that it's just going to start working with the bandits who are going to kidnap cars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u124	Thank you. Yes, please, Smyr. None. Jaroslav Suhi talked today. Yes, Koleschenko, please, the faction of “Regions”. Prepare Chukmasov. I don't see Sergei. Polakov. None. Cozub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u125	The faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Koleshničenko, Sevastopol. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to what many of us say about the strong President who is supposedly in charge of our State. In fact, however, I would like to illustrate, in the case of the town of Sevastopol, how merchants in the forces of the Ministry of Defence, and the Minister of Defence is personally under the authority of the President of Ukraine, trading our public and utility assets. During the past five years, the Ministry of Defence has illegally, in violation of existing legislation and the Supreme Council's decree, turned sports facilities, namely stadiums, into construction sites. Literally six months ago, in the center of the town of Sevastopol, a huge, beautiful football stadium, which was called a military town, was sold at auctions. The City Council has repeatedly requested the Minister of Defence not to commit such illegal acts and to declare that we would not allow this facility to be reprofiled. However, the Minister of Defence responded to the City Council in a remarkable way that he believed that there were sports facilities in Sevastopol where people could improve their physical health. I think that such a response from the Minister of Defence and such actions by the Ministry of Defence are very clear about the President's attitude towards Ukrainian citizens and the Sebastopols. And this once again shows that local self-government has neither power nor power. Moreover, my colleagues from southern Ukraine have confirmed that the Ministry of Defence has consistently been a trader and a military facility called military towns, either selling or dropping the necessary documentation without transmission. And in these military cities, there are people who can't get housing or normal utilities. I therefore believe that it is time to hand over to the blasted merchants from the Ministry of Defence and to bring to justice the Minister of Defence himself and, on behalf of the Sevastopols, to the MPs, let us, at least in this chamber, accept the Law on the City of Hero Sevastopol, so that local self-government and the inhabitants of Sevastopol can finally form the executive power of the accountable, under the control of the local population.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u126	Thank you. We have accepted him five times, now the task of overcoming the President’s veto. Please, Alexander Kozub. Dear colleagues! All those who wanted to speak, all those who had been recorded had the opportunity to speak. What's your last name? Myrrhichenko, go to the rostrum. From my reserve, I'll give you three minutes for good behavior in the session room. Cosub passed it on, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u127	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Recently, from the mouth of some of the politicians represented in Parliament, you have heard the accusations of our colleague and our entire political force of the Party of Regions as if we have a bearing on bribery in the Supreme Council Hall. We categorically deny this fact, and the more it infuriates us with who this information was actually presented. As we know, Mr. Turkinov, who is part of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, worked as head of the SBU, had a bearing on the film and knew how film could be falsified. And the very personality of Mr. Lášk, who has presented disgraceful information to society, as to our conviction, forged, is also known to have been working as the editor-in-chief of some newspapers, such as “Policy”, “Freedom” has repeatedly participated in the creation of political provocations, the conduct of political pyars of actions to discredit politicians known in our country. That is why, from the foregoing, we demand that that commission, the Commission of Inquiry, which we have already created, do the following. First, as soon as possible, to investigate, verify the facts presented by Mr. Lášek and report to the Supreme Council, and to all society. Secondly, to evaluate the actions of politicians and political forces that engage in provocation, slander and disregard the principles of freedom of speech, which envision the objectivity and truthfulness of information, especially from the mouth of parliamentarians. And thirdly, to make a public apology, both before our political power and before the Supreme Council, and her Head, Alexander Alexander Moroz, after learning the truth of the slanderers who spread these slanders. At the same time, we leave the right to defend, to defend the honor, dignity, and reputation of our political power, and of specific deputies in court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-28-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all of you have had the opportunity to express what has hurt their souls, we have reason to declare the morning session closed. I inform you that according to the previous decree, July 31, we have a session day on Monday. So, in the morning we'll hold the Conciliation Council, and at 16 o'clock on Monday, July 31st, the Supreme Council's meeting. And according to the decree adopted today, we are in session mode, the first session, will work until the Cabinet of Ministers is formed. Monday at 4:00 p.m. Good luck. I'll see you later.
