ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:02:08]] There were 391 people’s deputies ’ cards registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Please listen to the results of the February 23rd plenary session of the Supreme Council. We worked pretty hard with you yesterday, and we looked at 65 issues of the agenda. As a result of their consideration, 21 laws and nine decrees were passed, three bills were adopted on a basis, 15 bills and five draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of Presidential proposals, 14 laws have been passed in a new edition and five laws have been repealed. Please listen to the announcement: in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Smjanek Igor Mikolaiovich from the political party’s deputy faction “Resurrection” and his membership in the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction. Yes, on Friday, respected colleagues, in line with article 2.5. 2 Rules we have 30 minutes to present proposals, requests, applications, and messages to the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I'll call in the MP's questions. The question came from the MPs: Alexander MARCHENK to the President of Ukraine, the head of the Semenyuk Foundation, for the purpose of filming his advertisement. [[You have a board, look.]] I'm voting to support the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:41]] For-21 Not supported. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the President of Ukraine, the Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs's responsibility to provide comprehensive information on the signing of the Confidential Memorandum on Ukraine's commitment to NATO's accelerated accession, which poses a threat to national security. Please vote. [[10:05:18]] For-58 Even the author does not vote for his request. Mr. Katerinczuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of violations of legislation during the announcement of requests by the national deputies by the first deputy of the Supreme Council. How does he see these violations? Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Council, the prime minister's duty to fail to comply with the requirements of the Act on the State-Legal Experiment of Local Self-Government in Irpin, the village of Butch, Warzel, Hostomel, the Kyiv Region of Cotsubin. John BOKHO to the Head of the Supreme Council for a report on the arrival at the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania’s letter from the national deputy of Saddow about the allocation of 2 million bracelets for the purchase of an apartment. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors on the legality of the maintenance and use of facilities and land by the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Customs Service, for an unsatisfactory response to a request for customs clearance of individual goods. Aleksandra LESHINSKI AND VasilI VASIL PHOTO to the prime minister’s duties to repair the Oster Czernigów region’s platoon. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister for the self-inflicted increase in the value of bread through the leadership of the Open Shareholder Society “Poltavian Breadcombinate”. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the prime minister’s responsibility to allocate funds for the rehabilitation of buildings on Elevatorni Street in Chernigov. Igor ŠAROVA to the performers of the duties of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of the BSB, the Attorney General, the Head of the Administration of the State Border Service to prevent Ukraine from losing the island of Snakes, violating its territorial integrity and developing by other States of beneficial fossils located at the top of the continental shelf near the island. Stanislaw THE Prime Minister’s responsibility to heat up the children’s garden and residential buildings in the city of Berezan, Kyiv. John TOMIĆA to the prime minister's responsibility to speed up the allocation of funds for partial compensation for agricultural farm costs per hectare of winter crops. Boris RYKOVA to the Prime Minister's duty to discriminate against persons with disabilities of work disability subsidies to compensate for the cost of housing and utilities. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the prime minister, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Head of State, the Attorney General’s Office on the manipulation of the scientific potential of the State and the involvement of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. SLABENKA to the prime minister’s responsibility to create today’s administrations of the State Customs Service for the smuggling of meat and meat through Ukraine. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties to provide information on the National Energy Shareholder's contract with the American nuclear waste storage company Chernobyl AES. [[BRONNIKOV, COMAR, VERNIDOUBOV AND OTHERS]] Mr. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister’s responsibility to raise wages for inspectors of the district and city education departments. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the prime minister’s responsibility to restore the radio communication system in the Vinick region affected by the natural disaster. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the prime minister's duties to close the dry nuclear fuel depot at Zaporezki AES. John TOMIĆA to the prime minister's duties regarding the obstacles to farmers to receiving the budget to partially offset the costs of crops of the winter crops. Alexander LESHINSKI AND ALEXIA KORSAKOVA to the prime minister’s responsibilities for gasification of the city of Oster Czernigów. Mr. Mikoli MELNIKA and Mr. Igor KALIČNIK are responsible for the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Secretary-General of the RNBO for bringing to justice the Head of the State Customs Service of Yegorov for the illegal acquisition of an interest-free loan in the amount of $200,000. Mr Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Acting Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Secretary of the RNBO, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the State Customs Service on the unfinished and unapproved energy conservation program “Native House”. Igor ŠURMI to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration for the granting of mountain status to the population of the Bogorodčan district of Ivano-Frankiv region. A group of deputies to the prime minister, the Secretary of the RNB, to increase the operational capacity of bases, arsenals, ammunition depots and military training of the Armed Forces. [[BRONNIKOV, COMAR, VERNIDOUBOV AND OTHERS]] Paul TRUTHANA to the prime minister’s duty to help health - care workers to carry out their sentences in rural areas. Igor KALLIČANKA and Viktor ZAIČKA to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, regarding the use by the Head of State Customs of Egor's service transport for their own purposes to provide for the needs of the family. Eugene LAPINA to the prime minister's responsibility to conclude a general agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers, the All-Ukrainian Employers' Union and the All-Ukrainian Trade Unions for 2006-2010. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the prime minister’s responsibilities to allocate funds to treat patients with viral hepatitis. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister's responsibility for compensation from the State Budget for enterprises in the region of Putil region of Cherniewec, 25 per cent of the premium for the status of mountain settlements. Victor ANTEMUCA to the prime minister’s responsibilities, the Ministry of Defense for Retirement of Retirement for Military Pensioners — the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the prime minister’s duties to combat flooding and flooding in the Kalanchi region of the Hersonian region. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Attorney General, Head of the Sevastopol City Public Administration regarding the protection of the right of Ukrainians to raise their children in Ukrainian and to prevent the destruction of the Ukrainian children's library in the city. RAISES OF THE rich to the prime minister's duties in connection with the insufficient provision of medicines for the disabled of the first group of general illness. The Igor of THE Ugly to the Prime Minister’s duty to lose the State budget as a result of the imperfect order of the registration of small craft in Ukraine and the need to make changes to it. THE Prime Minister’s responsibility to increase the consumption limits of natural gas for the open-ended “Equineazot” stockholder society is Paul SULKOVSKOVSK. Igora STAŠA to the prime minister's duties regarding the situation surrounding Borispil Airport. Mary MARKUS to the prime minister, the Attorney-General, for the avoidance of the leadership of the Open Shareholders Association Paulogil from the execution of court decisions on the payment of monetary compensation to miners for violating the deadline for payment of disability-related assistance. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV, to the Cabinet of Ministers, for the payment of compensation to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in the region of the Rhineland and Dubrovnik for unused sanatorium travel in 2004 and other guaranteed payment laws. Mr Paul KILLYEN and Mr Mikoly HEADING for Vice-Prime Minister Kirilenko's duties to grant the status of the “National Reserve” to the Bilje City of Poltavian Region. Mr. Yurya BOJEKA to perform the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in the construction of a monument in Kiev to the outstanding Ukrainian writers Gregory and Gregory Tobacco. VADIM LITWIN to the Attorney-General, Head of the Head of Staff, Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the legality of the granting of interest-free loans to the head of the State Customs Service at the expense of the State budget. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the unlawful closure of criminal proceedings for causing bodily harm to the citizen of Burov. Vladimir DEMOCHIN to the Attorney General, the Health Ministry’s officials, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the interim commission of inquiry for the verification of corruption reported through the media, the abuse of the office of individual officials regarding illegal management and the personnel of the Herson District Hospital. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Science on the appropriateness of being the Rector of the National University of Physical Education and Sports, Platonova, in connection with the violation of legislation. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Attorney General for unlawful delay by officials of the Mukazów District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakarpatsky area of the investigation into the injured Kohan. Dmitry HOLYTAŠA to the Attorney General, Head of the HeadCRA, for the purpose of using the funds that came in the form of subsidies from the State Budget for the needs of the Moscow district of Harkov in 2002 - 2005. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the discovery by the Provincial Prosecutor of a criminal case involving the service negligence of employees of the Kirovograd United State Tax Inspectorate. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General on the misconduct of the management of the Open Shareholder Society. Vojša to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the officials of the City Council of Tsurupina in renting the premises of the Zurupina Children’s School of Music. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, for the reconciliation of the post of head of the Dublin District State Administration, Alexander Kozak, with entrepreneurial activity. OLECSIJUCA’S branch to the Attorney General regarding the invocation of responsibility for violating the laws of the Moskovsky Patriarchate supporters who obstructed religious rituals and tried to defeat the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in Ostrog. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General, Head of the State Main Foundation, for the return to the state ownership of the stock control package of the Open Shareholder Society of the Herson Combins. The Gennady of the Stanice to the Attorney General on the unlawful actions of the Head of the Hertzian Reichsgericht of the Cherniew region. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Attorney General on the facts of unlawful implementation by State Tax Inspection of the City Kramator Property of the Open Shareholder Society “CramatorGilBud”. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, mentioned in his statement to the resident of the city of Raven about the existence of signs of corruption on the part of officials of internal affairs and judicial authorities. Ms. Olga KOBECZ to the Attorney General for not infringing the Office of the Attorney - General of the Herson District of Criminal Justice for beating up a citizen of the Final Fellows of the Department of Internal Affairs. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the protection of constitutional rights for safe living and the health of residents of buildings on the street of Lipa in Lviv. [[CHECK, KENJOR. RUSSIAN AND OTHERS]] Vitalia MIKA to the Attorney General for blocking the work of a limited company with limited responsibility for the SouthSevGazStray Joint Undertaking. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the housing rights of residents of a hostel on the street of Surikov in Kiev and on the efforts of the Open Shareholders Association “The Lenin Cow” to evict residents, including veterans of work, disabled persons, single mothers with minor children without the provision of other housing. ANTON RUSSIAN OF THE Attorney - General’s Office regarding the responsibility of the Head of the State Customs Service of Yegorov and his First Deputy Fedorov as direct organizers of the smuggling of meat and meat through Ukraine. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General on the inflammation of interreligious hostility in the State by the Party “Region of Ukraine” and its leader, Viktor Janukovic. Mr. Vadim LITWIN to the Attorney General, Head of the Head of the Court of Auditors, on the involvement of the current leadership of the State Customs Service in the financing of the election campaign of ex-President Leonid Kuchma. WOLDODIMARY JAVORIVSKI to the Attorney General about the investigation of sales at the London auction of Kiev lands, with which residents of the building along the streets of Yaroslavi Val, 11 associate forced evictions from privatized apartments for capital reconstruction. Mr. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Attorney General for the violation of labour law and the abuse of office by the Head of the Provincial Provincial Authority of the Zakarpat district of Ljubimov regarding a subordinate official. Oleg KARJOWA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs’s duties regarding the inadequate response of the prosecutor’s office and the Office of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk district to the murder of a citizen, Rizko, and the theft by a group of traitors of property belonging to the wife and daughter of the deceased. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General, Head of the National Bank on the situation around the Bank “Guarant”. Dmitra SVÁTAŠA to the Attorney General on the legality of the decision of the Kharkiv City Council regarding the removal of land to the investor Elitestroy company. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the holdingmeine Foundation for the illegal privatization of the Gavrilovska Market in the city of Drádkovka. Mr. Alexander MARCHENK to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors of Internal Affairs, to verify the possible falsification of the electoral process and to take an illegal decision by the Regional Electoral Commission of Kiev. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to systematically fail to perform the functions and obligations of the State to ensure the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. Igor ŠAROV to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the BSC on the conditions of mercury pollution in the State Television and Broadcasting Committee. Mr Bokogo and Mr Mikoli ZADOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, performer of the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs with regard to the legality of the transfer of property of the Nikita Botanical Garden of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences to the statutory fund of the Society with limited responsibility for “Science Recreation Centre for Planting and Landscape Design”. Vladimir SKLARA to the Attorney General’s Office for Law Enforcement in Privatization of Objects in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Transport’s duty and liaison to investigate improperly the facts of the widespread violation of citizens’ rights and the possible involvement of the senior management of the Lviv Railway in corruption schemes in the distribution of housing at the Wagon DEPO station of Dobołów. Mr. John Vernidubov and Mr. Jaroslav SOCIETY to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights regarding the violation of labour law by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Government Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing Buildings for the Violation of Legislation in the Housing of Young Families in the Winnicki Region. Vladimir ZAJIJA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA on illegal interference in the manufacturing process, unfounded search and removal of Society documents with limited liability of “KLO” officers of the Kyiv Region Tax Police Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General on the misconduct of the officials of the Swatov District of Lugansk Region. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of individuals who attacked the branch office in Suma. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General about the misconduct of Yaltin’s employees at the Office of Internal Affairs and Yalta’s Office of Public Prosecutions. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General for the non-payment of wages to a company employee with limited liability to the “Framework Plant” of the city of Slavyanska in his release. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy’s responsibility to violate the rules governing the leasing of land transferred to private property. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Transport’s duties and liaison regarding the inadmissibility of transferring the state’s road sector to the administration of local self - government authorities. VICTOR DRAČEVSKI to the Minister of Health’s responsibilities as to the reasons for the outflow from Ukraine of highly qualified doctors and nurses, making appropriate decisions regarding the preservation of the staff of health care professionals in cities and district centers. Sergey ŽIŽEKA to the Minister of Defense’s duties regarding the inadmissibility of unlawful alienation of the property of the Chernobyl garrison for the benefit of other services of the Ministry. Larissa VAZAČENKO, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Education and Science, Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, on the proper resolution of housing and financial and material problems of the graduates of the “Orian” Children's House. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the inaction of employees of the Ohtyr interdistrict department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the detection of a crime committed against the “MET” farm. Anton KISSE is responsible for the Ministry of Defence's responsibility to violate legislation by the Department of Health of the Ministry of Defence. ANDRYA SCHOOL is responsible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for signing a readmission agreement and simplifying the visa regime between Ukraine and the European Union. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Acting Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with the execution of the decision to transfer to the administration of the State of Housing on the street of Gethtman Semibotka in Chernig and the criminal responsibility of the head of the Shareholder Society, Chernig OblBud, for failing to execute the court’s decisions. Gennady RUDENKA to the Minister of Justice’s duties to enforce the judgment concerning the citizen of Ovcharenko of the village of Gogoleva in the region of Poltava. MIKOLI MELNIKA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Health to carry out the operation of a tutor at Tulčina boarding school. Mr. Alexander Goluba is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the improper investigation of a criminal case involving a traffic accident. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for Sanatorium Treatment and Recovery of Children and Parents with Children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Valeria BORZOVA to perform the duties of the Minister of the Coal Industry to remove from the production association “UkrHuglheology” of the “Izumrud” boarding house Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Minister of Defense’s duties to verify that there is a violation of the order in which homeless members of the Vinnick garrison’s army are provided with housing. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Minister of Defense’s duty to open an air defence station in dangerous proximity to Chernigov’s residential buildings, whose electromagnetic radiation may threaten the health of local residents, patients located near a district hospital, a hospital for war invalids, and interior workers. MICHELLE’S DIFFERENT OF THE MINISTRY’S Responsibilities on Emergency Situations and People’s Protection from the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibilities to restore water and heat to the village of Volodymyrovka, in the area of Donetsk, and to hold individuals responsible for the purposeless use of funds allocated to the reconstruction of the water supply network. Kirila POLIŠČUKA is responsible for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health regarding the need to provide hearing aid to a three - year - old child who lives in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv district. Group of Deputies to the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing for the inclusion of a collective enterprise, the “First-Major City Water Channel” of the Mikolai region, in the State-wide Water of Ukraine programme for 2006. [[SUSTAINABLE, SULKOVSKI, COMAR]] Ms. Volodymira CHAPPETINE is responsible for the Ministry of Education and Science’s task of increasing the level of pay to teachers who work in institutions for children with disabilities. A group of deputies to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Emergency Affairs, and the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for providing information on the impact of the Chernobyl AES grave on nuclear waste storage in the city of Kiev and Kiev and on the health of the population. [[MAKEENKA, BRONNIKOVA AND OTHERS]] Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Minister of Defence's responsibility to collect pensions by age for employees of the state-owned airline “Aviakon”. valentine SAVIC as the first deputy of the Ministry of Health’s responsibility to prevent and combat HIV/AIDS in the Kyiv region. Larissa VACHENKO to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the Chief of State for Road Traffic Inspection, for violations of legislation by representatives of the Chief State Inspectorate for Road Transport. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the Demmeine Foundation for the payment of dividends and the transfer of shares, according to contracts, to the Dubovicki family in Lubna Poltavian region. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Head of the Higher Qualifying Commission for the Disciplinary Responsibility of Judges of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Shulga, Kozir and Semchuk. The branch of the ŽIŽKA to the Head of the SBU, the Attorney General, on the corruption of the head of the Rakhiv District Court of Emchuk. Anton KISSE to the Head of Odessa District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the architecture monument and the construction of the “Fire canal” in Bolgrad. MICHAEL SETINIE to the Kiev City Head for the annulment of the decision of the Kiev City Council and the preservation of the pharmacy No.60 of the Communion Company “Farmation”. Orestes KLIMPUSHA to the Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the High Council of Justice on the violation of the rights of citizens of the Karavavi daci cooperative, by the Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev. Mikoli KUHARCHUKA to Head of HeadCRO on the verification of the activities of the “Agro-firma “Rubesovska” in relation to the transfer of property to municipal property. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the State Road Service for the allocation of road and sidewalk repair costs in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. Victor TEREN to the Head of the Ivano-Frankow Regional Administration for the unmotivated increase in the cost of renting trading venues to private enterprises “Vysniki” in the city of Navirni. [[TARA]] LEVA BIRUKA to the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region for violation of the Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Housing Laws by the Director of the Triple Power Plant. Michael ZUBZA to the procurator of the Herson region for the restoration of property rights of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences on the basis of the rest of the Ascan farm. Vladimir LEVCUN to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, the Supreme Council of Justice for violating the requirements of the Family Code by the High Town District Court of the Kyiv Region and the officials of the High Town District State Administration. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the prosecutor of the Luhansk region for the protection of the housing and property rights and legitimate interests of the citizen of Philippenica. National deputies Rodionov and Bondarczuk are under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to allocate funds for the completion of the construction of the Kyiv device hospital in Kiev. Dasutina. Gregory Dasutin to U.S. Attorney General Medvedzka on debt repayment for sugar beet company “Ukrainian Sugar Plant”. Thus, the honourable colleagues received 122 parliamentary inquiries. "Regions of Ukraine" – 22, Communists – 13, Block of Timoshenko – 12, People's Party – 5, Our Ukraine – 16, Socialist Party of Ukraine – 10, People's Block of Lithuania – 6, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs – 2, People's Movement of Ukraine – 4, Political Party of Reform and Order – 1, non-fractional – 7. Yes, please point out who signed up for the performance. 30 minutes. Please, Orzhachowski. After him, Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u2	Anatoly Orzhachowski. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to the colleague Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, we have 28 days left to raise candidates. The representative of our faction, Valérie Mishur, has already spoken of the use of administrative resources here in the hall this week. I want to talk about using it on a country-wide scale. The Communist faction began collecting signatures in December, initiating a gathering of them, for the resignation of the government when all government officials — from the Prime Minister and vice-premiers, heads of administration — went to the election in friendly lines. The President's recommendations -- taking vacations at this time -- are not being implemented. Officials use their position as a means of campaigning for a party or a block in which they have been entraped. I received a letter from Poltava. The leaders of more than ten political parties, public organizations, are indignant at the fact that Bulba’s head of administration is using his office. On February 14, at a meeting on the occasion of the Day of Honor, participants in combat in Poltava were essentially called to agitation for one party and for its program. On February 16, the public of Poltava in front of the administration’s house held a protest in this regard. Shareholders asked the head of the administration to take a vacation and asked the President to release him not only for the use of his official position but also for the significant shortcomings in the leadership of the area he allowed. This address is addressed to the President. I would like to see that the Temporary Special Commission on Election Law Monitoring is more speedily involved in the investigation of electoral processes in the last month. I want to ask you, isn't it using the administrative resources of this fuss around signing some memorandum between the oranges, which has been broadcast several times a day on every television channel for two weeks? How many subjects do we have in the electoral process: five or 45? We ask the President to recommend once again to his officials and heads of administration to take a vacation, and some, as recommended by the Poles, not to return from it. For its part, the UK Company assures the voters that we have conducted and run our electoral company honestly and openly, without using administrative resources. And I'm sure our program, our goal, is to understand and perceive voters. And finally, I'm talking to our Ukrainians and our fighters: guys, get off the horse you're riding, which is called intact, and don't mislead the voters. The Supreme Council did not adopt the Law on the Intactness of Deputies, but rather the procedure for bringing MPs to account. And this is said to be two big differences in Odessa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u4	Michael Loboda, Communist faction. Igor Sharov, please give us the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Sergey Gmyrra, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, what's happening in our country lately is something you won't call crazy. However, Shakespeare also said that there is a system in every madness. And it's a black, scary system. Tonight, some submersibles desecrated the Vatutina monument in Kiev, painted it. Otherwise, they can't be called scum. But I repeat, this is a very clear system. In the centre of Kiev, the police have a church in front of them, and no one is taking any action. On 23 February, on a holy day for millions of our people whose credit to the country is incomparably greater than that of Victor Yushchenko, so 23 February, the President does not have time to congratulate these people on their holiday. It's scary, it's sacrilegious. Our Ukraine distributes calendars, which on 9 May are the black days of the calendar, with a circulation of five hundred thousand. They are the people who want to take over today, to continue to seize power, and they regret that Ukraine has not been captured by German fascists. They don't consider 9 May a holiday in our calendar. I would also like to say on such a matter. Several times yesterday, through the media, Mr. Yvchenk's statement that he would not come to Parliament before the elections was made because he did not want to prove that he was not a goat. Well, you know, Ivchenka's exotic statements are known for a long time. He recently stated that the head of the neighbouring friendly Power was acting with Asian cunning. He not only insulted the head of that Power, not only the current Prime Minister of Ukraine, but also hundreds of thousands of citizens of our country. Well, here's a statement whether he's a goat or not, you know, about whether he has an horn, whether Mr. Ivchenko is a psychotherapist or not, and we, Parliament, are much more interested not in whether he is a goat or not, but whether he is a thief, whether he is a taker, or whether he is a traitor to Ukraine's national interests. Parliament would very much like to know that, at least a healthy part of Parliament. And if these reasonable suspicions of MPs are confirmed, then let Mr. Yvchenko prove to the goat whether or not he has his associates in the zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u6	Yes, Sharov conveys the word to Narazah. To be prepared, Sadowy will pass on the word of Muchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u7	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, on 26 April, there will be 20 years of tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, a tragedy that has been learned not only by the world but also by it. Hundreds of thousands of people of different ages and specialities have been abandoned to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. They were from all our corners, from all the corners of our Ukraine. Then help was needed. Regrettably, many liquidators are gone today, and those who have lost their health have, in fact, not been adequately supported by the State. I have not once addressed the problem of social protection of liquidators. Chernobyl retirees are almost all disabled, suffering from disease that progresses, need constant treatment, and medicines. They do not approach me and all of us, respected colleagues. The question is what? The question is that unfortunately, the main mass of liquidators at the time of liquidation had low wages. And it is these small salaries that are taken into account in the appointment of the pension, but the situation is that officials of all levels, who have often only arrived there for a few hours, have received pensions that are not, at times, ten times more than the main mass of liquidators. Moreover, librarians understand the situation and say that there is a need to level the pension, but they also suggest that the country remembers moral forgiveness, including the reward of the Orders and Medals of our State by those who have halted the Chernobyl disaster. Second problem. From this rostrum I have not spoken once before, it often emerges at the local level and is linked to the determination of the status of benefits for children born after the Chernobyl disaster and who have come, in particular, to our Lugansk area from the zone of exclusion. On this issue, I was approached by Tkachenko Valentina Dmitryevna, Shevchenko Ludmila Mihaylovna, Pavlova Valentina Alexandrovna, and many others. Their claims were that local health authorities were not always able, nor were they always able to establish disability to such a child. Therefore, there is a need for an independent expert commission to be established at the IUDC Scientific and Radiological Centre in Ukraine to address issues related to the social protection of children affected by an accident at CAES. It is therefore considered that the Government of Ukraine, irrespective of the outcome of the elections, should stress not only in the wake of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, but also in order to find new resources to overcome the social consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Otherwise, this will remain a theme that will be remembered on April 26 and forgotten by 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u8	Please, Vladimir Muhin. Get ready for Deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u9	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The destruction of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces undermines Ukraine’s security. On May 26, 2005, General Petruk, the government of Timoshenko, took the initiative to remove the Odessa Institute of Land Forces and set up a semi-civil institution in Lviv, Lviv National University. Note that the decision of the Defence Ministry College of March 26, 2005 approved the proposal of the Department of Personnel Policy and Education, which stated that the Odessa Institute was a basic institution for the preparation of personnel for Ukrainian ground forces, approved by the Defence Minister's order, number 207 from March 31, 2005. However, following the intense pressure on the Department of Personnel Policy and Education, the Ministry of Defence issued a decree of Cabinet of Ministers No. 381. From the point of view of experts, the transfer of a military facility to Lviv will cause considerable damage to the state by about 1 billion people. It will take tens of years to establish a new military facility. The territory of the Institute is already for sale to a commercial structure. In fact, it is the destruction of the most powerful institution in the southern region of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine strongly protested the destruction of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces and demanded that the President of Ukraine, as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, immediately take under his personal control the issue of the liquidation of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Attorney General's Office need to suspend the action of Cabinet Order No. 381. It's a matter of national security and defense to intervene in this matter. Please consider our statement to be an MP to the President, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General and the Head of the Security Service. This facility was completed by outstanding military officers and generals who serve in the territory of the former Soviet Union and in the forty - four other nations of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u10	Lew Glukhowski, please, Stupak gives the word. Get ready for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u11	Lew Glukhovsky, Faction of the People’s Movement. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. This week, February 21, the world’s established “UNESCO” International Day of Home Language was celebrated. While in many countries on this day we have talked mainly about the protection of Natzmainin and their languages, in our country we are forced to speak about the protection of the language of the indigenous autonomous nation. According to the latest census, we have 67.5 percent of the population. However, Russian language has flooded more than 70 percent of the media and 90 percent of the book market. Russian is the language of the vast majority of television and art films. Ukrainian - language residents in the Eastern and Southern regions are not provided with Ukrainian media, books, and textbooks. Thus, Simferopol has only one newspaper, published in the Ukrainian language “Criminal Light. ” In Sevastopol, where Ukrainians make up almost a quarter of the population, there is only one in six ten secondary schools. In the Donetsk region, where two thirds of the population are Ukrainians, out of 700 periodicals, only one newspaper is Ukrainian. The same is true in other Eastern and Southern areas. Even in Western areas, Zitomirski, Winnicki, and Hmelnicki, where more than 90 percent of the population believe in Ukrainian, district, and district languages, Russian is the dominant language everywhere. It should be noted that blocking the rebirth of Ukrainian in the Eastern and Southern regions has been one of the reasons why Separatism in the past presidential campaign poses a direct threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. In recent times, in order to win power in Eastern and Southern regions, such as Crimea and Kharkiv, decisions have been taken again on language referendums, with a view to granting Russian to official and second state status. And to hear calls for the so-called protection of the Russian language. Although there is a fact that Ukraine is not threatened by anything. Neither the disappearance nor the limitations of the scope. All of this is nothing more than political wickedness and demagogism. In fact, the Ukrainian language is unprotected. She's being followed, she's under pressure, her defenders are being persecuted, her experts have no honor, no honor. The Ukrainian people are being created and imposed on a colonial language environment, and their language is being deliberately and methodically trampled. The faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine once again draws the attention of all branches of state authority that the state in the humanitarian sphere must take care primarily of the State’s language, which must be the foundation and national spirituality and culture, the language of international communication, the main consolidating factor and the guarantee of the creation and existence of the Ukrainian political nation. To protect Ukraine and preserve it for future generations, we must protect the first language of its indigenous nation, the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u12	John the Rabbit. Get ready. Kostinuk passes the Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u13	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea decided to hold a referendum on the granting of state status to the Russian language. Such a decision is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly article 10. Such decisions cannot be taken either by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or by the district councils. The D.A. has already challenged this decision. But similar purposes are also among the Kharkiv authorities. So we see an organized attack on everything in Ukrainian that we have. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka believes that such actions will fuel the separatist moods and are aimed at the division of the Ukrainian nation and state. Because ordinary people know that today you have to think more about creating jobs, raising wages and pensions, not speculating with this language map. In Ukraine, Russian is not a threat. But the threat is to the development of Ukrainian as a national language, not just in Crimea. The political forces, namely the Social Democrats and the United States, the Party of Regions, the KPU, the pro-Russian blocs that play the language map before the elections, are working purposefully against the Ukrainian state, and are the fifth column of the Kremlin in Ukraine. They crawl in front of Moscow and Putin to get support from the Russian authorities in the elections. These political powers are largely responsible for the gas and milk crisis in Ukraine. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka address these anti-Ukraine forces as saying to Shevchenk: “Shame yourselves, be men, for you will be in trouble” if you do not work for your people and defend the interests of a foreign state. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush also wants to draw the attention of Parliament's leadership to the issue of the need for consideration by the Supreme Council of Bills. [[on the elimination of parliamentary immunity]] MP's immunity is a straight line to criminalizing power and lawlessness. The inviolability of MPs prevents the authorities from being held accountable for the crimes committed; it disintegrates society into black and white; it breeds great injustices against ordinary citizens. Within a few months, the Act “On the Inviolability of Deputies of Local Councils, 700 petitions have been made by the Prosecutor’s Office to the councils for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of MPs. Agree is given for only a few tens of deputies, and over 600 walk freely today. I have prepared a bill to remove the MP's immunity from the MPs. We voted this bill on January 12th, but the Supreme Council did not support it. And who didn't? Neither the Party of Regions nor the Party of Lithuania, nor the Social Democrats, nor the “One Ukraine” supported the KPU. So I invite you to vote anyway so that we can look at this issue and establish justice. The law must be for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u14	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please, Alexander Tkalenko. Get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. The faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine expresses its indignation at the fact that, following the launch of negotiations within the subcommission of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation, the Russian side continues its targeted campaign of disinformation of the international public on the issues noted, as evidenced recently by an interview by Ambassador from Russia's special missions Vladimir Dorohin to the agency of “RIA-news” in which he questioned Ukraine's fair demands that the activities of the Navy's military courts, military prosecutors and military patrols be discontinued at places of temporary deployment of the Black Sea fleet in the Ukrainian territory. He also claims that Russia is not yet preparing to withdraw its fleet in 2017. This Russian high official deliberately distorts the position of the Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the Interstate Agreement on the Status and Conditions of Circumstances of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine since 97. These documents clearly state that the mandatory condition for the temporary presence of the Black Sea Navy troops in Ukraine is respect for the sovereignty of Ukraine, respect for its Constitution and legislation, such as the Court of Justice Act. One of the laws mentioned in the article states in particular that the judiciary in Ukraine is exercised by the Constitutional Court and by the courts of general jurisdiction, and their jurisdiction extends to all the legal relations that arise in the territory of our State. Since the signing of the basic agreements, almost nine years have passed, during which ex-President Leonid Kuchma and his team have decided on many issues relating to bilateral relations for the benefit of the Russian side. And it was only with the coming to power of President Viktor Yushchenk that Ukraine began to consider this problem as a separate issue of its state policy, to summarize the state of implementation of the basic agreements and to assess the consequences of the long-standing military presence of the Russian contingent in our territory. At the same time, we cannot help but notice that these issues are now the most important factor in the complex impact on state security and the conduct of the Ukrainian-Russian negotiations. Again, it covers aspects of Ukraine's territorial integrity as part of its efforts to establish Russian control over Sevastopol and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The People's Movement is calling on the President of Ukraine and the government to take real steps towards establishing national interests in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to bring about conditions. create the conditions for the exit of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u16	Yes, Paul Sulkowski, please. Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you today how the head of the Interim Investigation Commission for Human Rights Violations was created by a commission, a report to Parliament was issued, a decision was taken to violate these facts, which were established on December 22, 2005, at number 3280-4. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would also like to inform you as chairman today that, in January, I, as head of the Interim Investigation Commission, have been sent by Parliament's decision to the Attorney General and President of Ukraine the materials of the commission of inquiry, the report, the ruling. To this day, however, practically the President has not responded. I think the President himself may not have been informed about this decision taken! When I went to the head of the secretariat of President Rybauk's administration and Vasjunnik's office, they even said they weren't aware of the matter that was taken by Parliament. [[They were here at a meeting in Parliament.]] So I'd like to ask President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk today to immediately make this determination. You are familiar with this decision, this decree recommends to you, as President, that you take immediate action against those violators of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly the head of the Ravenna district administration, Vasil Redonia, who is now in office. Incomprehensiblely, the Attorney General's Office has carried out a review through the Wallin District Attorney's Office of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council for Human Rights Violations of Freedom of Conscience. The Wallin District Attorney's Office has indeed confirmed the violations of Ukrainian and Ukrainian laws on human rights and freedom of conscience by the head of the Rwandese District Administration. Therefore, it is unknown why, Mr. Attorney General, there has been no criminal offence before the Redness of Vasil Mikhailovich under article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the abuse of office and article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the instigation of national hostility. Dear friends, such indecencies are being developed — and at the Irpine Academy. For literally a year, Mr. Kyreyev, head of the Ukrainian administration, working group, has been under stress, closed all bank accounts -- and practically the academy is paralyzed. Similarly today, violent massacres are taking place throughout Ukraine. So I'd like to ask Mr. President that if you allow it and you don't take action, you'll continue to abuse it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u18	Why wait so long? Bunny, please. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u19	Viktor Zaicko, Sevastopol, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We have now heard a beautiful chain of speeches in which both the Crimea Parliament and other regional councils are accused, that in making decisions on the protection of the right to the mother tongue, there are other regional features of separatism. Is it not all of these statements, particularly those related to the imposition of separatism on individuals or other Ukrainian citizens? I would like to begin today by thanking my 277 colleagues for the fact that, for the fourth time in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, we have adopted a decision on the Sevastopol City Act, a law that gives the right to manage and participate in the State's self-government at this stage. Let us say today who in this State is deprived of that right? Citizens deprived of their liberty and in the zone by decision of the court and sevastopol. But if those who have ceased to be deprived of their liberty have taken the decision, what judge has today taken in this State, that the Sebastopols cannot participate in self-government, like the Lions, or as donets and other citizens. This is today a targeted political repression against the city and its inhabitants since Ukraine's independence. I ask my colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not simply by supporting the Law for the fourth time, we are under an obligation to take a decision today. And perhaps if the President does not answer, if there is no guarantee, and the power has changed, then we should probably give the Ukrainian citizens the right to say: do they allow the Sebastopols today to have the right to self-government? Not to address the issues of the fleet, not to address other issues relating to the functions of the State and the walls of that Parliament, but to participate in the construction of the city's life. And I would ask that you and I take such a decision to hold a referendum on the participation of sevastopols in the self-government of the city. Thank you for your attention. And once again, thank you so much to those who have followed, those who are governed by law, not by political intrigue. For the town of Sevastopol and for the sevastopols!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u20	Oleg Tuggnibok. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u21	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable society, Ukrainians, is now at the forefront of the campaign and I have the opportunity to travel throughout Ukraine. And it pains me to see Ukraine being torn apart today, as they are today trying to destroy the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian nation by political speculation. Because we Ukrainians, according to the last population census in Ukraine, are 80%. But unfortunately, as a monoethnic state, as Ukrainians, as a national majority, we are deprived of the ability to protect and ultimately have our national rights. I'd like to continue with the subject of language. As a colleague from Sevastopol said, continue this chain. Not only was February 21st the day of the protection of the native language, but today the Ukrainian language is completely devoid of its protection, today, unfortunately, throughout the entire territory of Ukraine needs to be protected, indeed, by the Ukrainian language, not by the occupying language. And, you know, I'd like to say that we understand why that happened. Today, former President Kravchuk on various boards and posters saves for being in Russian for his second national language. Before that, we still remember very well how Kravchuk caused Crimea to become destitute and now become autonomous and therefore Ukraine has great problems. The next step Kravchuk may take is to give up Crimea in general to another state, such as Russia. Unfortunately, Mr. Levka, I would like to appeal to you, Mr. Lewk Glukhowski. I have great respect and respect for you. You've done a very nice report. And you have said well about political wickedness and demagogism, but please give me, along with you in “Our Ukraine” there are as many as four people who are the authors of the law on the second state language of Russian. How, then, can we understand this situation? How, then, can it be understood that there are as many as 14 bills on Russian’s second national language? I understand your position, but for what is it wrong, and why should we talk about it in general? Why were the separatists, who are now inspiring, not being punished, initiate these referendums on Crimea and other structures on the destruction of the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian language? And you know, the most hurtful society, if we're talking about language? As long as we say that it is our own word, and if we do not protect it, and if we do not really put this language into life, unfortunately, I have the feeling that after a few years this language can remain only for the words. Ukrainians, let us defend ourselves, let us defend our nation, because we are just now on the verge of losing our independence and our spiritual independence, losing our nation and our statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u22	Please, Shershun Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, February 23, the National Program to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster was presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 2010. Despite all efforts to prove its extraordinary significance and to vote on the adoption of the bill, we have not been able to obtain the necessary number of votes. The same fate has met with an equally important project of the National Agricultural Production Programme in the area that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, 2005-2015. It seems that Chernobyl’s problems can be solved for no one. This is evident from the situation today in parliament and government. In our view, the laws of Ukraine and government programmes are almost not being implemented to address specific issues, such as the Ukrainian Law on the Placing of Certain Populations in Volinsk, Equinox Areas to the Zone of Guaranteeed Voluntary Displacement, which obliges the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to anticipate expenditure on socio-economic development of population data, including Galusia and Prilisne, is the Volinsk Region. The Shahs, the Lakes, the Reds are the Plains. However, the program is neither considered nor supported by funding. In the Ministry, I'd say a short-term administrative reform, to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, which has led to the elimination of self-governments to protect the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at the local level, which has had a very negative impact on ensuring the proper level of social protection of citizens. There is no comprehensive approach; there are only distinctions, systemsless attempts to keep this situation under control. In the meantime, it is important to note that social protection programmes are not very rhythmically financed from the State Budget, especially with regard to the cost of financial assistance and the provision of food for benefits. Last Sunday, I met the voters of the village of Załąży Dubrovicki district. In this rural council, there is only one debt of over 100,000. People are asking why the President's promises and the government are not being fulfilled. Considering that we are standing at the threshold of the 20th anniversary of the terrible Chernobyl disaster, I ask you, dear colleagues, to return to the project of the National Program to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in March of this year and to accept it. This will give hope and hope for a better life and faith in our nation to millions of citizens of the Chernobyl population, as well as Ukraine's ability to be represented with dignity at an international conference dedicated to the anniversary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u24	Thank you. I think it would be right if we went back to considering these issues on Tuesday, March 14 or 15. Yes, dear fellows, there's another one, there's going to be a replica. There is a statement by John Boko of dissatisfaction with the MP’s request. Please, out of the way. John Boko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, on January 18th, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a question at the National Museum of Taras Shevchenko. The answer came from Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko. Regrettably, this answer is not clear as to the position of the government regarding the situation that has arisen. And the situation is that the museum doesn't actually work, it simulates some kind of action, but it's a work simulation, and it doesn't have a job, because there's no exposure. And there's no exposure because the old is hopelessly outdated, and for the development of a new facility that's considered scientific, it just doesn't have scientific powers. There are quarrels, people who are persecuted, who think differently than the director appointed by the new Minister of Culture. And to this director of his time, he was expressing distrust among the groups. And so the situation went into a dead end. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has repeatedly failed to respond to my speeches in this room. And it is clear that Mr. Lichov, as a person completely random in the role of the Minister of Culture and Tourism, is obviously “heating” himself simply a place to become director of this museum after he has left the Ministry. Maybe some other way of thinking about it, but the fact remains that the situation is tense, you spend huge budget costs on what I'm saying is that the museum doesn't work and pensions are paid, which are equal to the wages of the minister and so on. That is, the solution to this problem does not come from the government. That's why I'm asking Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov of Ukraine with a repeat parliamentary request, and I'm asking him to consider the matter on a daily basis, to conduct a financial and economic audit of the budget spending that the Ministry of Culture allocates to this museum. And finally, the main question is: the museum has to work. We can no longer rely on the fact that repairs are not completed there. Repair complete. But people don't have jobs, and people go to work just to spot themselves, or to hold some congregations where chopsticks don't have jobs, and it's a huge disrespect for our national genius. And I think the need to pass on to the National Museum of Shevchenka, the National Academy of Science, is ripe, as it was before. Because this museum doesn't have any scientists, it just doesn't have one, it doesn't have one. And the museum has scientific status. This question needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u26	Please, one minute, Deaf Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u27	Yes, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As a result, in my speech, the national MP, Oleg Tuggnibok, mentioned my last name. I'm very surprised. Because it sounded so much like I was almost out of the drafters of a bill that discriminated against the Ukrainian language. I strongly object to this. This is obviously a bad study by Oleg Tuggnibok of the bill that they're handing out to the people's deputies, and he must have confused my last name with the name of another MP. I want to say that our faction “Our Ukraine”, the interfractional union, is such an interfractional union that it is precisely protecting Ukrainian language and national interests. And it stands for the program that our President Victor Yushchenko is doing. This is a program to protect the Ukrainian people, protect the Ukrainian language, and protect the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u28	Thank you. No, no, I'll make it clear. He didn't blame you for being the author. He said that among the forces you represent are the drafters. Well, you can figure it out at Dragnibok's. I won't. Dear colleagues, they exchanged lines. Repeat, repeat. I repeat, you called your last name, he answered you. It's all under the law. You can tell him yourself. Dear colleagues, personally Deaf, you exchanged lines. Dear colleagues, considering that, even in breach of the Rules, you can see in which beautiful pope one of the dignitaries has asked questions, I will announce them in order to exclude them. To the Attorney-General, to the Secretary-General of the Security Council, the Head of the State Property Fund, Yuri Carmazin, to prevent the threat of national security in Ukraine in the economic sphere, which was caused by the substantial reduction of the domestic gross product by the destruction of strategic textile enterprises, the use of measures to bring officials to criminal responsibility of the State Property Fund and the ZAT “Volinski Silk Combined” on the basis of illegal privatization, fraud and bankruptcy of the VAT “Lutské silky combination”, and the WAT Herson cotton combination. And Yuri Karmazin to the Attorney-General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Montenegrin District Government for the obstruction of the arbitrary, illegal privatization of the Kalinovské market in Chernovec, the embezzlement of his collective property, the violation of constitutional rights, members of the labour force of the market for entrepreneurial activities, work, ownership and land of interest of local authorities and local self-government in profit from the market. Ten seconds, please, Pull Side. Name your names.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u29	Respectable Society! Mr. Leukko! I'd like to speak to Mr. Leuk Gluhowski. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All - Ukrainian Union. Mr. Levko, on the contrary, I said that I respect you and respect you, you are simply now a collaborator of “Our Ukraine” and in the lists of pre-election “Our Ukraine” there are four people who are the authors of the bills, which in one way or another are caused to introduce the status of the second state language in Ukraine – Russian, in particular, this is Poroshenko, 33 issue; this is King 54 issue; this is Czernowsky 29 issue and this is Johnov is the head of the Sevastopol City Administration. Therefore, please do not be misled. If "Our Ukraine" is in English, you don't have to have people speaking against the Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u30	But you can see exactly how Oleg remembered the numbers that were underneath them. Dear colleagues! Be careful, I'd like your consent. Yesterday, we passed the Law on Changes to the State Budget in the area of Krivoristal. But one point has to be made. The whole point of what we've written down there is the cost of privatization. But the funds received from the privatization for 2005 are already being channelled to the general budget for 2006. Therefore, it will have to be clarified that from the remaining funds of the State Budget General Fund, which have been received from privatization funds. So it's the same thing, it's only written more literately to make sure that the Ministry of Finance has a basis for paying these costs. If there's no objection, we'll have the Legal Authority write down, when preparing the Law for signature, the funds left over from privatization. Understand? Okay, thanks. Costs were listed: from 2005 to 2006, they were transferred to the general fund, and therefore to the general fund of the State Budget, which was funded from privatization in 2005. Yes, dear fellows, we begin our work. A report from the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the pressure on the Ukrainian national deputies by the State authorities is being heeded. Head of the commission of inquiry, Sklar Vladimir Borisovich. Please, seven minutes and three minutes if you have any questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the interim High Council investigation commission on the investigation of pressure on people's deputies by public authorities was established in June 2004 for a period of six months. The reasons for its creation were repeated statements by the people's deputies of numerous political, economic, administrative and forceful pressures on parliamentarians, which expressed an independent position when discussing and making important public decisions. Investigating cases of pressure detection, taking measures to prevent attempts to prosecute members of the people, making the facts public became the main task of the commission. Between June and October 2004, the Commission received statements from the National Deputies: Vasily Gavriluk, Petr Poshenko, Sergei Kiroyanz, Leonid Czernovetský, Sergey Bickov, Oleg Belous, Vladimir Sivkovic, Julia Timoshenko, Mikhail Volínec, Alexei, the Ministry of Finance, had reason to pay these costs. If there's no objection, we'll have the Legal Authority write down, when preparing the Law for signature, the funds left over from privatization. Understand? Okay, thanks. Costs were listed: from 2005 to 2006, they were transferred to the general fund, and therefore to the general fund of the State Budget, which was funded from privatization in 2005. Yes, dear fellows, we begin our work. A report from the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the pressure on the Ukrainian national deputies by the State authorities is being heeded. Head of the commission of inquiry, Sklar Vladimir Borisovich. Please, seven minutes and three minutes if you have any questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the interim High Council investigation commission on the investigation of pressure on people's deputies by public authorities was established in June 2004 for a period of six months. The reasons for its creation were repeated statements by the people's deputies of numerous political, economic, administrative and forceful pressures on parliamentarians, which expressed an independent position when discussing and making important public decisions. Investigating cases of pressure detection, taking measures to prevent attempts to prosecute members of the people, making the facts public became the main task of the commission. Between June and October 2004, the Commission received statements from members of the people: Vasily Gavriluk, Petr Poshenko, Sergei Kiroyanz, Leonid Chernovetski, Sergei Bychkov, Oleg Belous, Vladimir Sivkovic, Julia Timoshenko, Mikhail Volynec, Alexei Kozachenko. All applications were considered at meetings of the Commission in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation in force. Investigations have been conducted on each case. In the course of the investigation, 27 witnesses were interviewed by the Commission and explanations were heard from officials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region, the Shevchenkov Procurator's Office of the City of Kiev, the Procurator's Office of the City of Kremenchouga. 18 visits were made to the checkpoints of the facts set out in the statements made by the people's deputies. It is noted that the 48 requests to the public authorities, local self-government of institutions and organizations have been abandoned. Most cases of pressure on members of the public have shown that there is a hidden nature that is difficult to prove by common legal instruments. The main method of pressure was the use of telephone law, in which the organizer of pressure remained known to everyone except the judiciary. The simplest way of simplifying the people's MP was to encourage his or her associated criminal enterprise officials to carry out extracurricular checks, unwarranted removal of financial documents. Such orders have been investigated for many years, allowing people to be held accountable. Twenty-three facts were investigated during the Commission's work. In most cases, there has been a direct violation of articles 62, 64 of the Ukrainian Constitution, articles 4, 5 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, of the law relating to the status of the Ukrainian people's representative. The establishment and work of the Commission had already helped to resolve the situations set out in the statement in the legal field. A clear demonstration of pressure was the breakup of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council of the lease agreement with People's Deputy Deputy Sergei Bychkov, rather than the artificially creating obstacles to his exercise of his parliamentary powers in the constituency. In particular, Ukraine's legislation provides that local executives or local authorities are obliged to provide a separate office space to the national deputy. Criminal proceedings against the Ukrainian People's Deputy Vasili Gavriluk were initiated on the basis of intentional motives. This was so obvious that the investigator for the particularly important cases of the prosecution of the town of Kremenchouga Ivan Lanevic has repeatedly refused to institute criminal proceedings. The Assistant People's Deputy Vassili Gavriluka Petr Olenchenko was released twice by a court decision as an unwarranted detainee. During the investigation, articles 106, 115, 120 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure were severely violated. The case is currently pending, and the case is not referred to the courts. The criminal case, made with white thread, against the national deputy, has been drifting from the prosecutor's office to the prosecutor's office for two years: Kremenchugska, Poltavska Procurator's Office, to the Shevchenkov city of Kiev. Doesn't look like there's anyone in the DA's office who wants to take responsibility for the uniform's honor. According to the facts set out in the statements made by Czernovecki, Belous, Gavriluka, Kozachenko, Volonca, the law enforcement authorities are delaying the examination of criminal cases. Part of the criminal cases against Julia Timoshenko are closed by the court as illegal. Thus, from 2002 to 2004, various forms of pressure were systematically and sufficiently used by the public authorities through relatives, connected individuals, threats to life, property, neglect of authority. The aim of such actions was to induce the people's deputies to adopt a favourable political position and to support the necessary initiatives. All of this is far from the principles of democracy. I don't think it would be an exaggeration to say that the Supreme Council was trying to turn into a pocket office. The fact that we have, in the end, avoided such a scenario, has been a great credit to the deputies who have demonstrated principles that have resisted the harsh pressure of power. It should be noted that the very essence and the system of law enforcement in the country has in recent years been formed precisely as a tool of pressure against the unfavourable authorities. Both the people's deputies and the individual citizens. The protection of civil rights and freedoms was a secondary function. The transformation of this system into a democratic development must become one of the main tasks of government. Dear colleagues, please support the information, the draft order on the report of the interim commission of inquiry to investigate the pressure on the people's deputies. You have been provided with an expanded amount of information on 33 sheets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this information, by the way, is the answer to those calls that would eliminate all and all the intrusive things. Yeah, any questions? Please sign up. Please, Nicholas Komar, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u34	Please tell me, are the pressure on the Deputy of the Drought considered to be that there are no human beings, or law enforcement officers, who are not defined, who enter the room where it resides, where there are endless attacks on it? Does this committee feel pressured, or is the matter being considered? The last attack was on January 21, and it is unknown that no one attacked or attacked or punished for it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u35	A statement from Tatiana Sushi should have been made in order to address the issue. No such statement was made. The facts that have not been submitted to the commission cannot be investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u36	Orzhachovsky Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u37	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Your Honor, from the list of national MPs who have turned to your commission, I understand that most of them are today's pro-government deputies, except there seems to be Sevkovic and so on. Tell me, how is work today for your committee? And secondly, there are cases where MPs didn't just go to your commission, prosthetics on the spot weren't properly invested in their districts, they weren't providing jobs, they were refusing to go to the radio, they were TV, they were publishing in newspapers, and so on. As you think of it, the analysis of law enforcement was not addressed as a standing commission that would have to analyse both the legislative base and all those positions regarding the activities of executive authorities, when some officials even negatively appreciate not only Parliament but also Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u38	In my information, I have stopped and my opinion on this issue has been expressed by the Commission. With regard to the “powerful” MPs, the “unconquered” commission did not set a goal. For the Commission, all deputies are deputies and have investigated the facts brought before the Commission. It is therefore difficult for me to say whether or not a political element is used here. There's a statement by the deputy, it's to be investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u39	Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u41	Terra's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u42	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Dear reporter, what's your opinion on the next one? So you're talking about the facts of the pressure on the MPs, you call their last name and you're talking motivatedly, everything's right. But it's still going on, and it's been going on a long time, and it hasn't started yet because of this convening, a meaningful campaign for parliament. So the situation is that the President, as a guarantor of the nation, should stand outside and not be, let's say, with the government or with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because he's standing over it. But the guarantor of the nation, whether Kuchma or today's president, chooses that the government is good, but that the campaign is meaningful, that parliament is an enemy. What's more, let's say the media is running a campaign like this, you're a government like you're appreciating the government's work, the president's work, and so on. So the country is strong when power is one, when there is no nagging on each other and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u43	I don't understand the question, to be honest. To say that the Commission has spoken on the issue, we believe that the pressure today not only on the people's deputies, but also on the establishment of the commission itself, has contributed to the end. I wish to say that the Commission has not only contributed to the prevention of such facts, but we still have much to do in this regard. Because not all of them today are enough, look, on request, under the authority of the commission, we have made some 43 appeals to the authorities, of which only half have been answered. So this disease is, it's going to take a long time to treat it, and I think we're going to do it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u44	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! We need to make a decision on hearing the report, you have Project 8644. I am voting on the adoption of the Resolution on the Report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the Investigation of the Facts of the Pressure on the National Deputies of Ukraine by the State Authorities. Registration number 8644. Take a report to the well-known and stop the work of the commission. Vote. [[11:30:48]] For-152. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 4, Communists – 47, Block of Timoshenko – 0, People's Party – 22, “Our Ukraine” – 34, Socialists – 15, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 0, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 7, “Rebirth” – 4, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, “Reforms and Orders” – 13, non-fractional – 3. I don't know what it is. Weakly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u45	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make a procedural statement. Considering that not all the MPs and factions were really present in listening to this report, they were unable to express their position by voting. So I think it's more appropriate to postpone the vote from the reports of the interim commission of inquiry to the next plenary week, when the corresponding number of national deputies will be higher. And in the meantime, they will be able to read with an extended report from the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u46	To those who have not voted, I give no word. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, Jurya Carmazina. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm going to ask you to do it again by showing the factions who are voting right now, because some factions are not even present in the room today. I'd like us to show factions and now there's going to be elections, there's going to be, and let people see who they're choosing, or those millionaires and billionaires that are never here in the hall, let's call it a name. So I'd like to ask you to put it again now, to vote. And please personally, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, we don't know where he is today, but please, this is the commission that was responsible for the way the MPs are acting. And by no means do they follow, Adam Ivanovich. And now that you've heard Sklar say that half of this committee's appeal to ensure that they exercise the rights of deputies in order to protect the right of voters is simply not answered, we need to hear who's responsible, specifically from the government, specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u48	Yeah, I'll bet again. Who is responsible for returning to the vote of this decree? Please mobilize. This applies to us, dear fellows, let's at least stand down. [[11:33:51]] For 216 Why won't you vote? Please, Terrence microphone. Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. We have absolutely no claim to report or to the work of the commission. But yesterday we stated that until the issue of depriving members of the local level of immunity is resolved, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc will not vote. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u50	Right, right. Yes, dear colleagues, can we do without the Timoshenko Block? Let's try it. Get ready, please. Ready? I am voting on the adoption of the Resolution on the Report of the Interim Investigative Commission on Investigating the Facts of the Pressure on the People's Deputies of Ukraine by the State Authorities. Registration No. of the draft regulation 8644. Please vote. Come back. [[11:35:20.]] For 279 We're back. I'm voting on the adoption of the Order as a whole. Please vote. Block Timoshenko, vote, for you see, and you are being costed. [[11:35:40]] For 251 It's been decided. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 44, Communists – 54, Block of Timoshenko – 0, National Party – 19, “Our Ukraine” – 36, Socialists – 20, “National Block of Lithuania” – 17, Social Democrats – 15, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, Revival – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 8, “Reforms and Orders” – 13, non-fractional – 2. [[United]] Thank you, Your Honor. He's listening to the report of the interim commission of inquiry into the causes of the crisis in the aviation of Ukraine. Reported the Head of the Commission, Lovín Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked 15 minutes to give ten, so I will try to be shorter and leave the formal side of the matter. I just want to say that the logistics provided by the Supreme Council was in the form of a single vehicle. During the course of its work, the Commission addressed issues of the state and development of both civil and military aviation and of other agencies. Periodically, interim reports and conclusions were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for processing. For each position, I am ready to give examples. But given the time constraints, I think if I answer the questions. More detailed information can be found in the interim reports and findings of the Commission. To date, the overall state of aviation of the country can be described as positive or positive. Civil aviation. The governance structure has been restructured, which to date is fully in line with European standards, as noted by the verifications. Military aviation. Some stability in flight training has been achieved as a lack of aging and a lack of prospects for replacement. Scientific aviation and special-purpose aviation. There have been positive developments and developments in its development. The legislative framework towards the Europeanization of civil aviation and flight management has been significantly improved. In particular, I wish to note the shortcomings in the conduct, conversion and conversion of military airfields. Regrettably, military agencies, when the airport is excluded from their military network, are not concerned about the prospects for its continued use, but are acting as the army normally does when it retreats. I mean, destruction of objects, bridges and airfields. I'll stop at the airport. When leaving the airport, the army virtually destroys all infrastructure, indecisives communication, disrupts concrete plates, fences. I mean, it takes away or just destroys anything that can represent some kind of value. As a rule, air assets removed from the airfield and surrendered to warehouses, rehabilitation and further use are not to be used. As a result, facilities lose their continued attractiveness to use, and the State loses many millions of bracelets. As an example, I would like to refer to the airport of the former Chernigow Higher Aviation School of Airmen. Although the airport is planned to use civil aviation as the main training airport, all, even cut metal outposts, whose value in the form of scrap metal is much lower than the cost of metal scrapping and transporting the metal scrap. It is also a matter of concern to the unwarranted, unwarranted utilization of aviation technology. And I would like to focus separately on the situation at Borispol Airport. This is our country's main air gate. This question has become the most acute issue right now. I'll try to explain more. There are several areas on the issue of Borispol Airport that need to be considered separately. This is Japan's credit, the conflict between Borispol Airport and Aeroswitt, the economic activity of Borispol Airport. There are no problems with the Japanese loan. In the construction of the Aeroswitt terminal, solutions to the conflict have been identified, and these areas are real, except for the sale of airport land, which is contrary to legislation. Many of you have recently noticed increased media activity with regard to Borispol Airport and, as a result, meetings and demonstrations by airport staff around the Presidential Secretariat organized by the airport management. What is it? The answer to this question is that our commission has taken an interest in the daily business activities of the airport and has found a large number of, mildly speaking, shortcomings and violations of its financial and economic activities. I'll get some of them. Borispol Airport has an income of 350-400 million bracelets per year. Where do these funds go? The management of Borispol Airport, headed by Mr. Shiskov, Director-General, consists of persons who have their own business or control their business. Even surface inspections have shown that purchases of equipment, property is often made by firms controlled by these persons at excessive prices. Tenders for purchase are usually fictitiously won by the same companies. When money is spent, Ukrainian legislation is violated, and the work of the competition commission is formal. The winner is predetermined. Thus, in the construction of the gallery, the winner was identified by a company that offered the most expensive conditions of all those who claimed to be. The difference between the winner and the next company was about two million bracelets. The next situation is the acquisition of a laboratory complex. Two and a half years ago, a three-storey building in Borispol airport was transferred just over a million grivens. Two years after the renovation, far from the European level, the building was purchased by Borispol Airport with a value of more than 32 million people. Grieve. The total difference is more than $30 million, a square metre of more than $5,000. This is happening in Borispol. It's about land. At a time when the issue of the return of land to Aeroworld is being raised, which, of course, must be done in accordance with the law, an additional transfer of an enormous amount of land is being made with the right of further redemption. The most promising sites are transferred. For example, if we take the general development plan of Borispol Airport, which provides for the construction of a third lane and a large terminal, we have found that the land under the prospect of construction has already been transferred to commercial structures. That is, a few years from now, we will face a more serious problem than the present airline Airworld. The company to which this land is transferred and transferred is directly or indirectly relevant to the management of the airport. Well, here's the thing. Since the first January of this year, Borispol airport has been legally deprived of its independence, i.e. the first step of its shadowy privatisation has actually taken place. What happened? Since the first zero of the first year of 2006, a contract has been entered into between Borispol Airport and a commercial firm called the Legal Commercial Agency. Under this contract, most of the airport capacity is transferred to the agency. What does this agency imagine? It is a society with limited liability, consisting of several natural persons who have nothing to do with aviation other than related and friendly relations with the Charter Fund 375 bracelets. Not thousands, just 375 bracelets. Mr. Shishkov, who is currently the director of Borispol Airport, became one of the founders of the airport several years ago. Then, in 2003, the founders of this company are Kinakh Marina Vladimirovna and Shishkov Svetlana Lvivna, based on 50 by 50, and before the very transfer of Borispol to the management of this company, some Simaków, Servetnikov and Kovalko Natalia Nikolayevna, who are close to the former co-founders and organizers of this company, are the founders. The terms of the contract for Borispol Airport are simply cable. Repairs are carried out at the airport, and property management charges amount to 25 per cent of the income earned by the firm from the use of the airport's assets. Note that 25 per cent, not even on income, but on income, a firm with a chartered fund of 375 bracelets, can actually get some 100 million bracelets per year from the airport. Thus, in the absence of funds, the airport has to spend additional resources from its budget. On my initiative, a Gosavia Service commission was established to investigate the above-mentioned and other violations at Borispol Airport. From the very beginning of the work of the commission, which was composed of representatives of our commission, there was resistance from the airport administration. The requested documents were not submitted or submitted in a very succinct manner, and after the Commission had come up with some of the facts that I had mentioned above, access to the airport had been completely discontinued. Some members of the commission were simply expelled from the airport. Personally, I began to receive threats with a clear intention of endangering my health and that of my family. The director of the airport, Mr. Shisko, on every occasion, threatened me with all kinds of punishments, and as a supporter of his, he was the name Anatolia Kinaha, who is the leader of the party that nominated Shishkov as a candidate for the People's Deputies. Indeed, the Commission has not been able to carry out the task, its work has been suspended and another commission has instead been established, which, according to information available, has been tasked with blocking the development of the situation with a view to concealing information concerning high-level public figures and politicians of our State with further action.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u52	One minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u53	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u54	Don't trade because you won't get anything. Sergey Ivanovich, don't run the session! Sit here, you'll give.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u55	In other words, a group of persons, in order to satisfy their own desires, to prevent the disclosure of investigations into the frauds committed, are preparing positions for the actual destruction of the country's civil aviation. This position is not justified by any international law, is contrary to existing Ukrainian legislation, is not supported by any economic calculations or is not reflected in the current State budget of Ukraine. So you can't do that in any way. I will explain the reason for the unexpected demonstrations and rallies at Borispol Airport. This is nothing less than an attempt to distract and divert public attention from actual airport fraud to other problems. This is a distinctive cleavage, a smoke screen for high-ranking combines and machinators acting in principle: the tooth became sick, swallowed the pill and forgot about the tooth, so the stomach collapsed. I have spoken the name of Shishkov several times as a candidate for the People's Deputies, and I have spoken the name of the Chinese, whose name I think there is no need. I do not politicize the situation or aim to do so. It is just that the name of Kinakh as an instrument of retaliation is constantly invoked by the director of Shishkov Airport when the slightest threat to its illegal activities arises. And when it comes to the policies and other political forces involved here, I need another report to do so, but now I have no opportunity. In conclusion, I would like to read out the findings of the Power Service Commission, which in fact did not allow the verification to be fully carried out. But even what the Commission had done enabled it to draw the following conclusions. The lack of financial, economic and economic activities generally demonstrates the inability of the management of Borispol State International Airport to organize a Japanese credit implementation programme in a qualitative manner. Mr. Šishkov, Director of Borispol Airport, replaces the public interests with his private interests, reflecting the overall strategy of the enterprise. Individual managers are unable to carry out the tasks assigned to the airport because of poor professional and special training. The policy pursued by airport management is contrary to State policy. Unfortunately, for the objective, subjective reasons outlined, we have not been able to address the issue of Borispol airport problems until the end, so we propose planning for further work on your part. In any event, part of the report on matters at Borispol Airport is considered to be our parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine, Procurator General of Ukraine, President of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the State Tax Administration. Well, I'd like to ask the members of the commission to monitor the progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u56	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u57	Either way, the commission's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u58	Turn off the microphone. Write down the question if there is. Yes, please, three minutes, please. Verni Dubov Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u59	Vernidubov, “Regions of Ukraine”. Tell me, you've often called the name of Kinach. Have we tried to explain whether Anatoly Kinakh really has an impact on the situation there, in fact? And whether it promotes illegal acts. He'll meet with Keenah or invite him in, and interview him at a meeting of the commission. Have such attempts been made? And how did China behave in this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u60	The question is purely prosecutorial: to be questioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u61	So we have no right to question. I've tried contacting Keenah several times. So unfortunately, when I contacted him after all, he gave me a meeting time that was unacceptable to us. That's how it worked. So, with regard to the name of Kinah, Mr. Shishkov, the director of the airport, who, so to speak, at each corner, says that he is his friend, his support, and all the actions he carries out with his consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u62	Anatoly Orzhachowski
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u63	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, we have heard of irresponsibility in the field of aviation. The characters of the day have also become known to the Ukrainian people, and I have questions of this kind to you. You are well aware of the unsatisfying activity of the compound property of the Hersonian district communities at Hersson Airport. What's the problem? What should be done to the State, to the local authorities, or to the Herson Airport was systematically operated. Because that's not clear, the South is a rest area, and the Air Service is a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u64	To date, there has been a restructuring of Harrison Airport, which has remained, in fact, to complete quite a bit. I think and do everything I can to get Harrison to work before the elections. As promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u65	Anatoly Ivanovich, 2006?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u66	2006, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u67	Because there can be a lot more choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u68	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u69	Sergey Shevchuk, please. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u70	Yuri Karmazin, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you have certainly done a great job, but in my opinion, your report will not be entirely objective unless you have said other things. About who and how the air movement is given, to whom all routes are dedicated today over Ukraine, for which bribes and why it is not stopped now. That's the first question. The second question. I've seen this town's district council of Borispolska produce 3 acres, thousands of dollars a year for rent. Why isn't the prosecution working? Where do we have this body, the Attorney General's Office? How does she react? I'd like to hear your answer, because everyone's supposed to be sitting there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u71	Yuri Anatolyevich, thank you for asking. Unfortunately, I said that I only had 10 minutes, although I asked for at least 15 minutes, to some extent I had this situation reflected in the report, I would be able to take a look. With regard to the attempt to break up the country's aviation and the fact that you are now talking about tearing down the Aerolouch into small pieces, there is a tendency to break up the aircraft into two structures: economic and one that will be responsible for flight safety without economic justification. To make the economy more manageable and less controlled, gently speaking. That's why I fully agree with you that this is an attempt and I confirm it. With regard to the lands distributed by the Borispol Paradise, I have already noted this situation, in fact, more than 300 hectares of land have been distributed around the airport to date, which are of value for airport development prospects. Why does it do so, and why is the prosecutor's office and the authorities concerned who have to think about the prospects, all I have to do is open my hands. I was forced to speak today to draw attention to and, so to speak, to call the bell that the prospects of Borispol Airport in such management are very dire. We can just lose the airport and it will be an accessory to one of the global or globalized commercial structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Ivanovich. We need to take a decision on the Interim Investigations Commission report. It's in your hands. Registration number 5195. Mother, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u73	I don't understand what you're saying. On many issues, when it came to Japanese credit, I was present at these meetings, and I want to say that Shishkov and Kinakh were the authors of those who supported and achieved that the Japanese loan came into existence. So how do they not want to do it now? The other one. There's been a breakup at the airport. That's right. ran away, broke into pieces? How is it that China was at the right time opposed to the “Aerosworld” appearing there on the grounds of this airport? And the second. I asked the question that the budget should only be given to the state structure. And today, I understand there's a fight for the loan that Ukraine received today. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u74	Let's do it another way. Sign up, or we'll be endless. Why don't you sign up for a draft ruling, and we'll take five minutes, one minute. Yes, please, Orzhachowski. Terrence will hand Sasu over.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u75	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, I, after hearing the information of the commission's head today, was impressed by the situation in the aviation system. I think the citizens, when they hear all this, will realize that there is no great prospect for the Ukrainian people on the plane. So it's not clear to us where all the Japanese loans went, which Parliament took so much care of and voted in its own time. When it becomes clear who is behind all these affairs, one thing is to expect and ask the law enforcement authorities to immediately join the study of the situation that took place at Borispol Airport and in general in the aviation system and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u76	Victor Taran, Carmazin next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u77	Surrender the word to Sasu and he will say it very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u78	Sergei Sas, please. I think you might have said the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u79	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Deputy Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Unfortunately, we have not heard the answer to the question from the Commission's report, which is the prospect of developing Borispol Airport. The issue of the dispute between the Borispol State Airport and the famous Aeroworld is resolved. So I would like to add that the faction will not take part in the vote because of the faction's many numerical demands and the day-to-day issue of the integrity of the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u80	Your colleagues on the right say no more speculation. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs. I believe that the decision should reflect and state that the situation in aviation and the airport situation are threatening Ukraine's national security. First. The other one. I believe that it should be written: “Invest the Attorney General’s Office to report to the next plenary meeting on the situation that has arisen with each airport, including those in the Ministry of Defence”. They're all being destroyed, even the plates are being shipped out. And this barbaric situation, the barbaric attitude, tells us that the Ministry of Transport is unable to master the situation, because it is governed by every “kidder-surprises” that come to power without skill, without preparation. No transparency, no professionalism, and no patriotism. So I demand that the Henprocurator's report on this issue be included as well as the government's report on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u82	Vitaly, Coloniari is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u83	Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to clarify some points. First. Regrettably, there was no statement in the presentation or in the report to which the public administration now belongs? In due course, it was subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is indeed managed by the Ministry of Transport. And this uncertainty, it is one of the main reasons for today's hearings on the commission of inquiry. Keep going. Regrettably, it was not said that the group was divided today that it did not support Shishkov. And that this group just demanding access to the President to tell him what was going on at the airport, he was looking after the President's administration. And Shishkov really didn't negotiate with China about this Japanese loan. And it was the people who organized the tile. That's why I'm answering this question, and so is Kinach's position. Because the Japanese side asked the question, let's control hard how this is going to be used, the money of our loan. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u84	Please, Alexander Colonyari. It's been a while since he's been heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u85	Colonyari, the city of Mariupol, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, there were many questions to Lvivín. I give him my word, let him answer them. Please turn on the lioness, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u86	I wanted to hear from you. Well, please, Leovin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u87	Thank you. I would like to emphasize once again that this is not a Japanese loan to date. This is simply an attempt to speculate on those who have created problems around Borispol Airport and who are now using a wide range of Japanese credit and conflict with Aeroswitt to continue the frauds that exist at Borispol Airport. As far as the hold is concerned. The air service is itself. the organization of the central executive body and makes its own decisions. The Ministry of Transport has a certain relationship under the Transport Act, but, so to speak, is not central. I would like to emphasize once again that the demonstration is also around the President's administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u88	Yes, dear fellows, they exchanged. I'm totally in solidarity with those of you who talk about airports. This was recently in Ternopolis. One of the best airports that could take super heavy planes. Sold for what? For the construction of a foreign enterprise. It's not for use, it's for construction. I say: “All right, if the company builds its own structure on that base, cushions, let it build, then the company is demolished, the airport will be later. If that's not the case. It's in Ternopolis. Ternopol said they sold the airport for 33 million or more. Thank God. If so, it is very good. I'm voting on the adoption of the Regulation on Information for the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine investigating the causes of the crisis in the aviation of Ukraine, registration number 5195. [[12:05:13]] For-188. The factions, please. “Regions” – 45, Communists – 34, Block Timoshenko – 0, People's Party – 28, “Our Ukraine” – 16, Socialists – 15, “People's Block Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, “Rebirth” – 8, People's Movement – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, “Reforms and Orders” – 1, “Afterfraction – 2. [[United]] Who's in charge of coming back? [[12:06:02]] For-163 Not accepted. Reports are received from the Temporary Special Commission on Election Law Monitoring. Please, the co-chair of the Temporary Special Commission of Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich. And then we'll consult about the break. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague created by the Supreme Council’s decree of February 14, this year, the Temporary Special Commission began its work. Since there was very little time left before the election, and the commission was only created, we got the verdict early this week, we're going to focus first on questions. Which need immediate response, settlement, perhaps through adjustments to electoral legislation, and secondly, to generalise problematic issues in the practice of applying this legislation in order to prepare certain proposals that could be used in preparation for the next election. This will be done by the next composition of the Supreme Council. All the state institutions named in the Supreme Council’s decree — the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Security Service, the State Department, the public organizations — have actively joined the commission, which unfortunately cannot be said of some of our colleagues who received a commission from the Supreme Council. At the first meeting, an organizational session, the commission noted, above all, that the Supreme Council, having accepted the Central Electoral Commission’s proposal to amend the Electoral Law, had lifted the focus on many issues. But some problems have also been identified that require further study and perhaps some decision - making. This is, in particular, the creation of conditions for the exercise of electoral rights by Ukrainian citizens who are abroad. Complaints came from Transnistria, where there were five or even eight polling stations in previous elections, and now, according to official information, only one and only one were created in Chisinau. A previous study of this problem revealed some strange things. For example, five polling stations were created in Germany, the United States, the Russian Federation, four in Poland. That's not clear. That's why we're talking about this issue at the next meeting of the Supreme Council. Well, that's a problem at all. If, according to reports, we have 5 to 7 million people seeking earnings abroad, it is a very serious and urgent problem to ensure that they are able to implement their electoral rights. That's the second question. Participation in the voting of members of electoral committees, representatives of electoral bodies, law enforcement officials related to the provisions of the Law on the Arrangement for the Issue of Temporary Certificates of Right to Vote outside the residence. The election committee of Ukraine calls the number of such citizens from half a million to 1 million citizens who because the ballots are very long now, it will require work, we will not be able to separate from the polling stations, we intend to consider this issue in order not to allow any violation of the legal rights of these citizens. You need attention and security for all participants in election races of equal media access. Some newspapers put it this way: “Democratic games for the rich only?” are referred to as billions of dollars of money spent on electoral agitation. It seems that the media, especially television, have actually become available only to the rich. [[And maybe that's what it is.]] We're going to consider this, and this is a question, although frankly, it's hard to imagine yet how basic justice can be ensured in this case. We will consider this question. The commission just got to work and problems came before us, as we did not deal directly with them. Well, for example, that's the problem. Election lists are made in English. In some places, for example, in the same Sevatospol in Donbas, the computer made a translation of the surnames. Well, for example, Krasnov was transferred by Red or Red, well, that's true. We have many such appeals coming to us now. We didn't deal with it, but we think we need to deal with it, because we can do a lot of stupid things about it. Or things like that show up. Well, whatever you say about the pet list, there must be questions. For example, for example, it comes to the Kručkov district, and for example, it is written in Krukov. He presents a passport. Perhaps we need to resolve the issue so that the election committee has the right to resolve such matters. But I repeat, the commission has just begun to work, and there will probably be many such issues. We called on MP factions and groups, parliamentary committees, government bodies, local self-government bodies, public organizations to make their proposals, to report on issues they thought were in violation of the settlement. A second session of the commission will be held on March 6. On the same day, we will meet with representatives of public organizations, we intend to hold the same meeting before the elections with representatives of international organizations and invite them to express their impressions after the elections. The committee’s work at the plenary meeting in March will be briefed by co - head Igor Raffailovich Yukhnovsky. It'll be March 17th. We hope that the parliamentary newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine”, which we have addressed, will also pay attention to the issues that our commission is concerned with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u90	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Any questions? Sign up. Sign up, Ivan Aleksandrovich, five minutes. Please, Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Valentine Grigorovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u92	Please, Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u93	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear George Korniyovich, I have it in my hands, so the newspaper happened by accident to "Act" since February 9th of this year. And there's the title of the publication: "If we lose, we'll push Parliament." This means an interview in this newspaper by Roman Immortal, the head of the political bloc “Our Ukraine”, which stated first: “I would.” In my original language, I read: “I guaranteed that power did not participate in the campaign if local parliamentary elections were not held at the same time.” Well, he certainly stated that, in the event of a failed election for the bloc, Parliament could be dissolved. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u94	I saw this paper, I read this interview, we didn't look at it on the committee, so I can't say it officially. I think it's an unprecedented statement, an unprecedented one. Frankly, I've been going through the following numbers, and I've been expecting to know that there might be a denial, because whatever stupid thing I've been assigned to do, I would definitely have said on the second day that you're going to give me a rebuttal. It's things to do, it's much worse than any administrative resource, like saying, let's say, calls for direct presidential rule, yes. I think it's serious things you can't ignore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u95	What, though, can you say when a person has become so unscrupulous? It's as if he's being accused of being wronged.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u96	If you say so, then. I just don't want to believe that a person could say that. This is, in general, a violation of the Constitution, but it's basic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u97	Yes, may I? Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Dear Adam Ivanovich, you see that the previous vote without our faction ended in nothing. You know, even though you were asking questions about getting back to the vote. And yet we will not, Adam Ivanovich, vote until the issue of depriving the MPs of local councils is raised. And nothing without our faction. This is in this Parliament, Adam Ivanovich, and in the next Parliament, no law will be passed without our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u98	I'm going to put your proposal to the vote. Yes, please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u99	Dear Georgi Korneevich, please state your opinion. You're a wise man, you know too much in this Parliament and all that. Tell me, please, what do you generally estimate, this temporary commission, what will it give? She'll have some effect on these walls, or is she, in fact, is there any hope that she'll make a difference in this country? Because it's too much to listen to talk about how they've come into power, so everyone else's words, not their rights, not their opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u100	Well, frankly, yeah? Honestly. I don't think the commission will interfere with the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u101	Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Georgi Korniyovich, you said that you were now working with those foreign commissions, foreign observers, and I apologize for coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u103	We're not working together yet. We'll invite them to a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u104	So I'd like you to specify which one. Because there's a representation of the OSCE and there's a representation from the SND. Will you both invite these branches to consider this, both of these representatives, to invite representatives of both sides to consider the matter? I am asking this question in connection with a recent statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You know what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u105	Well, I wouldn't say there's only two sides like this, one side and the other. This is, I think, and you agree that there are representatives of different organizations. We will not discredit anyone. We'll invite you. Whoever comes, we'll talk to them. And when it comes to, well, representatives from the SND, if they are, they're representatives, and the fact that this statement was made by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't think it's a masterpiece of state and diplomatic wisdom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u106	The president fixed them. Tissue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u107	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine I believe that we have made a mistake because we have obliged the commission to report every plenary week, as we see the report not actually ready. I have this question, perhaps more to Adam Ivanovich. We, as a member of the interim commission, have charges that have been distributed to the media by Zinchenko and Turkinov in connection with the corruption of the highest officials. The commission has finished its work and has already completed its report. For some reason this question is not put into the order of the day, and we are forced to listen to such intermediates without any reports or information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u108	Georgi Korniyovich, please sit down. Thank you. I'm going to answer, the point is, at this point, I haven't seen any applications from your committee for a similar hearing, for example. There will be a need, of course, for us to listen. The task of the Supreme Council is to listen to reports from all commissions when they want to report on the work done. On the contrary, we are satisfied that the commission has done its work and that it can report and that we can make the right decisions. So please take the initiative and we will consider. Yes. As appropriate, documents are sent, included in the agenda, and considered. Dear colleagues! We're going to take the report, the first previous information to be known, given that the commission has just started working, and hopefully another co-chairman, Igor Rafailovich, on March 17th, will tell us more about this issue, generalizing, synthesizing data. Now, dear colleagues, about the break. There are three of them. The first moment, we're with you instead of 30 minutes on demand and the speeches are spoken for an hour and a half. Second, we could call it a break right now. And the third moment, let's just cut into a little bit, not until the second hour, maybe we'll finish early, then you'll have a break. No objections? I won't. No, the “Variance ” will be necessary. We'll take an hour to get to the “Virgin”. But in order for us to take a quick look at all the questions, and calmly by March 14th, they could work hard with their voters so that our meeting would not be the last for many of us. So let's get back to work. Draft Decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the coalition of parliamentary factions and the formation of the Government on a coalition basis]] Vitaly, please, three minutes. Sergei Sas, please prepare for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u109	Honorary colleagues, structures and changes in the organization of state authority in Ukraine have been prompted by changes to the Constitution. They need additional legal regulation at the level of laws and regulations. This is particularly true of our regulations, which have long needed to be amended. The current regulation does not provide for appropriate legal rules to establish the forms and principles of the organization of activities and the cessation of the coalition of MP factions. For example, the provisions of Chapter 5.1 of the current Rules on the consideration of the candidate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do not correspond to the new provisions of the Constitution. So, given all of this, we propose to make changes to the current regulation, well aware that there is no time for the adoption of a new regulation in this Supreme Council. The proposal of the Supreme Council Order provides for a new chapter to be completed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to regulate the reorganization and dissolution of the parliamentary coalition, as well as the basic principles of its organizational activities. The project also proposes a new one, one that corresponds to the adopted amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, an order for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the proposed project, for technical reasons, does not contain provisions that determine the principles and guarantees of the activities of the parliamentary opposition. However, the relevant proposals have already been prepared and are being processed with the involvement of scientists at the Supreme Council Science and Expert Office and will be presented for second reading. So I'm asking, fellow honourable Members, that we make these additions to the Rules so that the new Supreme Council can begin to be guided by these additions to form the Cabinet of Ministers, first and foremost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u110	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Please, three minutes of Bagraev. Right. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, the Jury of Carmazin Block, which I am sure will be part of the majority coalition in the next parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u112	What if it's not a secret?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u113	Along with the healthy forces that I am sure will win this fight. I want to ask you. Please tell me if you do not see the need to revise the Rules and give a completely new edition. Although I am grateful to Alexander Alexander Moroz, and to Winsky, and to you and to Mr. Rudzkowski for predicting these moments. In particular, it was predicted that the prime minister's candidate would be reporting. But we've already seen the report, we've seen the report of beautiful women, we've seen less beautiful men, but then we see what's going on with these reports. So maybe let's do a new edition now, and at the next session we'll take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u114	I thank you for asking. I wanted to say that in 1994, along with my colleague Nosov, I joined that group that worked today’s Rules, and we worked for two months. And in order to process such a work, it takes a lot of time and taking into account that today this Parliament is no longer in a position to adopt a new Rules, yet we are proposing, saying that, yes, it really needs, you're right, let's prepare for the start of a new Parliament, to form a government, and then a new composition, and you're also working on a new Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u115	Dear Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u116	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina National Block”. Dear colleagues, I do not object to the fact that the document you are presenting is written, written and organized, and how parliamentary coalitions are dissolved, how the Prime Minister's nominations, candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers are presented. It's all right. I don't mind. But don't you think that, in general, my colleagues in the Lithuanian People's bloc are concerned that we have the power to go on the basis of regulations, laws, to be kind, to be gentle. And when the executive comes into power, you do not turn away from it. We have decided to resign the Government, and some ministers have already been asked twice to sit down. It's the impression that it's not the hands and feet, it's everything you can pinch on your chair. Maybe that was the point of paying attention and writing these things out in detail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u117	I think you're right to do it in the new Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u118	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich. In view of your extensive experience in Parliament, I ask that you comment on the remaining time, convince the room how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u120	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. Have a seat. I fully support the proposal made by the bloc's leader, who is very well represented in our Parliament, that a new Rules are needed. And in order for him to take an active part in his support, a working group was formed with the direction of the Chief of the Supreme Council, who had already held three or four meetings. We'll probably go out for another meeting Monday, for the last time. And we're going to go out to the last meeting in March to bring a new Supreme Council regulation to the session hall. And I hope that you and I, dear colleagues, will adopt a regulation that will ensure a simplified procedure for the work of the Supreme Council on the next fifth call. From the Committee on Rules' First Deputy Chief of the Committee, Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Committee on 21 February, the Supreme Council's decision to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was discussed. [[on the activities of the Coalition of Deputies]] First of all, the relevance of the bill was noted. In addition, the committee took note of the major conceptual flaws in the text of the project and the flaws in its design. In particular, according to article 83, part nine, of the Constitution, the principles governing the organization of activities and the cessation of the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are established by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These basic positions in the draft regulations are reflected in individual fragments or in such a way that they do not conform to constitutional requirements. And this, in our opinion, is probably because the authors have taken the basis for the regulations on the formation of MP factions. Thus, part of the first article 4.7.2 and part of part nine of article 4.7.4 of the project provides that a coalition of MP factions is registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Secretariat at a time when, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council provides the Supreme Council. The committee also disagreed with the provisions of part four of article 4.7.2, which refers to the dissolution of the coalition, since the provisions of part nine of article 83 of the Constitution do not establish the dissolution of the coalition but rather the cessation of its activities. But “release ” is not proper. There is no record of the consequences of such dissolution for those factions that have been or have been expelled from the coalition. It is only noted that the dissolution of the coalition is not a reason to review the personal composition of the committees. And about the consequences for the Prime Minister and the government members proposed by these factions, there are no positions. This in itself is a questionable one. The project also regulates only the coalition’s duty to form the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as the reporter spoke about. The issue of the coalition's involvement in the formation of other parliamentary bodies and the dismissal of cabinet ministers and their resignations are not in place. The proposed project does not properly define the position of the coalition council, the mandate of factions and their leaders at their meeting. The results of the factions of the MP coalition and the coalition council, including the cessation of coalition activity, are not specified. There are still a number of major shortcomings in the bill, and the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council not to support the bill, since it does not cover the full range of issues related to the organization of coalition activities. I wanted to confirm what the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council said.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u122	No, since you've started talking about me so well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u123	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm going to start by saying very nice things about you and saying that, as Adam Ivanovich said, a working group is working on the preparation of the draft Supreme Council Rules. 80% of text is already working. And I think the working group will be ready to submit to the Supreme Council in March-month a worthy draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and hope that it will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u124	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Volodymyrovich. He will be so wisely prepared that we will agree immediately. Yeah, we'll talk about it? They do. Well, let's take 10 minutes to talk? 12? Well, that's 12. Taran, get ready for Garden. Victor Vasilovich, why don't I put your proposal to the vote right away?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u125	That's a great offer. Come on, stand up. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, this is a perfectly normal project that responds to Ukrainian legislation in accordance with changes to the Constitution that have been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as has already been said, there is a coalition of MPs, which consists of the majority of Ukrainian national deputies, details the order of human resources issues, and so on. And the bills need to be adopted, and I just want to say that all the proposals that the national MP Sass has been talking about because there are certain positions that need to be worked out in detail. I want to draw attention to an important aspect of the above. The coalitions need to be shaped on the basis of the principle of political reconciliation and in this context -- like it or not -- I want to remind once again that Yulia Timoshenko's Block will never block with the anti-Ukrainian forces that we, in particular, will not block with the Party of the Regions, and it's very sad that this is the point that our partners in "Our Ukraine" don't have when it comes to signing an agreement on an orange-force coalition. That's why I'm talking about it. Please, I'm talking about this because it's a question of people. But if "Our Ukraine" isn't planning to be born with Yanukovic, let it be Yehanurov who heads the list of "Our Ukraine" will also sign either under the Coalition Agreement or finally under his own obligation that "Our Ukraine" will not betray Midan and will not be with Yanukovic, that is, let Mr. Yehanurov do what Julia Timoshenko has done. But the facts point to something else -- people who talk a lot about the coalition, they don't actually do anything and they don't intend to sign any documents. And for. negotiations on the creation of an orange coalition are being held in real negotiations to fill the Yanuković-Jushchenka axis with real meaning. And as for this bill that I want to go back to, I want to. I want to go back to the bill and say so. [[Please, I'm not the Head of the Supreme Council.]] I want to say that we have to listen to Adam Ivanovich's words, which is what the new Rules really need, and we need to work on it and, in principle, we need to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the question is still under discussion. Santa's garden, please. “He will come now” – he will not have words. Basil Nadrag. Solomon's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u127	Vasily Nadrag, “The People's Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the People's Block of Lithuania, in any case, have never objected to improving the normative base of the Supreme Council, that is, what regulates our activities with you. But there are several points that have been or have not yet been made in the discussion of the order. Look, there's a pretty interesting case: it says that the coalition is forming, and there's a mechanism written down. But it is not a mechanism that has been signed, but it is correctly said that there is a misunderstanding: that the withdrawal of one faction from the coalition can only take place legally if the constitutional majority of parliament votes in favour of this withdrawal, i.e. it is necessary that two thirds of the deputies in the Chamber vote to withdraw from the coalition. But I'm sorry, and if there are 226 members of the coalition, then she won't represent herself for two thirds? Who will vote? So this is some kind of case that's driving the situation into a corner. Let's move on. There is nothing, and there is no detailed mechanism for the withdrawal of factions from the coalition, and the main thing is: what will be next with those candidates who have proposed from the coalition, for example, to the same executive power. This is going to happen: either we have to fire them with a machine, or we get what I've already said here again: that, unfortunately, we have to get into the executive power of those who always want to write down the normative base of entry into power, and we have to get out of the executive power -- we're going to have our hands, our legs, sorry, we're going to have to keep our teeth warm, anything but to keep them out. That's why it's the same here. This document suffers from the possibility of bringing its representatives into the executive power. And ask them on what terms, who should ask them? They have to leave automatically or they have to write a statement or something, so to speak, there is nothing inconsistent. That is why I think that, in summarizing the situation, I will express the views of the members of the People's Block of Lithuania, which may be the point of the order. But the emphasis must be placed on what our chairman has said, and the rapporteur from the committee, that the need for an integrated document of the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council is indeed a very relevant topic. And we, all the deputies, need to mobilize ourselves, I'm not afraid of that word, so that we can adopt this document for the rest of the sessional week. Because the introduction of some single, not always until the end of the dropped documents can lead to further conflicts that we, in general, will then be either us or the distinguished representative of the legendary Block, who speaks of the majority in Parliament, nevertheless, so to speak, then the executions will continue. Therefore, the outcome of this logic, the members of the faction of the People's Block of Lithuania will support this decision, although once again we believe that regulation should be adopted – the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u128	Yuri Solomatin, please. Get ready for another Yuri, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, there are three main parts in each Parliament: the majority, the opposition and the swamp. The swamps are political transvestites, they change, they're in opposition, they're in coalition. This would have to be clear and determined in a holistic way towards the entire Parliament, not just by the coalition that we are discussing: who is who? In this respect, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should, of course, be amended accordingly. And that's where you write these three parts clearly. There's a coalition and it's got these people, they have these flags, they have this position, and they have this power. They are responsible for this. And here's the opposition, there's one flag or a couple of flags, but they also have their father, and it's kind of like it's a swamp, and the swamp, so to speak, it's a swamp. The pain. And why did it come to Parliament incomprehensible. And he needs the authority to give them, that is, none if it's a swamp. That is when we approach this issue in a holistic manner, we will come up not only with parliamentarians, but also with people who understand who is who or how Gorbachev said, “Who is who?” And lastly, it must be deadly attached to those who have come to Parliament not to defend their positions that he has declared during the elections, but to make some of his equipment to resolve some of his private issues. From this point of view, which I have set out, of course, here is the document that is proposed to our attention, which is harmful. Scientifically speaking, it's palliative. It's not even a compromise, it's palliative. And you can't take him. Our faction does not support this document and we ask you, distinguished colleagues, to focus on the Rules that are being prepared and that we will consider in March. And I very much ask you, let us in this Rules clearly determine who is who. Coalition, opposition, and the Bolto Transvestites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u130	But the swamp is also needed in nature. Karmazin Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u131	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Of course, I agree with the previous statement that we need to define. And the definition will be given by the Ukrainian people when there are many such flags in this Parliament, not one that will record the truth, the law, the faith. And then the Ukrainian people will give it when it's clear that in the 14th issue, the majority will vote for the Carmazin Block. And you'll understand why it's necessary for most people to vote for it. Today, a letter from journalists has appeared on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a letter that could have been said to be SOS, which should have been stopped, absolutely everything, today and today. Because it was precisely according to the Rules of Procedure for Us to include the situation around the National Sports Complex “Olympic” on the occasion of the 2006 tender after the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine together with Poland. And I would ask you all to give your word, no one would give. Why? The point is that historical relics are being burned. And now the misunderstanding masters of the capital of Ukraine are spoiling Kiev's appearance, spoiling and building some incomprehensible malls. What is it, ladies and gentlemen? Here's what needs to be included in the order of the day, that's what needs to be demanded. Because now, if the Football Federation calls off our letter, our application, it'll mean we'll never get there. These were the questions that the government and the Prime Minister had to raise during their visit to Poland. Why is this not done, Yuri Ivanovich? Why isn't it done today? I'm talking to the city of Kiev, the city of Omelchenka, stop building there, lift everything and tell the world, signal that you're not on the side of the nuvarians, you're on the side of the sport, you're on the side of the football that you're on the side of the progressive community.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u132	On the subject. It's about the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u133	I'm talking about a coalition, Adam Ivanovich. Then if football brings everything else together, it'll be a coalition. And I, you know, would like to offer you a way out of a regular crisis. We need to support the offer of Frost, Winsky, Šibka, Rudzikowski. To vote in the first reading, like all documents, to vote now. And then, as you prepare, you will be amended and incorporated into your Rules, which you are now giving, Adam Ivanovich. So if today, what millions of Ukrainians are not on the subject, saving the National Sports Complex of the Olympics and Ukraine's future, then what might be on the subject. I'm asking you, let's put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u134	Yes, dear fellows, the Hare a minute, please, and the Incorruptible Minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u135	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. I give my word to Mikhail Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u136	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u137	Dear voters, dear colleagues, of course, football is very important, but I'm going to talk about the draft decision. It is the introduction of such a draft decree that shows that some of the political forces have not been prepared for constitutional reform, as we have, and all others have not been prepared for that reform. Because the question: how should the members of the coalition respond to the responsibility, how should the members of the coalition respond when the parliamentary-presidential republic exists, should be considered not under the influence of the activities of this session, but rather as a change in the “grained” rules of Parliament. This issue should be settled by a separate law when it comes to matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u138	Yes, please, Boris Bespalium microphone or the rostrum. The Rabbit didn't give you any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, Boris Bespalij, Yuschenka Block “Our Ukraine”. The honourable draft of the decision can say that it's interesting as a creative search, but it won't have any practical meaning, because it's going to come to a new Parliament, a new majority, which is going to form a coalition. And before forming a coalition, it will change the decision as it pleases. It's a completely understandable thing. But creative search needs to be welcomed, and the search for constitutional options needs to be welcomed. Now there's a line on the first speaker. I ask myself and you, the honourable listeners, the audience: why are colleagues from BUTU always spreading their own initiative of shouting that “Our Ukraine” seems to be blocking with Yanukovic. And this about our Ukraine, which has actually taken the first position in the struggle of the Ukrainian people for democracy, precisely against this force. And the answer is very simple. This is in order to distract, in fact, from the anti-presidential, anti-government coalition in force, which is being joined by BUT and Janukovič and Medvedchuk. All you have to do is look at their votes against the President's veto. Systemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u140	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u141	It's the second minute for a lineup. Any unbiased person can see how they vote in favour of defeating the veto of the popular President Victor Yushchenk, in sync with these forces. For example, yesterday, when the veto was over, it was against the President’s completely fair comments that Sevastopol should remain a full, independent Ukrainian city. And this is to distract attention from this actual blockage and to spread a variety of nonsense about our Ukraine. So I have a big request to all the distinguished viewers, voters, and so on. I think every political power should speak for itself, “Our Ukraine” is capable of proving its position on its own and not paying attention to gossip, rumors and a variety of nonsense. We're talking about other political forces and their actions are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u142	Yeah, we're done here, we'll figure it out. Let me talk to you for a minute. Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u143	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction. I was going to say that, really, today you can see who wants to form a coalition, and who today doubts whether he will form this coalition of the majority or not. And that's showy. But I want to take it seriously. By the time our Rules are prepared, we must have a safety guard. For today no one is sure that we can accept our Rules in one week at two or three readings. So I invite you to vote in favour of the Rules, and when the Rules are in place and we do so, we will make this change to the Rules and they say we will ensure the formation of a coalition in the next Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u144	Thank you. Discussing the Question complete. Let's define ourselves. I am voting on the decision to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the activities of the coalition of parliamentary factions and the formation of government on a coalition basis. Registration number 9038. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:51:15.]] For 121 The factions, please. Yes, the People's Party – 16, “Our Ukraine” – 23, socialists – 26, “Litvina People's Block” – 18, Social Democrats – 3. [[United]] I only read those who say yes. Ukrainian People's Party – 9, National Movement – 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 5, Reforms and Orders – 12, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, everyone else did not give a vote. I told you. Dear colleagues, let us not be upset, because once again, I repeat, all of this will be installed necessarily and I will say that on the basis of this, this draft decree prepared a corresponding chapter to the Rules on this issue. Yes, we have two laws. A draft law on the specificities of the exercise of the right to share property by property owners in agricultural enterprises. Registration numbers 8206 and 8206-1. If you don't mind, let's support the President's proposal. the committee, which is to reject Bill 8206. This is Ivan Fedorovich Tomic. And the bill proposed by the government, 8206-1, is to be submitted for further processing and re-read. Is there any objection? Then I'm voting for Bill 8206-1 to re-read. Please vote. I'll put your proposal to the vote. [[12:53:23]] For the 220. Your Honor, I understand that you've heard a good decision and a little bit. Who's to go back to the vote? [[12:53:49]] For 242 Thank you, we're back. I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Law on the characteristics of the exercise of the right to share property by property owners in agricultural enterprises, registration number 8206-1. Please vote. It's a government project. [[12:54:24]] For 248 Thank you, copy. Dear colleagues! Don't relax, stay in your jobs. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas. Here we have three bills, registration numbers 7680, 7680-1 and 7680-2. The conclusion of the committee is to adopt these bills as a basis for 7680-2. Incompetent decision? Well, let's do it, dear fellows. Let's listen to the reporters. Then let's figure it out. Please report the first Bill 7680 to Deputy Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing Kazmiruk Yuri Josephovich. Prepare for the Truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, continuing to work on improving and simplifying the procedures for the construction of buildings, proposals are made for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Construction of Areas, which is central to the regulation of urban relations. Legislative proposals provide for an expansion of the possibilities for the developer to obtain the output data for the design. First of all, it refers to a valid requirement today to acquire land to obtain a building permit for the developer, so the right to obtain the output. With the adoption of this law, the builder is expected to obtain the output and start the design after prior agreement on the location of the object, dealing with the issue of land rights in parallel. This creates a significant win in time. Another way to simplify access to output data is to introduce local rules for the construction of settlements based on the zoning of their territories. It is predicted that the only conditions and restrictions on the construction of a certain area of land by the established rules can also serve as a starting point for the design of many objects allowed for the area. The proposed clarifications to the Ukrainian Law on the Construction of Areas are aimed at initiating this mechanism. The bill also contains provisions to prohibit information abuse in the provision of output from authorized authorities and institutions, as well as to eliminate some conflicts with valid legislation. The adoption of the bill will contribute to an improved and simplified permit system in construction, and it will have a positive impact on the conditions for urban activities as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u146	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, Sergey Makarovich. It's a simplified procedure. Please, 7680-1. Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! From my point of view and from the point of view of the people who worked for us in this bill, we need to. There is an opportunity today to adopt all the three bills proposed, in the first reading as a minimum, because they relate to the various things related to this law on planning and the construction of territories. In particular, the Toločka Bill and mine make it impossible to create a variety of frauds in construction, a variety of "elite centers" and so on and so forth. If he had been admitted a year ago, there would have been no scandals and robberies. It clearly states that legal persons for whom the construction is professional and who are interested in the construction work should demonstrate their financial stability, annual accounting, annual financial performance, profit and loss report, annual fund-raising report and so on, and so on, show their property, show how many professionals are certified if they are built in a protected area or in a historical area, that is, at the point of the city and so on, and so on. I believe that, for the benefit of citizens who invest in construction, they buy up to two feet [2 m] and risk having a pyramid, for the benefit of these citizens, the bill must be adopted. I don't understand why the Committee on Construction was in charge of Mr. Desert Shadow, although I can't say it's a committee, because on February 15, there might have been 2-3 people sitting there, wrote that the bill should be rejected, and paragraph 2, they are already writing themselves a task to take into account the basic provisions of the bill in the drafting of the Ukrainian law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas on the Simplification of Permitted Construction Procedures. On the contrary, our bill complicates certain procedures so that no conman can take 30 hundred, announces that he is building, collecting money, and disappearing, that is, does not apply to simplification. And what it says to reject and then count, does that mean that it was ours or what? Well, that's not the way it is! This is not the reconstruction of the Palace of Ukraine and the reconstruction. Still, it's some kind of intellectual property. Dear colleagues, I urge you in the interests of our fellow citizens, first of all, and the interests of a vast army of truly professional builders who have worked hard on this bill, I ask you to accept, at least in the first reading, even though it is entirely acceptable for adoption immediately in general. [[It's not just Pravdenko and Toloczko, there's still a legion of builders, lawyers and so on.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u148	Thank you, Sergey Makarovich. Please, Leonid Alexiyovich Isaiah, 7680-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Now we have a lot of instigators, and I'm very excited about society. We all witness the excitement of society, primarily through self-inflicted construction. And in all of today’s legislations, it comes out so that the issue can be properly resolved. The court has no legal basis for recognizing this self - forgetfulness itself. And today this topic is present literally, well, in every publication in all the media. There's a lot of examples, just repeating them doesn't make any sense. Today’s newspaper, Kyiv, was very good at writing about it. In my district of 169, just last year, 15 were examples where 200 to 300 signatures were asked to do it somehow, there, well, do it right. And the more interesting the territory, the more the excitement, the more the temptation to do what is most necessary for yourself. The mechanism is very simple: the user has a land plot, he does a project, he does a building, and what doesn't fit in here, he doesn't care at all. Squares, children’s homes, sports buildings, and so forth. Very bright from this rostrum right now, a minute ago, said Yuri Carmazin. Very good, here. And you won't. This judicial burden, which then passes, ends up being that whoever did this same building, they order him there with some fines and that's it, that's it, that's it. The documents pick up the numbers in the back, they close the case. And those who have suffered from it are left with nothing. Clearly, this should not be the case. What should we do about it? I think we need to make not big changes, but very important changes and additions to the Planning and Construction Act. And I'm not going to list them here, they're all in the draft of the Law, and two of the main ones, I have to say, it's a simplified procedure for allowing the customer to do construction work, not allowing construction -- that's what it should be. Above all, the permit to do construction work and the arrangement for the adoption of completed construction works. These, if we do this, we'll be fine. The draft Law was also discussed on the committee that is ours for construction, transportation, housing, and association with construction workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u150	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, are we not going to discuss this? Please, Corge, there's Gardens behind him. Corge, Garden. Get ready. Dear colleagues, please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u151	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. It should be noted that the draft of the Act “On Change in the Law of Ukraine on Planning and Construction of Areas, on Construction” proposed substantial changes in the regulation of the planning of the construction and other use of the territories. In particular, article 24 changes, and I quote: “The Kiev and Sevastopol city administrations, when delegated such powers to them by appropriate councils at the Kiev City State Administration and the executive body authorized by the Sevastopol City Council. And the articles are presented as follows. I quote. Natural and legal persons who intend to build construction sites on land owned or used by them are obliged to obtain permission from the executive bodies of the relevant councils of the Kyiv City State Administration and the executive body authorized by the Sevastopol City Council to build the building site and to continue building permits. The main benefit of these changes is that the powers of local authorities are being extended, possible duplications of regulations in technical conditions or additional information provided by specially authorized authorities in the area of construction and architecture are being eliminated. I believe that the adoption of the law will make it possible, on the one hand, to simplify the procedures of the permit system in construction, and on the other hand, to prevent the destruction of historic and protected areas, which is a classic example of a vulgar building on cave hills, which flouts before the eyes of the Chinese and the distinguished national deputies, including. But the bill needs serious redrafting. Adam Ivanovich, you promised to put to the vote a bill depriving MPs of the local council. I'm asking you to keep your promise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u152	Well, I might, but you don't keep your promise, you don't vote yet. Yes, please, Santa Claus. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u153	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. With regard to the bill, its development is conditioned by the need to improve the existing legal basis for placement, the design of construction sites, and the authorization to build them. If we adopt this law first in the first reading and then in the second reading, it is expected that the adoption of a regulatory act will simplify the procedures of the permit system in construction and will contribute to the introduction of better management in construction and improvement of the investment situation. Of course, in order to build, it will be necessary to overcome the information on financial stability, which contains the annual accounting report, the annual financial indicators, the profit and loss report, the next, the annual fund-raising report, and so on. Then there won't be, for example, a situation that is constantly being created in the city of Kirovograd, when, for example, at one of the last sessions of the Kirovograd area without discussion, without any comment, a decision has been made on, I would say, land grabbing. One package of ballots was the decision to allocate a thousand 295 lands. So they simply put together a list, they distributed the land, they distributed the main land, and they certainly included a few dozen people who needed this area to make the construction and other. In the city of Kirovograd, roads built, squares are built, parks are cleared, and children’s playgrounds are usually built. For example, there's a building near house 81 on Poltavsky Street without any permission. All of this is certainly contrary to the city’s master plan. The following is the case with regard to the granting of building permits. This dosage is also done largely through certain cabinets, through certain envelopes, and this is certainly to be completed. So the Socialists are going to support this bill in the first reading, because the first step is taken in this direction. But this second-reading bill requires more detailed work and socialists will make their proposals to improve the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for his solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u155	Yuri Karmazin, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. Dear national deputies, with the adoption of all these laws, the amendments to the laws on planning and the construction of the territory, we are already late, we are late, because the vandals have reached Kiev and other cities. So I'm going to suggest that each of these laws be adopted in the first reading and we can accept them in general with a packet, they don't contradict each other. With regard to the first law reported by its colleague Pravdenko, there may be monopolization, if you do not consider that there are enterprises that are just new ones. And I'm going to ask you to adopt these laws, you can even accept them in two readings each, because there will be less damage than in Kiev. Today, everyone is asking how this could have happened at the Elite Centre. And I'll tell you how it happened. Let Amru Larissa Maragilovna buy land in the center of Kiev, which were allocated to other people for a completely different purpose. The city council of Kiev looks like they can't see. The main management of the “Mossing Architecture” concludes on the subject. limitations and loads are available to remove the selected areas without entering any changes. According to the 118th article of the Code of Land, the Main Administration of Construction, Architecture, and Design did not agree. By its decisions, the Kiev City Council approved projects for the removal of land at the addresses sold as follows: Schmidt 26 c, Schmidt 26 b., Schmidt 26 g. in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev right here with us. [[It's all the same lady.]] Approves with a violation of the requirements of the 39 Articles, 118 Articles, 184 Articles of the Code of Land, Articles 17, 19 of the Law on the Basics of Construction. Article 13 of the Law on the Planning and Construction of Areas. The prosecutor's office is silent. Why is he silent? Because 143 sites in recent years have been allocated to the public prosecutor's office for construction. What? Office centers and housing. Ladies and gentlemen, where the Parliamentary Committees, where the public control, where the media control. That is why this led to what happened in Kiev today. That's why. Next. Why ask for permission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine when it comes to landscapes, reserves, everything else? Without it, without the Supreme Council, everything is done in Kiev today. So, dear friends, I quote this as an argument, I have a lot of examples where people are shouting "SOS." I've already given you the SOS on the Olympics. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u156	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I address those with whom I live next door in the Teremki-1 microregion in Kiev. Let us remember, as we have in the micro-region back in Soviet times, at the last plot of land that was designed to build a community-cultural centre with a total area of 30,000 square metres, and this construction was started, but then in 1991, independence. And by about 2000 an investor had come and the investor had made commitments, and the city and district authorities had confirmed this commitment by their consent to the reconstruction of the social and cultural centre. The reconstruction ended with the creation of a trading cent of Magellan in the same area of 30,000 square metres. If, in the first instance, out of 30,000 square metres 2000 for further development of the trading network, 28,000 square metres are sports halls, and the corner of children's creativity, and the district library and much more, what is needed to provide social and cultural needs for this micro-region, where there are more than 20,000 Kievlians. So now we've got another trading barn, where 28,000 square meters are commercial areas, and 2,000 -- what's supposed to be working on this micro-region -- is a banking structure, a pharmacy, and something else. This is how the current city and district authorities take care of the Kievs. Therefore, this bill on the planning and construction of territories, and all the changes and additions that they provide, are aimed at making no one else, nor the mayors, nor the cheeses and others, more convincing and loud. And today they're making fun of the population. They're supposed to be protected by the law. Therefore, in closing my statement, I would like to say that our faction supports all three bills introduced in the first reading, such as those aimed at upholding the rights of citizens, to entrench the rights of citizens in addressing such vital issues. And I will say to the sire and to the pharaoh, "You will wait. You will still be accountable to the people for your misdeeds."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u158	Do not knock on the rostrum, for you will have to answer for damage to your property. Yes, the discussion is over. Let's mobilize, dear fellows. I think it's absolutely right, the wise conclusions were. Despite the fact that these are three bills, each of them has the right to life because they complement each other. And you were right about, you were right about what's happening now from, in construction, in the building of the central parts of any of the cities, soon we'll be walking not the streets, but probably on the underpass roads. Because there's no square meter left. Let's support these bills in the first reading. And let's ask the profile committee to bring them into one, prepare a generalization project for the second reading. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. I'm voting on the bill government number 7680. All three together, no objection? Then I put all three of them on the first reading with the commission of the committee to prepare for the second. Please vote. Ivan Alexanderovich, vote, I'll give you the word in the first. [[13:18:33]] For 212 The factions. “Regions” – 40, Communists – 51, People's Party – 24, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 25, Socialists – 19, National Block - 19, Social Democrats, Ukrainian People - 7, “Rebirth” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Reforms and Orders - 1, Postfraction – 5. [[i.e. the stock is]] [[stock is]] [[stock is]] Dear colleagues! We have the opportunity to return to voting. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. In the first reading, we say the first. [[13:19:32]] For the 220. Bondarenko's here now. The heads will be here. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. You better push it, it'll work. [[13:20:13]] For 211 Yeah, shall we try it again? Come on. Now. Get ready, fellows. Colleagues, show solidarity with each other, help a little. I am putting to the vote the law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Planning of Landslides. [[Registration numbers 7680-1 and 2]] Please vote. And we're going to vote on that. [[13:21:21]] For the 250. Thank you. Yes. Now I'm voting on the adoption of these three bills in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:21:46]] For 234 Yes, the first reading is 234. No, not in general. No, we won't be in general. Don't shout, I won't vote in general. Dear colleagues, and we have one law left, two minutes, and we're going to the "Virgin". I'll continue for 15 minutes. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, registration number 8714, two minutes, please, Matthew. [[concerning guarantees of labour rights]] And we'll vote. Then I remember, Kaletnik, I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u159	Honorary colleagues, appointed by the national deputies Gabrieluk, Žižek, Sás, Lukyanenko, Cherniak, aimed at eliminating inequalities in the employment rights of those national deputies of previous vocations, who, after completing their parliamentary powers, decided to go to work and not to rely on material assistance at the expense of Parliament. It is known that article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies provides for material assistance only to those national deputies who are not employed immediately after the completion of their duties. The adoption of this bill will allow us to use the experience of former national deputies acquired in the legislative body to realize their professional acquisitions. Because they will be sure that if they lose their jobs, they will be able to obtain certain social guarantees and will be included in the staff reserve of the Ukrainian Chief State Service. It is also important, fellow citizens, to note that former national deputies have the right to receive these social guarantees only on condition that their working life exceeds 25 years for men and 20 years for women. By the way, the introduction of this law is scheduled for January 1, 2007. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, do you understand? We're clear. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[concerning guarantees of labour rights]] Registration number 8714. BUIT actively supports us. Vote. First reading. Vote. [[13:24:54]] For 219 Let's see the factions. 44 – “Regions”, 49 – Communists, Block Timoshenko – 1, People's Party – 21, “Our Ukraine” – 17, Socialists – 21, People's Block Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 16, 1 - Ukrainian People's Party, “Rebirth” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs – 9, “Reforms and Orders” – 6, non-fractional – 6. [[United]] Shall we go back? Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. Vote. Ivan Alexandrovich, help! Help me, Ivan Alexanderovich, help me! [[13:25:39]] For 218. Dear colleagues, it's about those of our colleagues, and that could be any of us who will ever cease to exercise the authority of the national MP. Are we going back? Come on, let's go back. [[13:26:31]] For the 220. Show the factions, without an announcement, I won't announce. Carmazine's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you in connection with what we have promised the electorate that we will cancel the parliamentary immunity and ask the question wisely for all fees and allowances. These questions are interconnected because the session ends and we have nothing to say to the electorate. And now I see that some factions are motivated by non-voting by what needs to be put in the complex. Adam Ivanovich, let's put in place and adopt a law on the elimination of inviolability in the first reading. Well, we have to do this, we promised. And with that, we're going to adopt this law. We're going to unlock the whole situation that's happening right now. You're a wise man, you know how to do it. And you promised, if you promised, what you did. So let's do it, cancel it, you know I didn't vote, I don't want to touch it. But we need to take this step now so that our voters can calm down. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u162	Yuri Anatolyevich, you may not have heard my promise carefully. I promised BUTH that if they took part in the vote, I would put their proposal to the vote. Since they do not vote, I am free of my promises. Yes, I am voting once again on the draft Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”. Registration number 8714. Vote. [[13:28:56]] For 266 We're back, we're back. I'm putting a vote on acceptance as a basis or as a whole? As a matter of fact. Please vote. And as a basis and as a whole as a law. Vote, vote more friendlyly as a whole as a law. [["13:29:28]] For 268. The law has been passed. Honorary colleagues, show by factions, according to factions: “Ukraine” - 44, Communists - 50, Block Timoshenko - 31, National Party - 28, Our Ukraine - 21, Socialists - 17, National Block Lithuania - 18, Social Democratic Party - 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Rebirth - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, Reforms and Orders - 14, non-fractional - 5. [[united]] Dear colleagues, you see, the 31 voice of BUT has been given, so I'm voting on their proposal. Who's in charge next plenary week to consider the issue of the integrity of national MPs? I'd like to make a statement. We're not ready right now. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:30]] For 186 Not accepted. The factions. “Regions” – 13, Communists – 0, Block Timoshenko – 36, People's Party – 13, “Our Ukraine” – 20, Socialists – 16, National Block Lithuania – 19, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine – 13, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 0, National Party of Ukraine – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, “Reforms and Orders” – 11, non-fractional – 5. [[united]] Yes, dear colleagues, right now, we're going to be signing up for different things, but before different times, please listen to two of these. First. First moment. We are now on behalf of the committee. Don't yell, I won't put it to the vote anymore. Don't shout, don't get excited. We will no longer vote. I'll be right there. I won't put it to the vote anymore. Don't shout. Listen, please, we're going to hear a representative of the Rules Committee right now, so that we can finally figure out what we're talking about in the budget. Then, then we'll sign it up, but before they go after the list they signed up for, here I was asked to take a long time off from the factions, I'll give them the first one, they'll come forward, and then everyone else will. It's the representatives of Mike who's going to be there and then who's going to be there. Please sign up for the performance. We sign up for different things. Press the buttons correctly so that you are not accused of not being recorded. Please show me on the board so that you can identify who and what and how. Yes, please, Gregory Kaletnik, microphone. Be careful, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich! Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yesterday we adopted the budget changes to the bill, but it did not properly identify the source of funding for the measures that we voted on. So what I would like to say is that the voted amendments to the Law on Budgets for the Deprivation of the Privatization of the “Croatstals” for environmental and socio-economic development of the city of Krivi Rig and its surrounding population areas of the Dnipropetrov region are necessary for the stenogram to be amended as follows. The editorial refinement of the indicator reconciliation and the source of the subsidy for the change in the amount of cash in the State budget for 2006. It's what I want us to do, or that law won't work, which we adopted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u164	We talked about this, the same thing as another Civil Service Act, so that there would be clarifications. The Committee on Budget Affairs, the Legal Authority, in preparing these laws for signature, to take into account how this law works. Please, Mother Vitaly. Prepare from the “Regions” and the National Block who? Cage, please, and then we'll go get the list, please. One hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u165	Mother Vitaly, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. The faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the situation that has taken place today around the State International Airport Borispil. It is obvious to us that the complex problems of land and property ownership, the management of a strategic state object, are deliberately becoming the plane of a loud, long - lasting political scandal. The political forces involved are using it. a conflict to suppress the passions and emotions that they consider to be an integral part of the pre-election process. Even sacred things, such as people’s natural desire for their own safety, including air transport, are used for questionable polling. Especially the indignation of our faction has prompted attempts to make the leader of the PPU, RBU Secretary Anatolia Kinaha and members of his family figures of this story, to blame for the personal interest in solving individual issues of the activity of the Borispol Airport. The faction will act in such a way that it will not allow the security interests of millions of passengers of the airport of the enterprise, the labour force, the state of hostages of the structural goals, individual politicians or business structures. We welcome the establishment of an interdepartmental commission on the issue around Borispil, as well as the readiness of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to fully contribute to its activities in monitoring the state's economic interests, improving the efficiency of airport activities. Besides, I'd like to tell my fellow MPs. Dear friends, if you are sitting next to one another, do not seek communication through the press because of statements made in the Supreme Council. How come you can't find Kinach and talk to him if you sit across the line with me, Mr. Lewyn? We'd find a way to meet you. This suggests that we need to find a loud, effective statement instead of solving the issue. Besides, I think that's what the program sounds like. To investigate the causes of the critical state of aviation, we heard the fixation of this condition, not the search for reasons. I assure you that we will be able to help you find a meeting with Keenah, and we will help you to deal with the matter. But I want you to know, in a lot of airport meetings, Anatoly Kirilovich is looking for solutions to state interests. And where you find a clue, you have to find a little bit of a way to solve the usual issues in the working environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u166	He's a executioner. You've already exchanged lines, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, deeply respected people of Ukraine. The inconsolable performance of the domestic economy in January 2006, less than one per cent of GDP growth in industry by three per cent, forces the faction of the Party of the Regions to reiterate that the current government does not have, as is the case, an unprivileged view of the current serious problems. The Government has not told the people of Ukraine how it manages the economy and how it intends to lead the country. The cabinet of Ministers of Ehanurov came in September and has since not provided a realistic, rather than science fiction programme of action. As there was no meaningful economic policy, the Government of Timoshenko does not have it now. The World Bank's 2006 projections for Ukraine are known: one and a half percent of economic growth is very low, and this is a slowdown, not growth. Moreover, we have a chance not to wait for this very low indicator of economic development unless the system of anti-crisis measures proposed by the Party of the Regions is implemented in Ukraine immediately after the March elections. This year we will have a major decline in all aspects of the country's life. If the initiatives of the Party of the Regions are not implemented, in the most optimistic way, we will be able to expect an absolute reduction of 2-6 per cent in GDP. It exacerbates the situation that has been chosen by the current Ukrainian leadership for the confrontational path of relations with Russia. We see what Kiev's commitment to reviewing existing gas agreements with the Russian side has led to. What was behind it and who in the Government wondered what the signal of the economy was for the revision of gas prices, what would be the cost to Ukrainian enterprises tomorrow. 138 dollars, and in the second half, it's 230. How much will the population pay for gas? By the way, it would be good for the electorate to remember that President Yushchenko vetoed the moratorium adopted by the Supreme Council on rising housing and utility prices and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services. As it is said, draw conclusions from the electoral urns on 26 March. But the main problem is that the Government has contributed uncertainty and unpredictability to the work of domestic enterprises. As producers have pointed out, long-term and financial and economic planning is not possible in the current context. Who today will invest in the development of energy-intensive production, if there is no certainty, not what is 5 years ahead, but even a year ahead. What serious investments, what is Ukraine's exit to the level of the developed economies of the world? The faction of the regions of Ukraine insists on the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Government's programme of action for economic governance and the country's budget to the Supreme Council until 17 March 2006, taking into account the above situation. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction notes that only with the advent of government management of professionals from a party in the country will things start to change for the better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u168	Mikola Sadowa, get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u169	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear radio listeners, distinguished MPs! I am in charge of the assignment of mothers whose children are seriously ill. I'll read the mother's address. “Dear Nicholas Illich, we ask you to announce our letter at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to take the initiative to list the day-to-day salary of members of the Supreme Council for the acquisition of gamma knife. With respect and hope, the Third Victoria Valerievna. The valley region. Kirovograd district. On behalf of the mothers of children with malignant head tumors performed surgery at the Institute of Neurosurgery in Kiev. The Grand Charity! Please help save the lives of our children. According to a diagnosis, our children have terrible diseases — brain tumors. In order to save the lives of small Ukrainians, it is now necessary to purchase a gamma-lower medical device. It's a very expensive machine that buys abroad. We are all exhausted by endless treatment. Without the help of all Ukrainians, our country will not be able to buy it. You're parents, too. You must understand our grief. When a child is ill, he is willing to give his life. When is life and death at stake? Our last hope for you. On our knees, we beg, do not be indifferent to our grief, to the grief of hundreds of mothers in Ukraine! This will save hundreds of little children, hundreds of little suns, hundreds of bright souls of little children. With respect and hope, mothers of children who are diagnosed with brain tumors." Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The socialists support the request that I read, and they're initiating a decision to recalculate the day-to-day earnings of deputies for the purchase of a gamma knife in this case. At the same time, I am calling on the Ministry of Health to take appropriate measures regarding the purchase of this important medical device, which will save more than a dozen children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u170	The only thing I can do to help is to have a personal statement from each of the national MPs. Please, Nicholas Komar. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u171	Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Devoted soldiers, veterans of military service! Respectable defenders of the Family! The recent developments in the country force us, members of the Party of the Regions, to assess the situation in the State objectively and to propose initiatives to overcome the deepening crisis. The so-called orange revolution brought only disappointment to the people. The “New Power” has proved economically helpless and has been completely distorted in all aspects of public policy, has fallen sharply in economic growth, has fallen significantly in the standard of living of the people, the social, political and economic situation has deteriorated. The Ukrainian Armed Forces did not escape the crisis. Under the form of reform, they are now being destroyed. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction states: “The short-sightedness and unprofessionalism of the current leadership of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, imposed on Ukraine the orientation of NATO membership and the attempt, as quickly as possible, to impose Euro-Atlantic structures on Ukrainian land contrary to the will of most citizens. All of this has led, inter alia, to an unwarranted reduction in the size of the army, a catastrophic decline in its fighting capacity. The operational training of the troops is unsurpassed by criticism. The system of national military education is being disrupted. Tomorrow, we will have to prepare national military personnel abroad. Staff policies have become indifferent and have resulted in the dismissal of experienced professionals from the armed forces, including those with a rich combat experience. A large part of those who have been dismissed are young officers, for whom the State has also spent a large amount of money. No modern weapons and military equipment are being developed or made available to the Armed Forces. The prestige of the military service is being undermined, the nihilistic attitude towards our history is being torn apart, and the link between generations is being broken. The legislation on social protection of military personnel, veterans of the military service and members of their families remains imperfect. We have a number of laws that conflict with each other and therefore do not comply. It is painful to admit, but today, defenders of our homeland need the protection and support of society. The members of the Faction of the Party of the Regions have noted with concern and pain that the callous and formal attitude of the leadership of the Ministry of Defence towards addressing the problems in the Ukrainian army has led to a loss of faith on tomorrow and has a negative impact on the psychological state of the troops. After the parliamentary elections, the Party of the Regions will offer society, including our military, a real programme for crisis management and intensive development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Get ready. Sass gives the word to Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, Jury Carmazin's constituency, number 14 on the list. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! When I was in Dnipropetrovsk district, I promised the people that I would publicize and show the government, show the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service, the minister of internal affairs, which is a nuisance in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Here I am demonstrating with the emblems of the state trident, with the symbol of the law enforcement organs -- the shield with the sword of the Dnipropetrov Regional Fund for the Fight against Organized Crime. He suggests that police officers be invited to recalculate the funds. And as soon as they don't count the costs, then the demands start. It was already over Kuchma, and then President Yushchenko promised that he would end all of this, and these funds would be gone. Both the Attorney General and the ministers and the heads of the security forces promised us. I'm addressing you, ladies and gentlemen, as long as these funds are so demanding money, I mean calling the police, and then I have data as called for, even their work phones are written by the militias on the way back to count money. They say, "We have a holiday ahead of us." So what is this state racket? I ask you to consider this statement as a question of the MP's character as a request to the Attorney-General for the situation that has arisen with regard to the investigation of the criminal case number 0115, violated by the Attorney-General's Office on 13 May 2005 on the fact that almost 29 million 800,000 dollars have been stolen for the construction of the Hermes towing driver, which was carried out by Ukrmorport. Only 50 percent of the driver's readiness for this time, 15 million money stolen, the Attorney General's not investigating the case. What is going on? When will this end? I ask the Attorney General's Office to report on the completion of the investigation to find those who stole the money that was taken to build the Hermes tow truck from the Odessa port. I am also addressing you, Ukraine, to ask the Ukrainian Government to put an end to the deadline for the government meeting, to bring to Parliament the issue that has arisen around the construction of the national sports complex “Olympic” in the centre of Kiev. It's a great shame that's happening. The fact that if the killing of the stadium does not stop soon, the new European championship will not be seen by the capital. I'm asking you for help.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u174	Instead of Sassa Teren Victor, please. Prepare Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u175	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Today, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko did not vote because we clearly stated that we would not vote until the issue of depriving members of local councils was put into the agenda. Without solving this issue, all the assurances about fighting corruption seem empty talk, because almost a thousand criminal cases can't be investigated today because their figures are to deputize local levels. And today we've seen how hard it was without our faction to make some decisions of the Supreme Council, some laws or other, because our faction, let's say, didn't run around in toys. And as a result of our persistent question, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council has put to the vote the issue of the inclusion of daily bills that provide for the elimination of the inviolability of members of the local councils. And what the vote showed was that our faction, the Yulia Block Timoshenko, voted in full for the bill, but out of 59 members of the “Regions” there were only 13 and out of 41 members of “Our Ukraine” there were only 20. Here is the union of “Regions” with “Ukraine” and the reasons why “Our Ukraine” does not sign the orange coalition agreement. And it is clear why Mr. Yehanurov, who heads the list of “Our Ukraine” does not want to deprive the deputies of immunity. And because we were together in Maidan, we talked together about “The Bandits – the Prisons!” but today what happened was the real union of “Our Ukraine” and seems to be a real union of “Regions”. Whether they are elected or not, all people must be equal before the law. And we are deeply convinced that we will eventually get to the fact that there will be one president in the country and no matter what his last name is, or his last name, Yushchenko. Or his last name, Kuchma, this president's last name will be the Law. And as long as they are not all equal before the law, there will be no order in this country. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will insist on this. We will strive, and we are deeply convinced that eventually after the elections, in the parliamentary elections in the next Supreme Council, this decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u176	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u177	Vladimir Bondarenko, “PORA-PRP Block”, city of Kiev. I'd like to get back to the problem of the city of Kiev. This affair, which has recently begun and is on the rise, shows that the Kiev leadership has not been able to produce the documents necessary for the construction of Kiev during its 10 years of work. There is no master plan in town, one clear and clear. In 10 years, no detailed micro-district planning project has been developed. No one knows the purpose of the land. And the ground is distributed from under the table, I'd say, not through auctions and auctions, which would be logical, the expensive Kyiv land, which stands at least 1 million acres, but in the central part much more. Why do the authorities, working with investors, audit only their pockets, just what they will bring, and how much will they put into the Arsenal Club, rather than the actual audit of their activities, their previous achievements and their real achievements? I want to say that the decisions taken by this authority in the light of the conflict are of such a specific nature. It's about the fact that a commission is created from those who have committed this affair, or organized it, and it's going to look at it in two months, and it's going to come to a conclusion, and I'd like to say that it's now going to be 20 plots for its firms. Who seem to cover up the damage that people have suffered. I'm sure it's all about that unbeatable Kiev corruption. I'm talking about Ukraine today, I'm talking to the National Security and Defence Council, I'm talking to the President of Ukraine, if your words about fighting corruption are worth anything, stop corruption in the Kiev government is the capital. Take the prosecutor's brakes off the Kiev officials. Dozens of criminal cases violated by the police are stalled. Otherwise, experienced Kyiv farmers will take over your authority and continue to trample on your human dignity, as Kuchmi did for the sake of his approval. Consider: Who and how did thousands of acres of land in the wilderness of Water, in Feofani, who stole Kiev’s farms and flour mills, who took 17 buildings from state property? Who gave Kiev’s principal the right to distribute hundreds of apartments to prosecutors, BSPs, police, and judicial authorities, without penalty for many years? If Ukraine is going to Europe, there should be at least a system that would give it moral right. Today, the city’s ten - year - old Kyiv builders have built one, a reliable roof over their corruption, and this roof is made up of law enforcement agencies. This is unacceptable to Ukraine, which is fighting for the image of the European state. This is unacceptable for the capital, which has been shown throughout the world as an orange capital, the capital of the orange revolution. By the way, the Kiev manager had never been on an orange field, but the first one received all the thoughts and thoughtless orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u178	Stepan Cloud. Ivan Boki is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u179	Stepan Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Dear citizens, fighting crime is not just the President's wish. I want to give you an example of what some courts in Ukraine are doing. So recently, the court of first instance in the city of Svalava, Zakarpatsk, was dealing with a criminal case of criminal authority, a bandit. In fact, he's freed from punishment because he's been suspended for three years. I was in all the elections in Mukachev, and during the presidential elections in the Zacarpathian region, and I know that these bandits, including those led by Mr. Paulo or Chali, who broke up, were made by pogroms, robbery attacks on polling stations, and so on, when violent students were beaten in a hotel in the town of Svaliva Zakarpatsky. I want this speech to be an appeal to the Qualifications Commission of Judges. Consider the court’s conduct immediately and make a decision accordingly. And the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal cautions against further actions he has taken in his time, releasing Mr. Rizak, who is still avoiding the court, simulating the disease. And I'd like to conclude with my colleagues from the BUT faction. Dear butlers! I understand your pre-election wishes, looking good before the election. Remember, though, that on September 8, 34 members of the BUT faction voted in favour of granting such benefits regarding the inviolability of members of the local councils. And it's about bringing members of the local council to justice. I would like to ask law enforcement authorities that they have the right to hold members of local councils accountable, because this law is unconstitutional, it contradicts 80 articles of the Constitution and so do not hold back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u180	Stepan Ilkovich, do not assume the functions of the Constitutional Court, only he can say which law is unconstitutional. John Boki, please prepare for the Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u181	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! We've been here for 14 years. Dear radio listeners! As socialists, we have become accustomed to the fact that our fellow Communists, if they do not mention us with the bad word in this room, are low on their heads. We're used to their newspaper "Communist", whose leadership seems to have absorbed only the experience of harassing everyone and everything, and ourselves, rather than masturbating the public opinion of socialists, as if it were slippery under her shoes. Why don't you do as the earth runs from under your feet and the roof rains over your head? As you've noticed, we don't respond to these little bites or small calls anymore, so we have to deal with it as natural for our colleagues, as bad luck. Today, however, a representative of the Communist faction spoke of a ten - party protest against the Polish governor, our one - party Stephen Bulby. This could be overlooked by the senselessness of the so - called protest, evidently for all, if there were not one circumstance. Among these ten parties, all of the prokachms and what the Communists have attached to them, much of what they say, they probably don't agree with what socialist Bulbo-led Poltavščina is doing in the first three areas of economic activity last year. Rather than reading such protests, our colleagues would have wondered why the Communists in Poltavska were so rapidly losing their support. A few years ago, I received an answer in Orsica, the home of the first secretary of the entire company, Alexander Masenka. The local Communists came to me and said: “We will vote in favour of you socialists, because if Masenko is leading our circle, who has ruined his own farm, why should we vote for it.” If he failed the farm, what more can he be entrusted with? So it's only natural that today Masenko is “touching” by Kukobi and other crowds. Well, if there are strong cages, decent occupations and a perfectly understandable crawling to the bushmen, in the people it is called “slipped”. And until my colleague Mikola Illych Sadov's speech, I want to add this, it's a very good exercise, raising money for buying a gamma knife, but I want to tell you this. The Gamma Knife in Ukraine has been there for a year and a half, and I've been informed by the head of the chambers of account Valentin Simonenko. Only one problem is that, over the past year and a half, no experts have been found who can set it up. So you see, we're raising money, and the Ministry of Health can't handle what we already have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u182	Vitaly Shibko, get ready for Leovin. Shershun's on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u183	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you saw today that the Supreme Council was being stung by the consumer co-operatives of the Kyiv region. They made a request to us and asked me to announce this request at a meeting of the Supreme Council. First of all, I would like to ask you to consider this request and as my request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Master's Court of Ukraine. What's this all about? Today, the Pyovites in the Kyiv region account for 80,000 and appeal to all of our deputy corps to help and protect against the abuse, prejudice, and lawlessness that is taking place in the Kyiv district’s domestic courts in court cases. The entire cooperation of the Kyiv region has previously repeatedly addressed various authorities, especially individual deputies, the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, etc., with requests and appeals that drew attention to the corruption of the courts and their illegal decisions. But their conversion was futile because they had not received any decision. Since 2002, these consumer societies have been fighting for property with the Kyiv Company for the right to use and dispose of their property. And they also call our colleague, who is in charge of Kiev. Communication, from ethical issues, I'm not going to call this last name to address this issue, not in the Supreme Council, but in the relevant institutions that I've called. So, according to the facts, it's illegal to sell the property of Kyiv district. in 2000 criminal cases were committed against officials of the Kyiv government, and here they are called what articles. However, according to circumstances considered strange by the traitors, in September 2005, all criminal rights orders by the judge of the Caver district of Kiev were abolished. So when I go to those institutions that I called, I would like to get, at the request of the caregivers, the answers to that question. From the very beginning, 60 to 70 years of exploitation had been challenged by the property that was given to these areas under construction, which acts were about the exploitation of the property and were issued to these societies, and who financed those objects that were being used. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u184	Yes, Lavin passed on the word to Mikoli Shershun. Please be prepared, the word above.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u185	Mikola Shershun, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! So far, there's been a complex socio-political situation in the city of Equinom that's been caused by the problems of prominent housing. Since February 21st, near the executive committee of the city council of broken tents, there has been a continuous stuttering of the Mesquikonian residents of the famous Vienna 10th Street dormitory. In its time, in the early 1990s, the regional branch of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the Plains region incorporated this hostel into the statutory foundation of the Housing-6 company. In the following, the company’s management sold it practically with the people of another host entity. New owners have created impossible living conditions for residents and have begun the process of evicting people in court. This sparked an indignation among the residents. After all, there are many families with children among them. There are many such hostels in the city of Equinom. In addition to Vienna 10, city authorities were forced to intervene in a similar situation with dormitories at the addresses of the street. Student 14, Vienna 42A, Princess Olga 5, Vienna 10A, and others. Sadly, problems remain unresolved. Taking into account the preelection period, individual political forces are trying to exploit the problems of prominent housing for their purposes, and they are trying to get people out. The city’s own authorities cannot resolve the situation. It's beyond her purview. That's why I'm calling on the head of the Ukrainian State Department of Valentina Seminouk, the Attorney General of Ukraine to intervene in the problem that has now arisen in the city of Ravenna with a prominent residence. To study the legality of including housing with people in statutory enterprise funds, to finally stop the attacks on the constitutional rights of residents of hostels in order to stabilize the extremely acute social and political situation in the city. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u186	I gave my word to the right person. Oh, dear, please. Get ready, Muhin. I can't see. Bronnikov. The incorruptible passes the word. All right, let's get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u187	Vasily Nadrag, “The People's Block of Lithuania”. What prompted me to ask for words now? On two occasions I addressed the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, and it was correct to say that on two occasions both there were polyclinics: the City Police Department No.12 of the City of Lugansk and the City Multidisciplinary Hospital No. 7 of the same city of Lugansk, because I was elected as Deputy Mayor and, respectively, with all the party supplies, I am obliged to do what I promised people. I promised people that there would be a positive movement towards improving the health system. So what's going on? I've been writing to the Ministry of Health for four years. And until the last year of 2005, not only was I always answered from there, but equipment was also sent. Why did I do that? Because not only did I want to write because I have a firm form, but because not everything can be solved on the ground, not everything can be solved in the city of Luhansk, not everything can be solved in the Lugansk region. And I must tell you, thanks very much to those health ministers who responded and who provided the equipment, that's all that matters. What now? Here's the situation. Hospital No.12 Luhanska is primarily 50,000 people. Second. A digital fluorograph and ultrasonic diagnostics are urgently needed. 7 Luhanska Hospital. At the hospital, 25 beds were provided for the care of patients affected by the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The Chernobyl Union is asking me, and through me, all the other deputies will join in so that the necessary equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of herbivores will be available. What's in the report? And in return, I receive the receipts, otherwise I cannot call them, such as, for example, I have come for the signature of Deputy Minister Guydaev, unfortunately I don't know the name and fatherhood, the initials of U.O. “For its part, as the budget comes and purchases are carried out, the Ministry will allocate medical equipment to the Department of Health of the Luhansk Authority within the equipment nomenclature purchased under the tender and the limits of the funds foreseen for the region.” I mean, if you'll excuse me... and the expensive 12 hospitals, and the expensive 17 hospitals in the city of Luhanska. The Ministry of Health has no business before you. It's no big deal. It's up to 500 grand to Deputy Nadrag. People of Luhansk and 2.5 million People of Luhansk region. Therefore, dear Minister, respectable Yuri Vladimirovic, please deal with your assistants, because otherwise, when asked, why should constitutional reform be needed? I answer, and so that not only the MP here will be indignant, but the minister and his deputies will know who their employer and who they will answer to. The deputies will be accountable to the people and the ministers will be accountable to the MPs. And that's the kind of Filka's medical records we're not going to get back. Once again, the well-respected Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u188	Yes, Usachenko Larissa. [[The Incorruptible Passes the Word]] Get ready. Rodionov passed on the word to Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u189	Larissa Usachenko, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I have been contacted by the Chief of the Legal Department of the International Federation for the Protection of Drivers' Rights and a representative of the group of business operators involved in the transport of passengers by road, private carriers who are members of the Federation of Private Carriers of Ukraine, who are asked to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of the person and citizen in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to address the issue of the need to carry out checks on compliance with laws by representatives of the Chief State Inspectorate of Road Transport of Ukraine. In their written statement, the complainants noted that, starting in April 2005, a group of carriers had been engaged in the fight against illegal activities of the Chief State Inspectorate on Ukrainian road transport aimed at disposing of carriers from the service market by transporting violations of the carrier's legislation to comply with the requirements of road transport legislation. Restraining carriers to carry out a different type of transport, namely general use routes, unjustified cancellation of licenses for the provision of passenger transport services. With a view to taking action to put an end to the pressure on carriers on the illegal activities of the Chief State Inspectorate on road transport, complaints were lodged with the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, and the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. The Attorney General's Office has already given a legal assessment of the activities of the Head Auto-Transaction Inspectorate. As a result, a corresponding act of procuratorial response to misconduct was filed with the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. According to the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, a review was carried out that revealed a violation of the legislation in the field of licensing and that a procedure for their determination in the acts of verification is currently under way. In particular, by order number 63 of 12.07.2005, the Head Autoconspect has been revoked. The decision of the Supreme Court of the Cherkas region cancelled the specified order in part of the company’s cancelled license. In view of the above, please consider the request I have made by the MP to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the need to carry out checks on compliance with the laws by the employees of the General Public Inspectorate on road transport with a view to detecting and eliminating the violations of the conditions that are conducive to them. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u190	Thank you. Rodionov gave the word to Mironek Victor. Next. Oily Boris to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u191	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots! As we all understand, only the growth of the economy can increase the standard of living of most ordinary citizens, but the pro-Americans who took power at the end of 2004 have prevented Ukraine from regaining economic ties with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan from growing the economy. What parties are now in power, all are aware of speeches by disfigured communists, who are most consistently fighting against the current pro-American, anti-Russian, capitalist, looting agenda. They, these figures, are very cruel and immoral, by their provocations, by their open hatred of Belarus, Russia and Kazakhstan, are trying to divide our brotherly peoples, to make our blood-stricken, family-stricken peoples into divided peoples, to cover up their destructive actions with false words of patriotism, although true patriots are those who are ensuring the growth of our nation's domestic economy, the vital level of our people, the economic, social, cultural convergence of our historical close, relative peoples. By refusing to sign regulatory inter-State agreements, these persons are causing trade conflicts, petrol, gas, meat-milk and other difficult crises for the economy and people. The Communist Party of Ukraine draws attention to the fact that these individuals harm not only the domestic economy but the realization of freedoms, the rights of our citizens. For the creation of the Single Economic Space is intended to ensure a significant increase in the standard of living of the people of Ukraine, a solution to the problems of employment, the free movement of our citizens across the border, the pension guarantees of our citizens working in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. The Communist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly insisted on the need to expedite the conclusion of the agreements necessary for the creation of Ukraine's Single Economic Area, Belarus, Kazakhstan in order to restore Ukraine's beneficial economic ties, to increase the economy, to raise the standard of living of our people, but against the adoption of this, strictly necessary economy, by the people of Ukraine, the bill is voted by the parliamentary factions of Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Kostenko, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Kinaha, Pinzenika, who hides as wide as possible for Klicko. We have taken all the comments of the non-voting parties into account, and we hope that in the last plenary week, all the factions of the Supreme Council will carry out their duties to the people: they will vote in favour of a bill that provides a single economic space for Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and ensures the growth of the economy, an increase in the standard of living of our people. In this patriotism, we demand to vote just like that!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u192	Boris Olinick. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u193	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, there are indications that the Television Act is being turned around in Kabmin. In the preceding Law, as far as I can remember, it was warned that a foreign contribution should not exceed 30%. In today’s Law, this warning has been removed. Why and for what purpose? And with the fact that the last islands of the national information space are moving into someone else's hands. And then the occupation behind the scenes of our spiritual space will be completed. Or in order to accelerate this process, the State Committee has already been poisoned by mercury at the third. Dear colleagues, I urge you to stop the passage of the Law, which gives the aliens our spiritual space, and the prosecutor’s office to find out where and who is taking this mercury. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u194	Andrew School, please. Behind him is Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u195	Thank you. Andrew School, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'd like to keep going on the subject that's already being said here, say that, well, there are two things that are worth saying, that's when you know and when you understand. In fact, when it comes to voting for the parliamentary immunity that took place on September 8th, the UNP faction voted in favour of this bill by 11 people's deputies, more than half. And me in general. Surprisingly, frankly, it's surprising that one of the leaders of the Kostenka and Ivy Block is going to propose to all political forces, including the Party of Regions, it's out as it leads in ratings, to form a block. That's interesting. I don't know how comfortable and convenient this will be for Ukraine, but it's interesting, as a minimum, because in Ukraine there's actually been some very interesting metamorphosis lately, when the patriotic block is going to make a deal, the Kostenka and Plusta Block, with Janukovic, is already talking about Ukraine as a whole. About Ukraine and Ukrainian, for example, because we recently celebrated a day of language, and we still did not see how we would defend national language in Ukraine. Because we can't hear her until now. We have drafts from “Our Ukraine”, unfortunately, this surprises me, Prashenko, Ivanov and Chernewsky, who are clearly and unequivocally vilifying and practically eliminating Ukrainian language in Ukraine. Why? It's just surprising. But I'm sure I'm not the only one who's surprised. This is surprising to most people who may simply be lost in the pre-election mixed - up movements of some political forces. So I'm asking you to make this simple and clear. We need to clearly define certain principles that unite the Ukrainian Parliament in Ukraine. We have to figure out where Ukraine's going eventually. Does she go to Europe or does she go elsewhere? Whether it is, or whether we are going to talk about that in 10 to 15 years we can claim to join NATO, whether we need to understand, if we don't enter NATO in 2008, we will never enter NATO again. And then you have to make that clear and clearly say that you have to be prepared to join the Russian Federation. Well, it's good or it's bad we can talk about, but we have to say what kind of political party this is in. And when we say and declare that there will be no blockade in the future Parliament of the “Julia Tymoshenko” with the Party of Regions, it is clearly linked to the fact that in the programming principles, there is no future Ukraine in the programming objectives of the Party of Regions. They tell you how good it was yesterday, how good it was two years ago, and how good it was 15 years ago. That is why we say that with this political power we will not be able to build Ukraine. So we don't want to start building it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u196	Paul the Silent, followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u197	Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka Paul Silent. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Boris Illich said that occupation space or information space is occupied, although it's the same thing as occupation space, that occupied space. But on 21st, when Ukraine celebrated the Day of Home Language, there was a round table in the Parliamentary Library with the efforts of the All-Ukrainian Society of Education, the Kiev City Administration and the Ministry of Culture and the Parliamentary Library. Appropriate recommendations were made there. But what I would like to say is that in this same Parliament in the walls we held parliamentary hearings, initiated by the Ukrainian People's Party, language issues, the crisis of Ukrainian problems and the crisis of Ukrainian culture, is also a whole range of those very challenging problems that were discussed in the walls of Parliament and made appropriate recommendations and decisions. Whether one is executed or not? If we see today that even the national channel is progressive. The first national channel is gradually becoming a Russian - speaking channel. So I ask you, is this a national channel? And the thing is, the technology that's being worked today to take away the national channel in the Ukrainian population, in the Ukrainian nation, like the land that was being taken away, as the enterprises that were being taken, as the effort to do everything. To alienate. And the only space between who? Between Greff and Pinchuk, between the deripas and the other dereparases that are being extracted from Ukraine. This is the only space. Forget about this fairy tale, respectable communists. The only space with whom, last day, is mythology. And we won't give the Ukrainian block to Kostenka Plush, it won't let us occupy. We're going to return everything that's been robbed, everything that's turned out to be well-intentioned with UT-2. UT-3 has become, plus, "Inters," everything that's become private today. Even the “5 channel”, I note with paradoxicalism that it leads anti-Ukrainian politics, inviting only opponents of the Ukrainian authorities. Where this is allowed, in which the walls of Parliament are possible statements that are being made today. What are we doing for a breakup? If that is the case, it is understandable why Ukrainian language appears to be secondary or parallel. I believe that we should address both the President of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice and the Central Electoral Commission to remove from the electoral race those political forces that act in an anti-constitutional, anti-Ukrainen, anti-State direction. This can be the only salvation for our cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u198	Take them all off, leave one block alone. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u199	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. It is this block that needs support, Adam Ivanovich, his number two, vote and it will be all right. I want to draw your attention to such a question. It seems to me that our Parliament is just technically working on its fourth cadence. But we leave a lot of questions unanswered. The first question I would like to get an answer and a positive solution is to undo the parliamentary intrusiveness. I've already told you that on January 12th we voted in the agenda of my law, only 151 deputies voted, today we voted again in favour of this issue and collected 188 or 166 votes. Who doesn't vote? Again, those who have large funds do not vote and those who shout most to the left, who are the people. The second problem we have to solve for people to believe in us and in power is to limit the level of state pensions for high-income people. This is not normal when there are individuals, such as prosecutors, who have $35,000. Pensions, at a time when 90 percent of citizens have $350-390 on the other pole. And these same high-ranking people can increase their pension and not the state's methods, you can set aside the cost of a pile of wool and live in your old age, you're living well now, and then you don't want to make decisions. The third question is, this is going to have to be returned to the Supreme Council, when the olagarchy-communist majority brought out its legal field, because without forming the Constitutional Court for three months, that means that the Supreme Council does not live by the Constitution. It does not want the problem of government and the issue of the Supreme Council to be solved by democratic remedies. And they're pushing this power into force. We're against strong methods. We want things to be resolved in a constitutional, legislative way. We have one more question to settle. In an effort, as you know, ours have been allocated a large amount of money in the government budget to support the village. Today we do not see the mechanism for these direct subsidies and subsidies to support the agricultural producer. Today, the sown and already spring is “knocking at the door ” for every peasant. We have to answer this question, not look at it and be glad that Moscow today has banned the export of Ukrainian products and today it seems that it is only the authorities who are to blame, not the opposition that calls on Moscow to do so and it is not Moscow's fault. And the peasant is going down today. Because he has a cow today, that milk is one of the sources of this peasant's income. So let us protect the interests of our citizens, not the interests of foreign authorities. So the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy wants us to finally come back face to face with our people, not think about our pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u200	It's all right. But why go back to your faces, you haven't turned away. Please, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u201	Dear Adam Ivanovich, deeply respected people of Ukraine. Party of regions, Gregory Kaletnik. The general state energy crisis, caused by the unprofessional actions of today’s authorities, has spread to agriculture and has turned into a disaster for the village. The government, the Ministry of Agro Politics, failed to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to the situation in the nearby market. The anti-professional actions of the non-professional Minister of the APC of Baranowski put at risk the bankruptcy of the Ukrainian dairy industry, as well as the multimillion - dollar army of peasants, individual owners of cows. In my native Winnitsk region, more than 200,000 families, who were the only source of income, had the expense of selling milk. The purchase price for milk has simply become pitiful, forcing peasants to take a last step — to destroy cows. In view of the fact that the situation has been caused by insufficient work of authority and undercalculation and the actions of its officials, the faction of the Party of the Regions demands compensation for the loss of cow owners from the state budget. This will allow for the preservation of the available cow’s head and ensure that its owners can obtain livelihoods. Therefore, I ask that this statement be regarded as a parliamentary request for the acting Prime Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. At the same time, I would like to go back to what has just been said here by the representative of Butt and really agree that every political force is actually using the arguments that are the strong sides of it. And such a strong side of the Party of Regions is the actual achievements Ukraine had when the government worked under Yanukovich Viktor Fedorovich. These were the years 2003-2004 of Ukraine's highest economic and external political achievements. So the Party of Regions does not really promise to feed, but relies on existing indicators, statistics, on the professional human resources potential that is in the Party of Regions. And that's why we're looking openly into the future, and we're looking openly at the past. I think that might be the answer that the representatives of BUT are afraid to look into the past, because in their past, you know what achievements were for the people of Ukraine, which were billions of dollars that were exported outside Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u202	Yeah, we've got one more minute. Leovin, the line. His name was mentioned at the beginning of the various presentations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u203	I am grateful to my colleague, Vitalia Ivanovich Majko, for his interest in aviation issues. The only thing I can't agree is that the issue is being raised in the face of personal relationships and interdisciplinary relations with Anatoly Kinach. I marked the question a few weeks ago and China did not show any initiative. Perhaps he had chosen another way to resolve the issue: to establish his own manual commission, which would draw the conclusions he needed. And under these orders, you can destroy the object of annoyance, that is, the nation's aviation, but I might get something. Destroy the aircraft by reorganizing. In fact, the main problem I have raised is to maintain the integrity of the country's aviation on the basis of existing legislation and international standards. With regard to the desire to take the initiative and deal with China, I am truly afraid that he would start to understand me. Why? Because, as Mr. Shishkov, the director of the airport, always says, "We will get to know you." But the chain can then be traced back to who we are. Shishkov, so to speak, is unable, and given that he mentions his name in every speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-24-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! We're done. All those present in the session room wanted to receive the word “Variable” took this opportunity. The next week, the national deputies will be working in the constituencies. On March 6, 7, and 9, 10, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on March 14th, Government Day on “On the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming it” and the second question “To sum up the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2005 and the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2006”. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
