ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u1	There's a roll call, registration for the evening session. Please. [[18:18:57]] There are 308 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. I want to immediately vote on the procedure so that you can support me so that we can look at all the issues of the agenda until the Cabinet of Ministers is formed today. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this procedure, this proposal. [[18:19:30.]] For 291 This is a decision that has been made. According to articles 106, if you'll excuse me, I'm now fully in order to follow procedure, because there's a protocol escort from our meeting. The appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine is under consideration. In accordance with articles 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, as you know, introduced to the Supreme Council the appointment of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Allow me, in accordance with article 200 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to propose such a procedure. The candidates for the post of Prime Minister will be represented by President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko of Ukraine. We will not limit it in time, for as much as he sees fit, he can express himself. The candidature is scheduled to be discussed in one hour, with a presentation on the main directions for future activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, which takes 20 minutes. And it's proposed to give him 10 minutes to answer the questions of the national MPs, and then take up to 30 minutes to discuss the proposed candidate, which is half an hour to discuss, he's doing a report for 20 minutes, 10 minutes to answer, half an hour to discuss. And then the decision will be made by open balloting in the session room with cards. Accordingly, and together, the President will propose to the Supreme Council the nominations for ministers, which according to the Constitution he represents, I mean the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is a proposal that we then, by including all the candidates for all ministerial positions in the general decree, vote together. But it's going to be a little bit later. And now I am pleased to give the floor to the President of Ukraine, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u2	Dear Ukrainian Parliament! Dear National Deputies! Before I do procedural things, I'd like to say a quick word to you, it's going to be about the current situation. The opposites that live today, I hope, are part of Ukrainian society -- contradictions that don't come from the Donetsk miner or the woodcut from the Carnation. These contradictions in our society were not brought by a doctor from Montenegro or a teacher from Crimea. I want to be honest and say that these contradictions are brought by the people who are in this room today. These contradictions, I understand, were used as election campaign tools. Everything, including things that refer to national priorities, was going on. I emphasize that the creators of these contradictions are in the hall, and I would like us to have an honest and open conversation today about how to deal with these challenges, how to deal with this problem. Convinced that Parliament in every country is created to record contradictions, to consolidate the nation, to form the foundations and principles of national policies of the internal and external, in one word to ensure integrity, sovereignty and unity. I would like to say that I think every day and every place in Parliament, and 450 of them, should be shaped not by problems and new challenges, but by something like that. For example: “The Ukrainian people are good! You're great! You have a great story, you have a great language, you have great traditions. By nightfall, you're doing miracles. We're proposing to those creatures that you're doing, to add something like that, and this nation is going to flourish. Convinced that we need to create, we need to go back in time and look for problems. This is the way out, believe me. Only in this room can you find a national compromise. There is no other room. Parliament should not be a "problem factory". Parliament must be the institution that solves these problems. And that's why it hurts when people who have to solve these problems appeal after the election, after four months of elections, to the street. What do we want to ask today in the street? What are these empty tents, dear colleagues? What answer do we want to hear? You know, I remember when the "morning" revolution started, there were a few tens of thousands of people on the stage and, in this case, there were a few tens of thousands on the Kiev field. And then the question arose, how do you protect them from the rain, from the snow that you give them? The tents were built. Now we have something going on the other way around. There are tents, there are no people. It reminds me, sorry, that good Jewish anecdote, which says: “Mr. Secretary or Comrade Secretary, your order has been carried out; in two days a colossal colossus has been formed. ” Why do we have empty tents? This is a demonstration of what? Wisdom — What Can We Seek Answers? It's a myth, a legend to make course two, but not at that time. And that's why I'd like to talk now more about elections. I will speak frankly so that you, both one and the other, understand the role of the President in this situation. On March 26, elections took place. The elections were democratic. National observers, international observers, spoke of this. The elections recognized each of the five parties that are present in this parliament and party, members of the bloc. Did I misinterpret you? Is the election real? They're real. One dot is placed, time is passed by the Constitution, and a coalition is formed. I'm going to be honest, in this case, I'm going to speak not as President, but as a citizen. My soul was on the side of the orange coalition. It's natural. I knew that this coalition was very complicated, with great problems, I knew that it had been destroyed, not by the “Regions” but by the ambitions of some inside the factions, but we had to go through it. These are our political obligations. Six numbers of this coalition have fallen apart. I don't want to talk about morals, I'm just saying, six numbers and a coalition fell apart. And the question was to form another coalition. I have a second question. The second coalition is formed according to constitutional terms, yes. Let's move on. This coalition has proposed a presidential prime minister's candidacy at the right time. And I want to tell you that the President in his 15-day term in the Constitution has considered this candidate. I would like to show and refer to the fact that we have passed the right path of the Constitution. We don't have a grain of lies behind us on this road. And so I appeal to you and say: “according to the valid elections, according to the procedures of the Rules by Parliament, by the political forces, by the coalition, by the end of the day, the President has passed his legal path. And today the decision on this issue is in the Ukrainian Parliament. And in the first and second coalition, I was most concerned, I'll tell you one thing, frankly, which course the new political team can conduct, whether it can protect the foundations of a national political course, both internal and external, or whether this team is capable of protecting democracy and freedom, which Ukraine has been waiting for the last 15 years, in order to prevent usurpation of power, which has a high probability both in the first and second versions, and also, I want to speak frankly to you. Why did the first coalition deal form for more than 10 weeks, and because they were complex answers: what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're going to do, where we're going, starting with the attitude towards integration, the collective security system, ending with the sectoral issues, including the land. And my goal was from three positions that were in the beginning, to force or encourage my colleagues in Parliament to go out with one program, not three. Because to me it was a guarantee of a national course. The same was true in the discussion with the second coalition. We spent days, nights having this discussion for one purpose. Whoever took part in these discussions will confirm, never once, any party raised the question whether the minister would be under that power, or whether the vice-premier would be under that power. There was no question of personnel. We fought, in my opinion, like lions for one thing, whether we will have Ukrainian Ukraine. Or we can take a state course that's well written. And to those who read the Constitution, the laws, clearly, the concept of integration, and the concept of safe politics. We should respect how obedient Ukrainian citizens view these fastings. Because, excuse me, for sharpening the subject of federalism, you really didn't bring the Donate miner, society doesn't discuss it. I'm sorry, I don't want to offend anyone because it's pathology. No one discusses the subject of Ukrainian language, venerable ones, who are well acquainted with the Ukrainian Constitution and national laws. We have followed European standards. We've given more language to any language than we've given in the constitutions and laws of the neighbouring states. We have no oppressed nation or national minorities. And that's true. When we talked about collective security or integration, once again, the laws and the Constitution that we have give a clear answer, formulation and along with Ukrainian interest. And my task at the round table was, just in that, I realized that there were different views, more likely all of those that were meant to be put into a political struggle as instruments of this fight, today we need to take them down. And so it came up with the idea of a round table, the goal of which was to form the basis of those positions that remove contradictions. I think we did it. And all sides made their move to meet. I am convinced that after the signed document, no party has been betrayed. But for the first time, we've shown this nation that a politician can be halfway there, that he can show the way. And I'm grateful to everyone who's attached to this document. Well, by the way, I'm grateful to those who haven't. Still, it was an attempt to see us in unity, in a bunch. Because I think this is the main mission of this room. Thus, at the round table, we received evidence of the basics of the course that correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and national laws. We've passed the election, we've passed the faction formation phase, we've passed the candidature phase, we've gone through the process of agreeing on the basis of the political course of the nation. And so this was my reason for submitting the proposed coalition to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. I would like to emphasize that the Constitution does not give the President the right to a personal audit. But, I'm convinced, the Constitution gives us the right to demand inheritance, the consistency of the political course, why I've devoted, in fact, the last three months. I think we've come all this way openly and honestly. And the last thing I'd like to say before the formal presentation is that I'd like to at least discuss another scenario, because I need to try and find a legal basis for that, but as part of the cleanness of our discussion, I would still like to go back to it. Let's just say we're running the next election. First question to yourself and to all of you: do we get different political results from those we have on March 23 or not? No, it's not. In front of me will be five heads of parties or blocks, only 90 days later. I emphasize that if the legal field were still in place for such a decision, it would be possible to do so, but if this legal field was not available, then what we did outside the law would be easily interpreted as an audit of the political results of the March 26 elections. It's no longer democracy, it's a way to influence the outcome of the will through the power tools, it's just illegal. I would like to emphasise another point: this is a country in which there is no country budget in a few weeks before the New Year; this is someone's unpaid salary, pensions and social programs; this is a time when we are wasting our time in relation to the relationship with the investor -- no one is coming at this time, it's only coming out of Ukraine; it's a matter that relates to the basics of fiscal policy; it's a time that we're going to lose irreversibly; it's a matter of energy security for a nation that goes into the winter with political debates rather than resources. In short, we can get a bunch of arguments that would say, you know, guaranteed you at the end of the year would have a good sense of crisis. Now we have an anti-crisis coalition, but luckily, at the end of the year, we would have the opposite. And that's why I'm addressing the people's deputies, those who may have looked at this situation differently, those with hot heads, those with different approaches. We're different, I mean the President and the People's Deputies, in this situation one thing: you could afford the theory of the question, you could afford the discussion "What's going to happen as such? What's going to happen, as well?” And I have to be responsible for the situation that might arise in this country and I have no one else to appeal to. And so I would like us to be honest when we have this discussion to the end, we should live in an exclusive legal field, we should not live in emotion. And the last. I call on the entire Ukrainian Parliament to make a decision today. I realize they're complicated, for a lot of people, they're not simple, but please don't hide in the trenches, don't appeal to the street where your mandate works, it's already your decision. Please, I know that we are living in such a time that no one will lead you to any coalition, only your heart should speak. We're talking about consolidating national interests, Ukrainian fate, or something else. And so be sure: to whom the coalition is a coalition, to whom the cooperation agreement is a cooperation agreement, to whom the notion of a “position” is close, to “opposition” – and so you can live. But I ask that Parliament be defined. Position of the second. I would very much ask anyone in this room who is not in this room: stop the political politics of war, change the politics of war, I mean the politics of competition. This is what happens in every country. Let us recognize that the political hall is what it is today, there will be no other. If we don't understand it, but I am convinced that to such a political force, it will be the opposition of just the whole nation, the whole nation. And that's why I call on the Ukrainian Parliament to understand, and once again to weigh my great consolidation mission that lies on your shoulders. And now about formal things. According to the coalition, I am submitting Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to the post of Prime Minister. [[Applause]] I am convinced that today both the left and the right parts of the hall are well aware that we are living in an extremely interesting, unique time to form Ukrainian perspectives. I would very much like, Victor Fedorovich, to have those political forces that will share your views, the basics and the principles of politics that we have debated over the last two weeks that this policy will be successful for the benefit of every citizen and our Ukraine. I would like to ask once again that we are faced with the challenges of national consolidation, which is a task for every national MP. We should not only talk about the bread that is urgent, we should have a united nation. If we want to win the competition, including the international one, we should not have a debate on political geography, in Ukrainian history, in language, in the system and so on. And I ask you to accept this as my command to conduct national politics. At the same time, I would also like not to go out twice to this rostrum, formally introduce the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Gryzenka Anatolia Stepanovich, and on the President's quota, I would like to present the nomination of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. I'd like to ask this distinguished hall to support these candidates. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the elected judges of the Constitutional Court in this room today, and I am convinced that they will share that high mission of the rule of law in Ukraine, which is based on this constitutional institution. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u3	Thank you, Victor Andryovich, for the kind and necessary, obviously, of our audience and everyone who listens to us, a word. I invite you to speak to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u4	Dear Mr. President, distinguished national MPs, distinguished press representatives, respected compatriots! This is a very exciting moment in my life, but I am sure that this moment is emotional not only for me personally but for the whole country. We've come a very difficult way -- the path of political struggle, the way of resisting not only politicians, but the opposition of society as a whole. Finally, there's an official event going on today, when we're looking at the time and the election, and during the post-election campaign, and when we sign the university, we're looking for what separates us. When our contacts began, and they not only started at the level of politicians, but they started here, across from the Supreme Council, when representatives of different regions gathered. They also communicated, asked each other questions. What are we going to do after all? Will we seek out what separates us, or should we search for what unites us? And this is the path that we've been through lately that has convinced us that we will have a positive effect only if we look for the way to what unites us. It's unforgivable, it's not easy, but it's overcome, it's overcome by someone who's coming. We've been through it. Did we find a positive? We found out that I was convinced that this was what society felt when politicians representing the public sentiments sat at the negotiating table and found the way to understanding. This example and the first step were taken by the President of Ukraine. And I said that we were really different before that round table, but when we sat down at the round table and we started talking openly, we saw that our desire, our patience, despite the fact that we were all different, despite the fact that in different regions, as we say in Ukraine, different mentality. But we all have the one desire, to live in peace on our earth, to live a better life, to be united by our only earth, a beautiful Ukraine, because on this earth our ancestors have buried, our parents have lived on this earth, and our children will continue to live. Today, this room will address the actual unification of the two teams that have been standing on the different shores of Dniepra for the past year and a half. This step, I am sure, will bring great benefits, unity, and we wanted these two teams to be united. And we've been very open about this right after the election. After March 26th, we offered a model of a future coalition. Now we see that this coalition has a much broader format. What's wrong? Is that a good thing or not? That's good. That's certainly a good thing. We know that there will always be a discussion in this room. And if there's a discussion, there's always a search for solutions, a search for compromises. We know that we do not set ourselves for the purpose of breaking someone through our knees, but we aim to unite our nation and pursue a course of development. So there's only one thing I'd like to say. If this is going to happen, and today our coalition is going to be wider, I'll be happy to work. And I'm convinced that we're all going to work together for the whole country, for the whole society. And that's going to be a good thing. What can we do with you? We are able to make this mechanism of cooperation between the government and the parliament, which has been lacking, virtually all of the years of independence. This is the mechanism that gives the new Constitution when the government, together with the Parliament, together with the President, has the only development programme of the country, when informed decisions are taken and prepared by the government, Parliament adopts the relevant laws, the President takes the head of state in accordance with the Constitution and unifies the process. I see a lot of familiar faces in this room that we've worked with for years, almost all of the years of independence. You and I know how often the government's plans broke down in this room. We remember how the President’s initiatives did not find support, but the whole country and the entire Ukrainian people suffered. Now we have the opportunity together to create an effective mechanism where the powers will be shared, I hope that you and I will adopt balanced laws on the Cabinet of Ministers and so on, on the distribution of powers. I am convinced that this mechanism will work for society. He was missing all his years of independence. When I said that a country can't depend on the mood of one person, I didn't mean a specific president. I meant that there was such a system of government in our country. That's why we prepared with our partners, along with the faction "Our Ukraine", the Socialist Party, the Communist Party of the faction. The “Regions” faction, we have prepared proposals that will be made today in the form of a government. I am confident that this government will be effective, effective, professional and responsible. I'm willing to take this responsibility if you support me. We'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u5	I'm asking the MPs: if anyone wants to ask a candidate for the Prime Minister's office, please sign in. Are there no wanters? Here comes the recording. We've got 10 minutes behind the Rules. Please, Sergey Alexanderovich Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u6	Victor Fedorovich, I have a few questions for you. I've been transmitting in writing, but I can see that there probably won't be time to answer the letter, and I'll ask you a few questions. You know, there's been a lot of talk about the introduction of the State Aid Service 911 in Ukraine. Will this be done by a new government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u7	I will briefly say that the Cabinet of Ministers program will be prepared by a new government. This program will be discussed here in Parliament. We will be able to take all the priorities of our country's life into account. Only, as they say, do our abilities always match our desires. We will do everything for the benefit of our nation, for the benefit of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u8	Please, Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u9	Dear Victor Fedorovich. In determining my position on your candidacy as prime minister of Ukraine, I will rely on the arguments of the President of Ukraine that he has just cited and that he is asking for our support in voting on your candidacy for the post of prime minister of Ukraine. But I have a question, I think, for the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to know, because I signed today, let's say, under the terms of a coalition agreement. But it wasn't the coalition that had previously nominated Viktor Fedorovich, and I'd like to know which coalition, in what format, offered Victor Fedorovich's candidacy to the President of Ukraine? Is there a Communist faction in this coalition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u10	I answer quite frankly that we are considering today the Prime Minister's candidacy for prime minister from the President of Ukraine. And it refers to proposals made by a coalition formed in the established Constitution in a regular order, and it's composed of coalitions and communists and socialists and a party of regions. And I hope this coalition will expand and we will do it with you. I hope that the oral arrangements are working, and they're reflected even in the format of the Cabinet of Ministers that you're going to be looking at today. But, literally, to your question, I think I answered. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u11	Dear Victor Fedorovich, distinguished compatriots, surely for our political power, for the Party of the Regions, it is a pleasure that our leader today will be elected Prime Minister of Ukraine under the presidency of the President. Victor Fedorovich, you take a very big responsibility at this difficult time when every day prices go up when every day tariffs go up when everything goes down. I want to ask you, Victor Fedorovich, we will be able to do with you what you promised millions of our voters, first of all, to raise your pension to a living level and increase it. Secondly, the failure to raise tariffs is very important. And third, Victor Fedorovich, when you were Prime Minister, and we worked with you at the time, we had a very strong agreement that we were moving from cheap to high - paying labor. Or we can do this to protect ourselves socially, not with an outstretched hand, but by paying for work, at the normal level of pay. I want everything to be your government's top priority, and we will support you in that. Can you answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u12	We will certainly take your wishes into account in our program.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u13	Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u14	Alexy Kucherenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear Victor Fedorovich! Of course, everyone knows now what a huge impact Ukraine's economy is having on the volatility of tariff-setting issues, by the way, what a respected colleague Stoyan has been talking about, in natural monopolies such as energy, rail, housing and utilities and communications. And that's why politics and populism are flourishing here today. I think you know that so far there is no Independent Energy Regulatory Act. And it is a handmade body, which under the government, under Kabmin, is not an independent liaison management commission, it is not established by such a regulation commission on transportation and the JCC. I want to ask you what your attitude is about creating such independent regulators and whether you support the proposal to set up a special parliamentary commission to control natural monopolies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u15	I'm sure that the commission that works towards the formation of tariff policy should be independent. Everything provided for in the law, all the controlling authorities, the legislation that provides for criminal responsibility, the State authorities, must perform their duties in a qualitative manner. If there are incidents of violations and such information is provided and there is a need to create special commissions, this is what needs to be done. And if you create special commissions that are constantly active in Parliament in different ways, then Parliament will have nothing to do but control. Therefore, there is a need for discussion on this issue. First. Maybe parliamentary hearings. And only in the discussion will we be able to find the answer to that question. And I feel that the world’s experience must be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u16	Thank you for the answer to that question, but just for the sake of clarification, I'm going to ask you to meet after you've been elected, Alexi Yurievich, because he already has a very interesting proposal for resolving this issue, they're now in committee work, and I hope that you'll find a common approach to this problem and that it will be resolved as best it will be for society. Vassil Grigorovich Hara would like a word for a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u17	Dear Victor Fedorovich, I have no doubt that you will face this very difficult time with the great challenges facing the Government and will confirm the 2004 assessment of the best Government during the entire period of Ukraine's independence. But we understand that from this day forward you will lead the coalition government, the faction will delegate to you its various representatives, in their view, the best. I know you are very demanding not only to yourself but also to my subordinates. And two little questions. How long do you measure your subordinates in the Cabinet of Ministers for full entry, for full responsibility, for full necessity? And the second. What will you do with those who will not live up to your expectations after that time?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u18	I believe that there are many professionals in our country in a literal sense. And the factions that would delegate to different posts would naturally be responsible for these people. I have no doubt that these will be responsible people, professional people, and we will be able to create a single team.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u19	Kuzmenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u20	Thank you very much. Victor Fedorovic, I have no doubt that the coalition, from which you will be Prime Minister, will be able to report to the people of Ukraine in five years' time on progress in State construction, in social affairs, in industry, in the economy. I have three questions for you. First, there is a constitutional rule on the level of social assistance and wages not below the subsistence minimum. Will the Government you lead be in a position to comply with this rule? The second question from my colleague, Sergei Czervonopisky, is it not necessary to restore the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons. And the third question is, are you prepared to support the second stage of the polytreform regarding local self-government?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u21	Well, I'll answer the last question. Political reform, which we started, which actually started in 2006, is a necessary reform of local self-government, because this part, the first part, will not work effectively if we don't have the second part -- the reform of local self-government. You and I will make the right decisions together. This law, which was passed by the previous Parliament, will have to be carefully studied, considered and adopted. It's about social standards of life. I'm not going to comment now, which, we have to implement, and in order for this system to work, first of all, for the economy to work. So the first question we're going to ask is economic growth, which will be accompanied by all social issues in all directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u22	And about the committee he said. Regarding the Disability Committee. I think the issue will be resolved in the working order, it's already a matter for the Prime Minister, right? Then, Victor Fedorovich, thank you for answering the question. Please take your seats. Who would like to comment on the matter under discussion? I am obliged to grant such a right to exercise such a right, if anyone so wishes, please sign in. So I'm looking at 20 minutes, if you shorten your time for performances, you can do a little bit of talking and save time. Yeah. Half an hour. Please. And who doesn't want 30 minutes under the Rules? Anyone who wants to speak, please. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Simonenko's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. We make decisions at the right time, because in the new political conditions, we start to walk through the parliamentary-presidential republic. It's through the link. strengthening our community and the responsibility of certain political powers to the electorate, by increasing the joint responsibility of the Supreme Council and the newly created Cabinet of Ministers for all that will happen in our country. And I would like to tell our radio audiences, the TV audiences once again, that in the Supreme Council, in the coalition, I have united a great desire today to address the pressing issues that concern our voters – ensuring the availability and freeness of education; providing state scholarships and benefits to students and students; increasing the role of science and as a basis for developing an effective economy; promoting freedom of conscience; ensuring quality and affordable health care; improving the social protection of our children; and gradually restoring debt for savings and much more. Among the main issues that we, members of the coalition, have been identified because of our agreement: overcoming poverty, that is, reducing the level of social frustration, eliminating the debt on wages, limiting the inviolability of national MPs, increasing the income of pay, efficient use of state property. It's also a balanced policy for our nation's entry into the One Economic Space and solving the problems that we can identify in the One Economic Space. This is also the development of our good-neighbourly relations with the Russian Federation and other neighbours. Only after the referendum did we determine our approaches to our anti-crisis coalition, but only after the referendum did we have to decide about joining NATO. It's not populism. This is our profound understanding of the reality of life, this is, of course, and a great responsibility to most of the people of Ukraine, who have expressed their view of us with you. This is what we come out of when today we urge all the national deputies in the Supreme Council to understand that we should be united in human woes, and we should be united in the pursuit of the State’s development. And I call upon all the people's deputies: today to understand what the Bank's view is, unfortunately, only Majdan with empty tents. I want the cave hills of the new Cabinet of Ministers to see real empty farms and woe for our people to lay the foundation for the development of the village and our city. And I hope that the very foundation of the government that we're proposing is professionalism, responsibility, self-sacrifice -- that will be part of our victory in the future. And the last sentence. I want to ask for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u24	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u25	I would also like to understand that when a patient was seriously taken to the O.R. after an orange court, he asked about the professionalism of the patient, and who would operate on him? The doctors replied: “The most active participant in Maidan will operate.” They asked him, “Is he not a surgeon?” – “This is so, but he has clean hands.” I want us to have a clear conscience with you, members of our coalition, before the people of Ukraine, that we have come to fight for their true demands and future. Thank you. And I would like to support Viktor Fedorovich's candidacy for his post as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u26	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov wants to make a statement. Please. Some couldn't stand it, some couldn't make it to the roosts. It's going to be a vote in the room, and maybe even faster, because not everyone is going to be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u27	Dear Victor Andreevich, respected Alexander Alexandrovich, respected colleagues. In accordance with the current Constitution, we are today considering the country's presidential candidate, Viktor Fedorović Yanuković, for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Viktor Fedorović Janukovic is not just a talented politician and leader of the Party of Regions, he is a wise public figure, who is always at the forefront of the Gula, not of corporate interests, but of his political party, but of the highest interests of the State and people. Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, firm and consistent in promoting the unity of the country and the consolidation of society, advocates the strengthening of the State's socio-political and financial power and the substantial uplifting of human social standards on this basis. Viktor Fedorovic has proven himself to be a brilliant government manager: as Governor of the Donetsk Region for several years, he has given a sustained positive outlook to the economy of this largest industrial region, one can say, the industrial heart of the country, which produces more than 20 per cent of GDP and lives on more than 12 per cent of the country's population. Under the leadership of Viktor Fedorovic, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine achieved the highest GDP growth rate in 2004 in the history of an independent Ukraine – more than 12 per cent per annum. In addition, Victor Fedorovic succeeded in converting the accelerated growth rate of the economy into social dividends for the people of Ukraine. It was in 2004 that Prime Minister Janukovic made a major political decision that affected the fate of more than 11 million pensioners, when the minimum pension was raised several times to 283 bracelets. This was a real breakthrough in social policy. It was in 2004 that a strong economic system was created that enabled it to successfully overcome all the political instability reefs during the presidential elections without allowing it to collapse into a crisis and hyperinflation. Dear colleagues! Today's team of professionals in the new government under the leadership of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković, together with the President of the country, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, will join us in uniting the country, consolidating society, bringing the economy into a path of sustainable economic growth and thereby significantly improving the standard of living of people. I call on everyone to vote for Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Respectable. Honorary colleagues, as well as the state's, were very wisely told by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, that this decision would enable a country to unite and find understanding on the left and right banks of Dniper. Two Victors are one Ukraine, one and one Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u28	I appeal to the MPs: Please be quiet, so that both the candidate for the post of prime minister and the President can hear who is speaking and what is speaking. Please listen, for this is necessary. Rephat Abdurahmanovich Chubarov asks for his word and he has it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u29	Mr. President! Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Indeed, one of the most responsible points is not only for Parliament as a whole but also for each individual MP. That is why I personally want all decisions made on this day, in forming a government, in electing a head, prime minister, or head of the Cabinet of Ministers, to take place in a transparent, frank, honest manner. The Honourable President of Ukraine gave me a clear argument and motivation on his part, primarily the national priorities of a multinational Ukrainian society. Victor Janukovic spoke, and I listened to his arguments, and the candidate stressed that we, he said that, and that's good, if all of this is true, that we can all change, including clarify our positions. Perhaps all that was said here from the rostrum was printed yesterday in some newspapers, a large interview by the candidate, perhaps if all of this is done, we can really finally find points of understanding by various political forces. But a representative of one of the political forces also spoke and said: “We have finally been identified in the coalition.” Again, Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich, and I ask myself, and I ask you, this morning, I signed my signature under the text of the treaty, and I understand that a new coalition is forming, which is also proposing to the President. I've seen that under this agreement there is no representative or signature of the leader of that force, which, today, from this rostrum, has gone through Maidan, with the dignity of those people, hundreds, tens of thousands, millions of people. I'm from this rostrum, I'm going to be the prime minister, it's going to be my position, because I've been talking about the President's words and the candidate's words. But I am withdrawing my signature from this information because I do not want to be in coalition with those who will, you know, so “cow shoes” walk on the dignity of millions and millions of Ukrainians who have stood and their right to freedom and the freedom of those who want to walk on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u30	Thank you for your frank statement. Everyone has the right to speak as he is convinced. Thank you. I've already answered your question and I'm not being elected Prime Minister today. Now he has a word for it. Catherine Semenovna is handing over Hannah Stetz, so I understand. Please, Hanni Herman, I'm sorry, I'm just trying not to get mixed up with an actress.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u31	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, many Ukrainian citizens have fallen from the shoulders of a terrible burden, because these two leaders have not stretched out each other's hands today -- it's stretched out two parts of Ukraine, it's two parts of Ukraine that are closer to each other today, and we're all very happy about it. Today, many people there who are waiting for the outcome of today’s conversation asked us whether this long - term cooperation would be a long - term coalition that would form, and an extended coalition? And we told them, "Yes." We used to call them “Yes! ” with a sign of exclamation. Because we know that behind one part of this hall is the President of Ukraine, who is a great patriot of Ukraine, behind the other is Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, who always does what he promises. We know that Victor Janukovic is a high-class manager and he will bring with him a team of highly professional people who will bring Ukraine out of the economic crisis, whether it's now this crisis or not. But we know how the government of Yanukovic worked in 2002-2004, and we all know that the government of Yanukovich will lead Ukraine to even greater prosperity. We know that two leaders will be able to run Ukraine very effectively, that the trench that they've dug is going to be buried because we all know there are two Victors and one Ukraine today. So I support Janukovic's candidacy and thank you all for your understanding and connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u32	Thank you. Stoyan wants to give up, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u33	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, we have already told our leader everything when the Party of Regions unanimously appointed him prime minister. Next on the list are all the representatives of the Party of Regions, or our colleagues from the Communist Party, or the Socialist Party. So on their behalf, I propose that we stop the discussion and move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u34	Do you support such an offer? Who insists on signing up? No one insists. Then I want to sum up our discussions, we're going to consider discussions, because it was really a discussion and I'm going to say this briefly, I'm going to pay attention. You're going to be defined by a card vote. Keep in mind that we are making a responsible choice that will be judged by people according to the results of our work. It's going to be very difficult, but I'm sure it'll be a success if we work together. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Resolution No. 1241 on the appointment of Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. The text is as follows: In accordance with article 85, part 12, and article 114, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Appoint Yanukovic Viktor Fedorovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. The other one. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Here comes the vote. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[19:25:16]] For -271, for -271 deputies. [[Applause]] The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 184 MPs who were formerly members of the Timoshenko Yulia Block - 6, Our Ukraine - 30, the Ukrainian Socialist Party - 30, and the communists - 21. Let me welcome Viktor Fedorovich to his high office. [[Applause]] I declare that the Prime Minister of Ukraine's election order is signed. I'm asking for your attention. Victor Fedorovich, your seat is there, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to perform, in my opinion, a responsible and pleasant mission, and to thank the Cabinet of Ministers, who has worked until now for holding the mark under difficult conditions, have done a job that has produced positive results, regardless of the criticism that has been made in this room and is now in society and many of those elements of stability, confidence in power has been assured by the Cabinet of Ministers under the leadership of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. [[Applause]] Thank you on behalf of Parliament. Thank you. And the procedure provided for by the Constitution and our Rules should be implemented and we should take a decision on the release of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov from office as Prime Minister of Ukraine. That's the point. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. To relieve Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich of his post as Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the suspension of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Who is responsible for this order, please determine how to vote. [[19:29:30.]] For 261 Decision taken. Once again, Yuri Ivanovich, thank you for your good work. With regard to the President's proposal for foreign ministers and the Minister of Defense, we have come up with you, we will vote them in a single decree with all the ministers. And we're going to ask Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for an hour, to make proposals in the Cabinet of Ministers so that we can today and you can hold the first cabinet meeting of the Ministers and accept the weights of the administration in the higher branch of the executive branch. We have found out. Now, according to the decision we made with you earlier. We need to include in the order of the day and vote, more faithfully, to bring into the order of the day the issue of swearing to the judges of the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal to include in the order of the day the issue of the making of an oath by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Who's in favour, please vote. [[19:31:50]] For 301 Decision taken. I want to say in order of information. That by decree of 14 November 2005, the President of Ukraine appointed Campo Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Lilak Dmitry Dmitrovic, Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich as judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, on the basis of article 148 of the Constitution. On 3 November 2005, the 7th General Meeting of Judges, in accordance with Article 8 of the Law “On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”, appointed Bricevo Vasil Dmitrović, Junya Viacheslav Vasilovich, Didkovsky Anatolia Alexandrovich, Domrovsky Ivan Petrovic, Matsujak Jaroslava Vasilovna as judges of the Constitutional Court and confirmed his appointment to this post as Sryżak Andryovich. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Chief Anatolia Sergiyovich, Colossus Mikhail Ivanovich, Marcus Marija Andriyovna, Ovcharenka Viácheslav Andriyovich, Steczuk Petra Bogdanović. In accordance with article 17 of the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court judge takes office from the day he took his oath at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Bricev Vasil Dmitrovic, is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u35	The people of Ukraine, I, Bricev Vasil Dmitrovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order, the constitutional rights and the interests of the citizen and the human person.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u36	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Golovin Anatoly Sergiyovich, is invited. Please don't interfere with the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u37	The people of Ukraine, I, Golovin Vasil Sergiyovich, solemnly swear to honor and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u38	Thank you. For the purpose of taking an oath to the rostrum, the Constitutional Court Judge June Viacheslav Vasilovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u39	I, Junu Viacheslav Vasilovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u40	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Anatoly Aleksandrovich, is invited. They know who's next. Dombrovski will be invited by alphabet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u41	I, the Didkovsky Anatoly Aleksandrovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u42	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Ivan Petrovich, is invited. And Campo will be right behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u43	I, Dombrovsky Ivan Petrovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u44	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Campo Volodymir Mihajlovich, is invited. After him, Colossus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u45	Dear friends! I, Campo Volodymyr Mihajlovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u46	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Lelak Dmitry Dmitrovich, is invited. Markus will follow him. I'm sorry, I made a mistake, nothing, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u47	I, Lelak Dmitry Dmitrovitch, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u48	Thank you. To make an oath, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Kolos Mikhailo Ivanovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u49	I, Colossus Mikola Ivanovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man, and the citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u50	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Constitutional Court Judge Marcus Maria Andriyovna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u51	I, Marcus Maria Andriyevna, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine. Protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u52	Thank you. Judge Matsujak Jaroslav Vasilovna of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u53	The Ukrainian people, I am Matsujak Jaroslava Vasilovna, solemnly swearing honestly and conscientiously to perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u54	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, Judge Ovcharenko Vjacheslav Andriyovich is invited to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u55	I, Ovcharenko Viacheslav Andriyovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, and to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u56	Thank you. Judge Šishkin Viktor Ivanovich of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u57	I, Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u58	To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Stryzak Andry Andriyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u59	An oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court. I am Stryzak Andriy Andriyovich, swearing honestly and conscientiously to perform the high duties of the Judge of the Constitutional Court, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u60	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Peter Bogdanovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u61	I, Stitchik Peter Bogdanovich, solemnly swear to honor and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional system of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms, man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u62	Thank you. Thus, we have carried out the procedure provided for by the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, was present at the plenary session of the Constitutional Court and the Acting Head of the Supreme Court, Philipenko. It's a good thing we probably know less about each other in the courts, Philippe, I'm sorry. I'm a little worried, too, because this is a responsible moment. I want to say that from now on, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is fully operational. And we want all of them to be guided by the Constitution, the interests of the state and every citizen. We wish him great success. [[Applause]] I'm going to read Boris Daych's statement, and he's asking him to add his voice to the election of Prime Minister Janukovich, and he confirms because his card didn't work. The MPs who sat next to us are confirmed. We take this into account, the stenographer will show you, please. And it's important for the Prime Minister to know that you voted for him, yes. I'm asking your consent to be included in the order of the day, as we agreed in the morning, and there's a need, because today is the last day when we can in international, let's say, a sense of resolution. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Please vote inclusion in the agenda. [[19:46:48]] For 282 Thank you. He has the floor to report to the minister who is now in charge of the defence, Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u63	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies. This is the law that the armed forces and our international partners have been waiting for for six months. Unfortunately, I have to say that the draft law has undergone substantial changes, and from the six military trainings planned, 3 will no longer take place, they have been transferred to the following year, and now there are only three military trainings left: First. This is the “Kosac Step 2006” which has been held in turn since 1997 in Poland, Ukraine and the United Kingdom. This year it's scheduled from September 2 to 15, at the Zitomir range. You have detailed information. The second military training is the Ukrainian-Moldawian two-way technical training of the Rotary level, which is scheduled for August and will begin obviously if confirmed by the decision of the Supreme Council since 7 August. It is located on a polygon near the village of Ulyanyovka, Mikolayiv region. And the third military training is also bilateral – Ukrainian-Slovakia water-level technical training is scheduled for September 18-22 at the Yavorov region. I would like to ask your support for this bill, which has been tabled on behalf of the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u64	Is there a question for the reporter? Well, we studied this issue in detail, because it was the subject of a discussion earlier. Okay. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u65	Dear Victor Andryovich! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting considered a draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow troops of other States to join Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. The draft law is clearly drafted in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of Armed Forces and Other States in Ukraine”, approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the military forces of other States is provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine in paragraph 23 of article 85. The main purpose of the adoption of the legislative act is to settle the issue of the admission of military forces to the territory of Ukraine, the determination of the total number of them, the types and the number of weapons. The financial costs associated with the preparation and training of the Ministry of Defence are expected to be realized at the expense of the Ministry of Defence’s resources, without the need for additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the law will ensure the execution of national security tasks, the defence of Ukraine in the general context of the implementation of the State's foreign policy course, and will enhance the effectiveness of national programmes for the reform and development of its own Armed Forces. The committee unanimously approved the decision to submit a draft bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, to enhance Ukraine's international authority and to recommend approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine. Support, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u66	Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Are you willing to participate? Nobody insists? For the reasons of the vote, please. Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u67	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe the position of our faction of principle is consistent. We have stated this a long time ago that we are opposed to Ukraine's participation in joint military training until the people of Ukraine in the referendum are determined on the future of our external political line of entry into the military and political blocs. So a faction of Communists will vote against it. Again and again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is, indeed, a very serious question. We're in difficult geopolitical conditions. Today, we have some complications in our external relations with those or other regions. Therefore, a faction of communists, considering it necessary for the issue of Ukraine's accession to NATO and as part of the conduct of military training, joint learning, to take place after the people of Ukraine were appointed in a referendum. I think this is the principle and consistent position of our party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Number 1041 of the bill. [[19:53:07]] For 273 The law is passed. Factions: Region Party - 176, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” - 5. True, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” insists that we do not announce that this is the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, but we do not yet have another solution. “Our Ukraine” – 64, Socialist Party – 28, Communists – zero. Yes, dear colleagues, another statement came to us. Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski asks: “To count my vote in favour” in the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine because my card did not work.” Apparently, his neighbor was in the way. I'm not going to call it a last name, so there's no line. We're going to list the stenographers, and we're going to list the stenographers, but the results are, unfortunately, understandable. Dear colleagues, not this. Dear colleagues, here is a proposal for us to consider two other draft decrees on changes in the composition of the National Bank of Ukraine, registration number 1218 and appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, “Ukreximbank”, 1219. 1219, who, in order to include these decrees in the agenda, please vote. [[19:55:17]] For 234 Orders are included. Yes, please report to Volga after the first decision. Please, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs! Your consideration is given to decree 1218 on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. The decree is handed down to all. Should it be read, or should it be put to the vote? There is a proposal to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u70	Yes, is there a question for the reporter? You don't? Yes, have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Yes, then I put to the vote a decree on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine number 1218: “To appoint members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine Gorbal, Kljeva Sergia, Kolesnikova, Prosolonova, Rudzikowski, Tkachenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, Tsushka Vasil Petrovich. For the ruling of the National Bank of Ukraine Board, registration number 1218, please vote. [[19:57:10]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 178, Block Timoshenko – 3, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 4, Communists – 21. Puts the vote to the vote. Yes, please, who is in favour of voting on the draft ruling, please? [[19:57:52]] For 216 No decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association “The State Savings Bank of Ukraine” and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank” is under consideration. Registration number 1219. Lukyanov will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u71	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable fellow MPs, you are offered a decree, registration number 1219, the Supreme Council Order on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholder Society, the State Saving Bank of Ukraine, and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, Eximbank. In accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking, the 2001 Supreme Council of Ukraine Report No. 5, 6 of article 30 and in connection with the completion of the terms of office of members of the Supervisory Boards of State Banks appointed by the Supreme Council Decision of 22 March 2001. No. 2338-3 On the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, Ukreximbank. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine. First, Andrew Petra Petrovich, second, Wolinsa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u72	You don't have to, don't read, number one, you read the last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u73	Volinca Danil Mefodijovich, Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich, Novak Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich, Chernenka Sergey Pavlovich, Sheludchenka Vladimir Illic. Second, appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank” – Bogatira Vladimir Viktorovich, Bolotov Anatolia Vasilovich, Mezentsev Natal Borisovna, Sutulenko Igor Mikolaiovich, Fedorenko Aleksandra Aleksijovich, Cerkashin Sergija Viktorovich, Jurgenz Dmitr Yuriovich. This decision of validity has taken effect since its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u74	Will there be questions for the rapporteur? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Yes, please, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u75	Stanislav Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." Deputies! I'd like to make a warning. Unfortunately, we did not discuss these issues on the Banking Committee. And I have not personally seen this determination, and I would like to make the following warning. According to the current legislation, the members of the Supreme Council cannot be in those enterprises that are designed to earn profits. These two banks are commercial banks, so the deputies of the Supreme Council cannot be part of these governing bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u76	Yes, please, Lukyanov, explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u77	I would like to inform you that the National Deputies to these banks are not proposed, that the Committee should have considered this at its meeting, but the Committee did not meet and the members of the Committee on Banks and Finance signed this in accordance with article 43 of the Supreme Council Committee Act in writing on the acceptance of these candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u78	Yes, who else wants to participate? You don't? Have a seat. Yes, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u79	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I welcome the fact that today we are gradually resolving issues of great national importance that are at the heart of the consolidation of our society and allow us to form effective legislative and executive power in Ukraine on a legal basis, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. But I think you'll agree with me that further steps will depend not only on our level of professionalism, of systemism in action, but also on trust between the constituents of Parliament and the future coalition. I ask you not to vote in favour of the proposed decision, since its personal composition was not agreed between the factions of Parliament and voting without consent will only deepen the mistrust between us and sharply reduce the conditions for the interaction of the effectiveness of Parliament's work in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u80	Who else wants to share in the discussion? Yes, the discussion is over, I'm putting a motion to the vote. I repeat, sit down, please, the committee needs to speak earlier, not when you can't share any more. I am voting on the Supreme Council Order on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank”. Registration No. 1219. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:04:04]] For-187 It's a non-adopted decision. The factions. Region Party – 163, “Julia Block Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialists – 0, Communists – 20. Dear colleagues, there is no government yet, but we will expect it to be today, and there is already an offer to give him one commission. That is, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Regulation on improving the system of human resources preparation for public financial control bodies. About getting into the daytime. Registration No. 1208. Please vote. [[20:04:57]] For 180. The order is not included in the agenda. The factions. The regions are 149, 3, 2, 5, and the communists are 21. Dear colleagues, everything we've asked for, we've considered today, so, so now we're going to call it a break, and now we're going to call it a 30-minute break, and it's going to be up to 20 hours 35 minutes. And then we're going to go over the question of the creation of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to take your seats. We're continuing the evening session. First of all, I'd like to apologize for holding you until this time, because you've decided by voting, and technically even the matter is extremely difficult, because the Cabinet of Ministers, and you need to give everyone the data you need to make a reasonable decision. So let's get to the point where we're looking at things. First. The question of the suspension of powers by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being considered. You have a draft ruling on your hands. I'm asking for your attention! This includes the dismissal of members of the Cabinet of Ministers who now hold these posts to form a new cabinet of ministers. And this ruling has taken effect since the opening of the first session of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I emphasize this to focus once again on the fact that we do not have a break in the work of the executive, the executive body. So if I don't have any questions about that. None. That's why I'm putting to the vote the bill of leave of office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Please. [[23:14:35]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. Once again, I reaffirm or repeat the words that I spoke before the break, the expressions of respect and thanks to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers who worked at such an unforgivable time. Now with regard to the decision to form the Cabinet of Ministers. [[1275 Registration Number]] The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u82	Honourable National Deputies, I propose to consider the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1275 on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. According to article 85, part 4, part 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint: Azarova Mikola Janović as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. He's the key to the position of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dmitry Volodymyrovich is the vice-premier of Ukraine. Fishery of Vladimir Vasilovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine. Tolstouchova Anatolia Volodymyrovich as Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, Minister of Agrarian Politics of Ukraine Jarty Vasil Georgievovich as Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine Makuha Vladimir Alexiyovich, Minister of Economy of Ukraine Jury Vitaliyovich's puppet for the role of Ukraine's internal affairs. Toluba Sergio Borisovich serves as minister of the coal industry in Ukraine Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich serves as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Likhov Igor Dmitrovic as Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine Victor Ivanovich’s blog for the Ukrainian minister of emergency situations and for protecting the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Grizzly Anatholia Stepanovich for the Ukrainian Defence Minister. Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Police officer Yuri Volodymyrovich serves as Ukrainian Minister of Health Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Head Anatoly Ivanovich, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine; Pauless Yuri Alexiyovich is a minister in the affairs of the family, youth and sports; The cook of Roman Mihailovich as Minister of Justice of Ukraine; Yuri Anatoliyovich's Battle for the Minister of Fuel and Energy; John Ivanovich's fabric as a minister in connection with the Supreme Council and other institutions of the Ukrainian state; Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich, Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! You know how difficult it was to agree to positions in a coalition government. She wasn't just sharp, she was exhausted. We've worked with you, and I'm addressing all my colleagues and I'm asking you right now at this crucial time for our state, and I'm asking you to back me up and approve the entire list of proposed ministers and vice-ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u83	Is there a question for the Prime Minister? No questions? Have a seat, please. Is that the point to be made? Can I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the draft Decision on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[No. 1275]] Please determine by vote. [[23:21:04]] For 269 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I ask the ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, to rise in the cabinet of the government. Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic has the floor. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u84	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your support, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u85	Please sit down, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u86	I hope you and I will start working together as a large, government team. And I also hope that, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will create an effective mechanism of cooperation, and I also believe that the President of Ukraine will always do an assessment with you and the evaluation with us, and where there is a need for support, it will be supported, where there is a need for us to make an observation, we all know that there is never a mistake. But what's important is that you and I understand that only the joint work of the President of Ukraine, the Government, the Supreme Council makes it possible to create an effective mechanism. And the new Constitution has opened a new way for us. So I would like to wish that we would always be responsible for our immediate responsibilities and always be truthful and honest with the Ukrainian people. May the Lord God be with us!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u87	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u88	Let's do it again. I would like to announce an application for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and I would like to submit this application to the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council and contact my colleagues to do so with me today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u89	Give it to me, I'll give it to you. The point is that this statement, as a document, has to be registered at the Secretariat and then transferred to the office. Please, Adam Ivanovich’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Law, the law which obliges not to reconcile positions, similar statements by the Prime Minister have already been made by: Mikola Janović Azarov, Klavlav Anatoly Petrovich, Andri Petrovich, sorry that he will be mentioned to me, Anatoly, Ribak Vladimir Vasilovich, Nikolayanko Stanislav Mikolajovich, Rudziński Mikolajovich, Jarti Vasil Georgievovich, Tolub Sergey Borisovich and Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Ask our colleagues, who are approved of the Cabinet of Ministers, to make similar claims, because according to the law, you can only enter into the duties of your ministers once such statements have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u91	Thank you. These documents are submitted to the regulatory committee to make proposals for a decision by the Supreme Council in connection with the formation of parliamentary powers for those working in the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the order of work in August, we planned to work towards a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers by establishing the closure of this session on the day of the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers. That's what we've done. So let's move on to the solemn part of our first session, the closing of our first session.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Moroz Alexander Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists and those watching today’s broadcast and listening to us! We have gone through an extremely challenging path in the establishment of power in Ukraine. It's a new condition in principle when we move from the presidential form of government to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. It can be said that today, on August 4, it took place in the practice of introducing the new Constitution of those provisions, which were voted on December 8, 2004. There was a difficult and clearly painful transition of power. I think you felt it all on yourself, you felt it all in people who were involved in power, starting with the President, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, naturally and deputies of political parties, factions created by political parties. And don't be surprised people that all of this has sometimes been dramatic. Many cannot understand why this is happening, but there were no simple options in any state of the world during such transitions. Despite some moments, I want to say that Parliament has managed its mission at this point. And for that, I thank you all very much. At the same time, it must be said that before the Supreme Council, more difficult than before and in previous vocations of the task. We are directly responsible for an active government. Therefore, the legislative and executive work will be most closely linked. And people will give an assessment to Parliament, not for beautiful speeches or statements, not for popular slogans, but for such consequences in the work of power that every citizen feels. Let us make sure that these results are positive for people. For Parliament, its structures, that means hard work, professional work, preparation of issues that are being addressed in plenary mode, and hence the requirements for committees and factions. We have about 200 drafts registered. I would ask that while the next session is open, I should like to examine carefully the quality and relevance of the adoption of these bills. Check them out with programs, with the content of a coalition agreement, with the expected Cabinet of Ministers program with the universal standards that we signed. In that sense, prepare new projects. Get the committees and factions to do so. Get on your own. I'm calling the MPs. I am also counting on the constructive role of opposition. You can understand the emotional state of the deputies from the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and its leader, Yulia Timoshenko. She was trusted by many voters, hoped in, and so it is true. The faction rightly claimed power and could be a serious authority and have a serious influence there. For in it men are represented, indeed, worthy. And not everyone wanted that to happen, that's another thing. Time will put everything in place and present its assessments. One thing we have to say here and adopt ourselves: they didn't lose and we didn't win. We're partners, we're parliamentary colleagues. This should not be a declaration, but a content of parliamentary practice. Today, the president spoke about the unification of Ukraine. We need to know that unification is provided first here in the Supreme Council Hall, not by words, of course, but by people, for Ukraine, to which we are all called. I thank you for your endurance, patience, and ability to hear from each other. Give thanks to your family for putting up with new qualities. And get well in three, four weeks. [[THE FUN OF UKRAINE]] Thank you all. I suggest you open the second session to everyone to learn the hymn well and sing it all together. And now you're happy, and thank you for your work. Thank you. The next session will begin on September 5.
