ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, radio audiences, TV sets! I ask you to prepare for the registration of the deputies, insert the cards, register the morning session. [[10:02:50]] There were 366 national deputies registered in the hall, and the morning session was declared open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy, Litvinov Leonid Fedorovich, and let us welcome him. As for the order of the day today and the procedures for considering matters raised at the meetings of the Supreme Council. A meeting of the Conciliation Council was just concluded, and at this meeting thoughts differed on the organization of work today and on the issues to be considered by Parliament. However, I would like to make you aware that one proposal has been made in view of the fact that there are some political and legal points related to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. An offer was made to move the meetings to Tuesday, declaring a recess. Another suggestion was that we had the order of the day set, before that list of issues had been completed, a review of the list of issues that had already been on the job. And so today we need to consider the question of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council and the list of committees, and the subjects of the knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council. With regard to these issues, regulations and the Constitution clearly establish the procedure. By the way, one question and another does not apply to the division of parliament into coalition, and the opposition, because it's already a direct distribution of committees, it's already a matter of procedure, a question of proportional distribution that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council in the preceding days. So today we can only look at this part of the question technologically. In particular, the appointment or election of the Deputy First and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, this question is clearly set out in the Rules of Procedure. We used these standards yesterday, and today we can use them, and it is absolutely not contrary to the Constitution or the rules. So I'm going to put to the vote the motion to move the session to Tuesday, the first and the same that came forward during the morning session. And the second, more faithfully, if it does, then the break will be announced, if it does not pass, then we will consider the issue of the day’s order. That's what you were going to say, Alexander Valentinovich. Please. This is Turkinov speaking, the official representative of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Turkinov People's Deputies, Timoshenko Yulia Block. We can, in fact, discuss with you the matter of the census ruling and the subject matter of committee knowledge. This was agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, as far as I can remember, until yesterday. And as far as I can tell, no one changed the deal. There's a draft agreed decision that we agreed to take with you as a basis. But with regard to the deputy heads of the Supreme Council, according to the agreement that Janukovic here made, we have heard. That one of the deputies would belong to the opposition. And that's why I have a question for you, Alexander Alexanderovich, who is the parliamentary majority today? Who is the opposition? How, then, will you propose to distribute the substitutes? Is this going to be a situational-culular agreement that we're going to be notified of once the results are announced? Thank you. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u3	I repeat: the proposal that sounded in yesterday's speech, whether it's Yanukovich or anyone, is an offer, his reasoning. And it's up to the Supreme Council. It will decide as determined by its right, by secret ballot. So, I think today it's a question, well, it's not a subject of discussion, one. Secondly, I think that in different formats, talking about this issue and on a consensus board including, we saw different options: and that the first deputy would be, let's say, a representative of the majority, and the deputy would be a representative of the opposition. There were other suggestions, there were even suggestions that all leadership should represent opposition and so forth. You have a choice, so I repeat: this is not about the structure of Parliament, which is divided into coalition and opposition. All right. I put to the vote the proposal that was put to the Conciliation Council by Roman Mikhailovich Zwaric about the postponement of the meeting, or the announcement of the adjournment of the parliamentary session by Tuesday. Please, who's in? [[10:08:44]] Z-71 Sorry, I didn't look at the numbers. For 71. This offer is not accepted. I'm making a statement. The factions? Please, by the faction. Region Party – 10, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 1, Communists – 1. On offer or on request, he miscalculated. A series of regions - 0, there were 10 written earlier. Block Timoshenko – 37, “Our Ukraine” – 34, Socialists – 0, Communists – 0. There is a requirement for the faction “Our Ukraine” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” to pause for half an hour to discuss the issue in factions, please, together I think in this time a draft decision on the list of committees and the subject matter of their knowledge will be made, and we will be able to continue with this situation. Please be on break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u4	I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Take your seats. Two factions took a break for half an hour, and they have the right under the Rules to express their thoughts about what was bothering them. Please. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u5	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! I think that after last night's events, not only is Parliament in a fairly uncertain state, but I think there's a lot of society in deep shock. And maybe that needs some more explanation. I can state the following that, given last night's events, our political power claims that the coalition in Parliament was practically not created because it was not born, did not come true, and it did not exercise any of its constitutional rights or actions. This means that 30 days have passed since the beginning of Parliament’s work, and there is no coalition in the country. And so today, in order to speak further about what this Parliament is going to do, we need to first await a legal conclusion on this issue, whether it is legitimate today, and secondly, to wait for the President to exercise his right, if there are no coalitions within 30 days, this Parliament does not have to exist. That is, until the President has identified himself, Parliament has no full legitimacy. On the other hand, we are absolutely convinced that Parliament has no political legitimacy, because neither the Socialist Party nor the other parties that voted with the Party of the Regions yesterday have claimed to their voters that they will form such a coalition. And that's why they don't have legitimacy from voters to that kind of action. And therefore, unfortunately, it has to be noted that, after a sufficiently serious effort to democratize Ukraine, yesterday's vote has returned to the worst of its form. Now it's about Parliament's actions. The point is that the new Constitution stipulates that a coalition must be created in Parliament. And until a new coalition is created, all of Parliament's actions will be unconstitutional with regard to the appointment of substitutes, any votes and so on. Therefore, I would not want Alexander Alexanderovich to start his famous political career in office with the illegality and unconstitutionality of Parliament’s actions. First create a new coalition, and then make any decisions, and our political power stands absolutely in those positions. And I want to address the people of Ukraine again. You've got someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u6	I'm asking all the deputies. Please, we have the opportunity to express all our thoughts simply by taking the floor. Stop whistling, yelling, or whatever, you don't have to do. That's the first one. The other one. I know that the 23rd of June month was published in the Voice of Ukraine about the coalition being created. Thus, a legal fact has taken place, and if the application of Julius Volodymyrna can be considered a declaration of termination of this coalition, 30 days are provided for the creation of a new Constitution. I think we have enough time to do that, and maybe Julia Volodymyrna and I will be in the same coalition, and there won't be any questions about that. So we take into account the report made by Julia Volodymyr from two factions. Roman Petrovich also wanted to report. Please. Then Kushnarov. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues, it's easy for me to speak now, because it's worth raising my speech for two weeks -- and it can be repeated now, word-in-word, what I said then, I'm ready to say now. But by no means did the Rules prescribe the order of the first days of the work of the Supreme Council, where before the issue of the approval of the ruling on the list of committees, the election of the Governing Body, follows a clear point of the written procedure and the declaration of the organization of the coalition. Alexander Alexandrovich, I think no one: neither you nor we together – will deny that, in fact, yesterday, the coalition ceased operations. This, you and I understand very well, is another flaw in our Constitution, in our legislation, that the fact that a coalition is written, but the process of its birth and death does not exist legally. But, in the meantime, the coalition is in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u9	The coalition agreement provides for a concerted vote of all coalition members. So let us live not only in the written but also in the traditional positions that we have established. Next. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I don't want us to turn the record over right now, the Ukrainian Parliament, and the song started the same. I'm going to say those words again that I said last time: if you want a third of the hall to be out of control, continue this session, choose leadership -- and you'll see how it's going to turn out in the fall. Dear Alexander Alexander, what we offer. We're proposing that there be a call for a recess, a coalition formed, a coalition took responsibility for all the actions that will take place in the Supreme Council and in the Hall. What kind of coalition this is going to be is the will of the people's deputies. Next. The Conciliation Council must be called to make a bridge into such steps. Why? Because the beginning of the procedure right now can cause an emotional reaction from the MPs. We're just going to replace one warehouse next to you with another warehouse. I wouldn't want us to get into this anymore. So the position of our faction is now: to convene a consensus council, to make all the necessary decisions before the coalition is formed, not to do anything. Because what Julia Volodymyrna said is actually going to have a legal place. And the appeal to the administrative court that we talked about last time becomes quite possible. So let's be careful, let's not rush. We understand how a faction that came into existence yesterday is a majority, but it's not legally formed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u10	Kushnarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u11	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, first of all, I would like to congratulate all of us wholeheartedly on the fact that the orange nightmare 2 did not take place. And that's a story someone's gonna remember with pleasure. And someone will be happy to forget. Dear Julia Vladimirovna, I'm not a lawyer, but I have enough experience and knowledge to be sure that she does not agree with your predictions. First, the only and foremost: the constitutional right of the coalition is to form a government. And I have no doubt that a new coalition will be established, and it will take advantage of this right, the right to elect the President of the Supreme Council and his deputies is the right of the Supreme Council. We have full rights and grounds and the need to take advantage of this. I will remind you, in response to your projections of the dissolution of Parliament, that, in accordance with the Constitution, the President has the right to make such a decision only after consultation with the President of the Supreme Council. We have now given him this opportunity to consult. And we'll move on. And I call upon all those who are committed to constructive work, who are willing to participate in the formation of a strong, broad coalition, not to stop, to choose substitutes, to form a Presidency capable and to resolve all other issues in a consistent manner. We will form a coalition, we will unite Ukraine, we will ensure the economic recovery and well-being of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u12	I'm asking for your attention! I understand that there may be some legal irregularities in the speeches or that, I don't want to comment, because I have no right to comment. That's the first one. Secondly, the approach that presupposes that we are in breach of the Constitution or of the Rules when considering the appointment of deputy leaders, deputy heads of Parliament, is not a valid question, because we are not violating any legal norms. It was an offer to gather the Conciliation Council now, and we've just done it. Our colleagues have just consulted, and the factions have expressed their thoughts on this matter. If you insist on holding the Conciliation Board for 20 minutes, I agree. But let's make it full, I'd ask for patience to get everyone, there's no objection. In five minutes, let's hold the Conciliation Council for 20 minutes, just the faction leaders. Please gather on the third floor in five minutes to consult, then continue the meetings, and ask for patience. Please. A break of 25 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council to discuss proposals for further work by the Supreme Council. And there are a few nuances that need to be taken into account. Faction leaders stressed them. I'd like to pass them on like this. After the election of the head of the Supreme Council, a new situation has arisen in Parliament, and it does not violate the rules or the Constitution at this moment in law. But there are the political and legal features of this decision and the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council needs appropriate consultations, decisions of the political bodies, those political forces represented by the MPs in Parliament. And in fact, based on the formal law, the regulation, the Constitution, we have the right to continue the meetings, to consider whether it is the appointment or the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council. But I don't want to build any further work on confrontation. And so the faction leaders also said that it would probably be better to take a break by Tuesday, hold meetings of the relevant political authorities, decide on or confirm the functioning of the coalition, which represents the majority, or the new format of this coalition. Further, after that, the legal, legal moment of continuing to deal with the matter. I think you can agree with that proposal, despite the fact that some factions insist on continuing their work, I would ask for your support. Let's vote on the postponement of the session by Tuesday, we'll conduct all the policy-procedural actions, and we'll start working accordingly. I'm voting on this proposal, please. Please cancel the vote for now, please cancel. Well, vote yes. Although I have no right to agitate. We've taken the vote now. Need to discuss this? Well, let's talk for five minutes. Please sign up for five minutes. Please, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u14	Kamchatny, Kharkivščina, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the word to Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! I can't agree that the only legal reasons that force us to determine is whether we have a coalition in the Supreme Council or not. I would like to recommend that you look at Rule 16 of the article, which clearly states that coalition formation precedes the election of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council. Now the leaders of the two factions have made a statement that the de facto coalition does not exist and yesterday's vote on this testimony. That's why we need to take on the regulations, honorary colleagues, the responsibility, not the colloquial arrangements, the signing of the Supreme Council, we're going to test them on your recommendation, and then choose who you think is necessary. This is the first position. Second position. I remember that we had a stand-off here, and the requirement was that the opposition should be represented in the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, that's a reasonable idea, that we supported it, and that was ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u16	Thank you. He's behind him. I'm sorry. I don't see who's here. Chewchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u17	Please give it to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u18	Continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u19	Continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u20	It's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u21	Thank you, dear colleagues, for giving us the opportunity to continue. That's why, dear colleagues, until a new coalition is declared, as it will be called democratic or anti-democracy forces, we can't tell who we have most in the Supreme Council, who is the opposition. And so it will be very difficult to withstand the demand of the regional faction, the faction of the regions of Ukraine, for the representation of opposition in the governing bodies of the executive and, sorry, the Supreme Council, without understanding who we have today's declared official opposition to Parliament, who has taken responsibility for the situation in the country. That's why, dear colleagues, we insist that all constitutional and regulatory norms be implemented, or we will consider what is happening in the Supreme Council as an anti-constitutional rebellion and, of course, the whole country will know who is leading it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u22	Okay. Say it now, Frost is in charge, because I am in charge of the Supreme Council, so you can claim it immediately. Next Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u23	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Alexandre Alexandrovich, I think that I myself, as the national deputy of Ukraine until yesterday, knew who were members of the coalition. After the vote yesterday and so on, and said the corresponding two factions of the three that were part of the coalition, it was clear to me once again that there was no coalition. I can agree with many of your motives that a break is necessary to organize the work of the Supreme Council. But I would also like, like the previous speakers, to announce before we announce a break, that those factions that are now committing themselves to creating a coalition, they will announce it so that we know that from now on they have gone off about what is being created or what is being created. And those factions that won't create a coalition, too, along with those who create a coalition, would be looking for appropriate ways for the normal effective work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think we should take some factions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u24	Please, am I reading correctly, Bodnar?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u25	Please give the voice to Mikola Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I would like to express one such concern that today I have not heard the concern of our colleagues that, out of compassion, Ukraine's most prominent leader in the fight against corruption and economics -- Mikola Janović Azarov, who has been nominated by the Party of Regions and called for unanimous vote, has won zero votes. I feel sorry for this situation, of course. It takes an hour to talk about this remarkable person, to tell 47 million Ukrainian people that the entire Party of Regions is going to vote for him and give him zero votes. That's why I, Mikola Janovich, feel sorry for you. I'd be human, I think it'd be hard for you to work in the Party of Regions. Now, about the situation. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-07-m0.u28	Thank you. Since time is running out, I would like to ask everyone to consider such details. It was absolutely correct for Alexander Valentinovich to refer to article 16 of the Rules, but 66 articles of the Rules had to be read, which provided for the legal grounds for the cessation of the functioning of the coalition. And it's about absolutely specific things, three points, read what needs to be done. We take a political fact, today it is claimed that it has ceased to exist. But I need a legal form where all of this is happening. However, I do not want to put Parliament in conflict right now, because it can be artificially provoked. I'm voting on a proposal that is agreed on by the Conciliation Council on the postponement of the meeting for Tuesday by 10 a.m. Those who are “yes” shall vote, and those who are “against” shall also vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:40:16]] For 407 Decision taken. For – 407. So we see that there is a broad coalition. Against it, 1 / 1 I don't think there's any point in voting on factions. There's a break to Tuesday, 10:00 a.m. Thank you.
