ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work, please take up jobs and prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[16:00:11]] Registered in the 396 National Deputies Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, no documents or statements have been received prior to the 16th hour Temporary Presidium regarding the creation of a coalition in accordance with the question of the agenda. Who will have what suggestions? Please write down, five minutes, write down, and exchange your thoughts. The word is given to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, a faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u2	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of Regions, city of Zaporozhye I ask the honourable presidency to convey the word to the prominent leader of the trade movement, the national deputy of Ukraine, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u3	Please turn on Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u4	Thank you, fellow Sukhmu, also a prominent parliamentarian. Dear people's deputies, dear fellow countrymen, to be honest, once you've come here again, it's embarrassing for us and embarrassing for the people who chose us. Indeed, five political powers, five political blocs — one hand with five fingers chosen by the people — cannot agree. Each finger has a great meaning, whether it is indicative or small or tiny, for every nation and nation voted in favour of the program of each party: both Communists and regions, and “Our Ukraine” and so on. So why are we looking for coalitions all the time today, looking for opposition, can't we sit down to all the party leaders, five parties?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the Andros People's Deputy, a faction of “Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u7	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u8	Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of the Regions, M. Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this point of view, which has already been justified today by the representatives of the “Our Ukraine” faction, that we should not break the writings in vain. Ukraine was first tested, party-based elections, remember how difficult it was to reconcile and vote this bill, and how difficult it was for us to adopt basic legislation on political reform. So I think it's very important for us today to stick to tolerance and adhere to the standards of MP ethics so that we don't hang labels on anyone here. Let the process of reconciliation and reconciliation of interests proceed, and that is what our voters demand. I hope that in the near future we will finally form a coalition and take responsibility for the development of the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u10	Honorary Presidium, fellow national MPs, we all have enough patience, attention to resolving the question of the formation of a democratic coalition -- a coalition that will ensure the development of Ukraine along the path of a just society, through the democratization of power, through the development and adoption of the Supreme Council here in its new constitutional status and the role of the national development programme, the national development strategy. I support those people's deputies who say that we should be patient and patient, that it's not long, that the 23rd is the deadline, but we hope that there will be a rain after that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u11	The word is given to the People's Deputy, the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u12	Deputies! Of course, we have shown much patience, but much more patience, and for many months the people of Ukraine have been manifesting themselves in anticipation of our decision. I would like to see that, in addition to exercising patience here, there are some steps in the Supreme Council Hall to meet and to take. It is not clear how to say that there is a reconciliation of positions on NATO, and three of the seven Crimean District Councils continue to insist on "Crime Without NATO". How to understand that there is agreement on the status of the national Ukrainian language, and on the next day the session of the Horn of Cretaceous, the city council is also going to give regionality to the Russian language. I would ask practical steps to meet each other, otherwise there will be no trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u13	The word is given to the national deputy Samofalova, the Party of the Regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that you and I have come a long way in the campaign and have told people mainly what they wanted to hear from us. Unfortunately, there have been very difficult situations in our country since the elections. Today, only time has gone up sharply for food, gas, transport and so on. Today, we hear much from the Government that there are ways of providing subsidies and improving lives. In fact, no one has yet said where the budget line is, which provides for grants, which item to take. And all this is happening because Parliament is not working today. Therefore, I believe that Parliament must today choose the leadership of the Supreme Council and begin its duties as popular electorate, the functional responsibilities of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-20-m1.u15	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. In the morning, we heard statements by all the factions, and now you've had an exchange of thoughts, and the situation hasn't changed. During this time, we held a meeting of the provisional Presidium and now the evening session is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
