ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u1	Yes, please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:28]] There are 388 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Out of procedure three minutes, please log in. On the board is the name of the MPs who signed up. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u2	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, there is a proposal, since the situation in the country is really not simple in terms of meat production and when we go back to the districts and regions next week. Therefore, the faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine” really calls for some way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to be able to bring to Parliament, to listen to the government's responsibilities on this issue, because every day the situation becomes more difficult and the villagers are extremely concerned and for this Sunday we have practically not heard from the government, and we, as national deputies, have not made any decisions on this matter. So there is such a request to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we should do something about this in Parliament and make some appropriate decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u3	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u4	Please pass the word to your colleague, Sergio Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u5	Sergey Hira.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u6	Thank you. The Communist faction insists that this week the 9029 ruling on the situation in Alchevsk be considered. Work is being done, but it is not a secret that there are many more problems there today than there are solved issues. We have to take part in this because my countrymen are very afraid. The spring will come, it will warm up a little bit, and the problems of this city, which gives a large part of the budget of the Luhansk region, will be forgotten and will remain. I very much ask that tomorrow, when we will obviously address the issues of communication as a whole, this regulation on specific assistance to Alcevski, which Parliament can provide in these circumstances, be considered and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u7	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u8	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we voted in the first half of our work that we will now consider Law 8683-1 concerning the possibility of overcoming the veto under the Children of War Act. I think we're going to be looking at it today. But as you can see, so far our deputies are meeting with thoughts. So maybe now I'd like to consider a very important bill 0324, 0325. I think he has no doubts about the ratification of Protocols 12 and 14 of the Convention on Human Rights. Because in the Council of Europe all the time, you're driving, you're reminded whether you've ratified or not, because all countries, 46, have to ratify, and then this convention comes into force. And you know how this convention is needed for Ukraine especially at this time. So I would ask and this is the question that we're asking about the children of war, and it's now to vote, it's no discussion, the more I'm the reporter, and I'm going to say that everything can be voted on, no vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies. Paul Sulkowski, referring to the agro-industrial complex. We made a deal, fellow officers of honor. and the decision made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we will have a plenary meeting on Tuesday, and we will consider the situation in a comprehensive manner in the PAC, but to do so we need, together with the government, to work out appropriate proposals with the government. As far as milk and dairy products are concerned, we have laws that are appropriate, let's make a decision that the price of milk should be, let's say, a certain percentage of the price at which the product is made. It's said to be administrative, but let's now make this decision to protect the original producers. As for the issue that Sergey Hire has raised, we're going to be looking at the housing and utility situation tomorrow, and we're going to take other decisions and proposals that apply specifically to Alcevska, because Alcevsky's processes have served as an impetus for us to look at it. I mean, we're going to look at all the documents that apply to this area. And with regard to the law that the President of Ukraine applied the veto, that's Law 8683-1, I think we're going to consider today. [[Children of war]] With regard to ratification, we will now hear information, as we agreed, at 16 o'clock the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the state of preparation for the election of the National Deputies and Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. And after that. To the will of the Supreme Council, we will consider all these other questions. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, we will now hear information from the head of the CBC. The head of the CEC suggests that we give the information in 10 minutes, 15 minutes -- answers to questions. 15, 15, yeah? Come on, 15, 15. Then we have to accept the changes, there's the point, there's the necessary changes to the election laws. Now these documents are multiplying. They're working together with the Central Electoral Commission and our profile committee. No warning? Jaroslav Vasilovich, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Honourable and Honourable Voters! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to Parliament for the opportunity to speak out of this rostrum with information on the urgent problems of the electoral process. I hope that you, honourable national deputies, will understand the importance and urgency of resolving the issues that have been raised, since many problems need a legislative solution. From now on, there are exactly one and a half months to the day of the election of Ukraine’s national deputies and local elections. This is too small, believe me, and the work of the organizers of the elections is still extremely large. Today, its epicenter has moved primarily to areas in the region, to district election committees. They should ensure that the best possible work is done in an orderly, efficient, uninterrupted manner, in strict compliance with all the requirements of the law. I inform you that since the announcement of the electoral campaign, the Central Election Commission, including the interaction or assistance of other subjects, has carried out a wide range of legislative electoral procedures for the preparation and conduct of elections. The main ones are the formation and refinement of general voter lists, the formation of territorial constituencies, the registration of candidates for the Ukrainian National Deputies from the parties and the blocs. Today, 45 subjects of the electoral process are registered. The 8th political forces have been denied legal grounds. The total number of candidates participating in the elections is now 7683. In time, the composition of the District Election Commissions was formed, up to 225 of these committees being made up of 4,000, 50 people with proposed parties, blocks of more than 6,000 candidates. In doing so, the commission complied with the requirements of the Party Rights Act for a proportional portion of each category of management positions in district election committees and the conditions for maintaining an approximately equal number of management positions. Regrettably, the legal order for the formation of district election committees after the parties were submitted revealed a number of significant problems. The point is that the individual parties, the constituencies, have approached the nomination of the district election boards and the appointment of candidates for leadership is extremely irresponsible, otherwise you won't say. As of today, 248 members of district commissions, including 37 commission heads, 23 deputy heads, and 40 secretaries, have been suspended. It is not necessary, I think, to explain to anyone today how this has a negative impact on the organization of the work of these commissions, especially at the beginning of their work, when these commissions were to be registered as legal persons, to form electoral offices. And now we're going to set up district election committees and move forward. In fact, each party, or block, has either replaced one of their representatives on the boards. A good dozen of these are substitutes for 10, 20, or more. There are many substitutes for the same vacancy. For example, in the territorial constituency No.88 is the Kyiv region, and the leader of the Labour Ukraine party has changed three times. The same was true in other cities, especially in the city of Ternopolis, where one commission head was appointed in the morning, another one in lunch, and the other one in the evening. There are now 70 vacancies in district election committees, including today there are no three commission heads, seven deputies, 12 secretaries and more than 50 members of district election committees, these facts speak for themselves. How can we organize the work of commissions there today? In fact, we have a situation in which the right to form the composition of the election committees is exercised by the subjects improperly. Unless it is said that there is an irresponsible exercise of such a right and the abuse of such a right. It was suggested that the district commissions were made up of candidates who refused to participate in and personally filed an application for such participation, i.e. signs of the falsification of election documents and the use of such documents. The Central Electoral Commission has already sent a request to the Attorney General’s Office to verify a number of such facts. As a result, it is quite possible to predict the emergence of a similar problem and the formation of a divisional election committee. This is the very fresh fact that I just got off the phone with: in the 102th constituency, this is the city of Lugansk, there's not enough 140 people in the minimum composition of the district election boards, so it's impossible to even form a minimum number. What sort of drawing can we speak of today, fellow believers, distinguished national deputies? Which organization of work can be talked about by the electoral boards when there is no one to hold the competition, there is no minimum number. So who's going to organize the vote? And these facts are not only in 102th district, but in many districts, unfortunately. In general, I would like to stress that there is an overly disturbing trend in the question of formation as constituency and the formation of electoral committees. It is well known that the legislator has changed the requirements for the formation of polling stations, particularly in part of the maximum number of voters in which a polling station can be formed. In general, the number of voters in the polling station is 2,500. Once upon a time, I recall there were 3,000. In determining the maximum number of voters, the legislator took into account the previous experience of the election of national deputies. And it was those voting problems in many polling stations where, because of the presence at the polling stations of a large number of voters and the voting process itself has slowed down, many voters have failed to vote at all, causing fair indignation at the neglect of their constitutional election rights. On March 26, the situation may be somewhat repeated, since the relevant authorities of local self - government and their officials, including rural, rural, urban, city heads, who are legally subject to application to district election committees for the establishment of electoral districts, have been irresponsible in determining the number and boundaries of the polling stations. This is because as early as October of last year, the Central Election Commission had asked the leaders of all government administrations, rural, rural, urban heads to take into account legislative novelties and to address the issue of the establishment of electoral areas, to ensure that as many of them as possible. According to our previous estimates, meeting the requirements of the law to reduce the maximum number of voters in the field would lead to an increase compared to the last presidential elections in Ukraine by about 3,500. In this case, the total number of polling stations was over 36,000. However, according to the District Election Commissions, the actual number of areas increased by only 600. In doing so, 275 polling stations are made up of over 2,500 voters. And in the city of Raven there are areas where the number of voters is over 3,000, the distinguished national MPs, over 3,000, I emphasize. A similar picture in Kiev, Herson, Johno-Frankiv and many other areas. This means that the legislative approach proposed to solve this problem in practice has not been properly applied. Now the situation will have to be rectified directly on the day of the vote at the polling stations themselves. It may only be corrected by means of a clear organisation of the voting procedure. That is, on the one hand, the coordinated and operational actions of the members of the commission, on the other hand, understanding the problem of voters who will come to the vote and helping them to resolve the problem with tolerance and tolerance. But that is the problem, and we should talk about it out loud today in order to work together to ensure that voters are able to implement their constitutional right without hindrance. Honorable national deputies are known to have a new approach as defined in the law to the formation and generalization of electoral lists. This work was done by the commission and the working groups of the electorate in a timely, predictable manner. It may be reported that the working groups of voters included 36 million 808 thousand voters in the specified general lists in the election of Ukrainian national deputies on March 26. By comparison, the total number of voters on the electoral list for the election of the President of Ukraine was 37 million 657 thousand. So the decrease is 849,000 voters. The voter turnout was the most significant: Donetsk Region – 160,000, Kirovograd Region – 70,000, Lugansk Region – 69,000, Dnipropetrovsk Region – 64,000, Lvivska Region – 61,000, Vinnitzka – 54,000, Žitomirska – 48,000. The main reasons for the decrease in the number of voters explained by the electoral working groups are these. Exclusion of dead citizens, exclusion of multiple cases of citizen involvement, as well as a particularly more effective approach to the compilation and refinement of electoral lists, and active collaboration between working groups of voters with executive authorities and local self-government. The number of voters unable to move on their own today is 588.5,000. That is, much less than that in 2004-2005. The implementation of the electoral rights of such voters should be ensured properly, as well as the organization of voting for disabled voters in polling stations. An analysis of the voter lists submitted to the CLTC shows that we have a sharp decline in the number of multiple entries, and so there should be no doubles on the day of the vote. However, with the voter lists, we already have a problem that can have a significant negative impact on the organization of voting and thus on the implementation of the electoral rights of citizens. It's a paradox, otherwise I can't call it a legally binding paradox. In a figurative sense, the legislator broke out two tunnels behind which the voting process would take place. He predicted the presence in the polling stations of two lists of voters. One to vote on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the other to vote on the local elections. It's never been like this before. Elections to parliament and local self-government were always held on the sole voter list. And this in terms of rationality and optimal voting was absolutely justified. Although today someone is the least involved in making lists of voters, he will agree with me, and he understands it well. And let me be honest, this isn't the first time I've run an election organization. The logic of the legislator regarding the formation and use of two lists of voters at the same time as the parliamentary and local elections is difficult to understand. In any case, there is a great need, a great problem that needs to be solved. Logically, a legislative problem would have to be solved in a legislative way, for otherwise it would not have been possible to correct it. At the same time, a return to one voter list will require a change in the whole concept of making and using electoral lists, i.e. a systematic change in many of the provisions of the two laws, bringing them into strict conformity. This is to be taken into account, and that the process of compiling voter lists has now reached the logical stage of signing them by rural, rural, urban, and other local authorities. As far as the Central Election Commission is concerned, we continue to believe that it would be appropriate to conduct the electoral process on the sole voter list, but we understand that we cannot change the situation today. The above-mentioned problems of organizing and preparing elections are faced with a number of other problems that may affect the voting process and its outcome in the population. One problem is the definition of the content of the ballot. The first law stipulates that an empty square for holding an election should be placed on the left hand side of each party. At the same time, the legislator clearly did not determine whether a number is placed in the ballot next to the name of the party at which it is placed in the ballot. Everyone understands the meaning of the fixation of the party number, so there can't be a correct decision about it. In any case, there is today a need for editorial clarification of the provisions of part four of article 78 of the People's Deputies Election Act, which will remove the existing diversity of the law. A professional committee also saw the inaccuracy of the law in this section and agreed to redecorate part of the fourth article. So there are requests for you, honourable national MPs, to uphold such an amendment to the law. An urgent change is also required by the law, which provides for the production of information posters at least as many as five copies per poster for each polling station. Of these, no less than three copies should be passed on to each polling station and the rest to the appropriate political party. Thus, for each polling station, it is envisaged to be made. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u12	make 270 posters. Dear National Deputies! Even for such a 200 - voter area, 600 tons of paper is needed to produce such a number of posters. From past electoral campaigns, you know very well the fate of this product. Therefore, the centurion proposes changes to parts of article 67 of the Law for the purpose of the budget economy: “The Central Electoral Commission shall provide in the same number of party information posters and settlement blocks at least two copies of each poster for each polling station. Our position on this issue is also divided by the parliamentary committee, since everyone understands that this solves the problem of placing such posters in polling stations. Because not only the walls but also the ceilings of the constituency may be enough to accommodate the amount provided for in the Law. You have to put 90 posters on each site. In addition, we are completely painless for the efficiency of the electoral process, including pre-election agitation, and in addition to several million dollars that can be sent to increase the salaries of members of the commission for their work on the day of the vote. Because they're going to keep working a few days, and they're only going to get 18 bucks. But for 18 bracelets and a cup of tea in three days, you won't be able to buy it. Another important change, which was agreed upon by the PSC, is to make changes to the sectional electoral committee's voting record and to the district electoral committee's voting summary protocol. The positions of these protocols today vary and are unacceptable. There are problems, as always, with the financing of elections. According to accurate estimates, there are 42 million missing local elections for the local election boards of all levels to be held. The need to increase state budget subsidies to local government budgets for local elections is primarily due to an increase in the number of expenditures on advertising and the production of local ballots, I stress, local elections. I hope you will support our well-founded proposals on this issue. I would like to draw particular attention to the material and technical issues of the electoral process. Article 54 of the Law on Elections of National Deputies of Ukraine stipulates that executive authorities and local authorities, their officials are obliged to assist electoral commissions in the exercise of their powers, to provide them with the necessary facilities for transportation and communications, equipment, inventory, or equipment. This rule is also defined among the main tasks and the corresponding decree of the President of Ukraine, which we consider to be an important document, which means the organization and conduct of today's electoral campaign is assigned the highest category of national importance. However, not all leaders have yet come to appreciate the importance of implementing this document and their personal responsibility for ignoring its requirements. For confirmation, I want to give you an example like this. District Election Commission No. 88 of the city of the Lord of Kyiv County is housed at the Children’s and Young People’s Centre, where children’s groups begin their work after 13 hours. There's no noise, no noise, no temperature in the room. Retainees, in particular her head, do not respond at all to the demands of the District Electoral Commission. I emphasize the legal and just requirements. Of particular concern is the fact that the state of computer technology and hardware that commissions provide does not meet the extent and requirements of the relevant decision of the Central Electoral Commission. On February 8, this full list is provided by only 225 11 district election committees, honourable national deputies, partially - 136, who are not provided with our data by the 17 district election boards, in particular. In Gitomirsky, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kirovograd, Lvivsky, Mikolai, Odessa, Ternopil and Cherkas. And the District Electoral Commission No. 214 in Montenegro has so far no telephone contact. Who will be responsible for this? By the way, it's the world-renowned town of Nizhin. The cucumber monument is ready to be placed, and the commission will not be able to make telephone calls to the district election commission. In summary, I would like to stress once again that today's electoral process for election organizers is making the issue of legislative, organisational, financial, material and other nature significantly more difficult. By the efforts of one Central Election Commission today, they will not be solved. This requires the desire and appropriateness of all those subjects who, by their status and competence, are obliged to resolve these problems. This also requires understanding on the part of all subjects of the electoral process, particularly key ones such as political parties and electoral blocs. I am deeply convinced that all the problems that arise in the electoral process can be solved if there is a will and a desire to solve them. So I call upon everyone on whom it depends to resolve these issues, to discover such will, to make the necessary decisions, to cooperate constructively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u14	Thank you, Your Honor, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u15	Questions, respectable colleagues, 10 minutes, please. Sign up. Ah, 15, yes, we agreed 15. Please give me the name of the National Deputies. Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u16	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, you've really shown a dangerous election situation. And this suggests that the new authorities may want to overthrow these elections. But I have a different question. Today, the president, speaking, called on the political forces to understand. As in your view, the slogans that the bloc carries, the President's name, the Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine": "The Bandits are prisons!", they rush to power and so forth. Will they contribute to the consolidation of society? Do you think they will or will they not? And the second question is short. The prime minister at the head of the block is coming, the ministers are on the list. Please tell me, if these people don't take a vacation, will you take them out of the race? What does the law say about this? We think they shouldn't be headed unless they take a vacation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u17	Alexander Mikolaiovich, you've been very emotionally asking questions. First question. Sadly, more than one authority depends on the solution. And from the political parties, and from the authorities, and this, of course, from everyone, and from the national MPs, is organizational security and everything. You see, today we've come two thirds of the way to the election process. Where do you see a violation of the law on the part of the authorities? On the contrary, we have announced a warning to the Minister of Justice, and the court has annulled, seeing even the overcoming of the punishments we have imposed by the Central Electoral Commission. That's the first one. And the second question that you asked about. So you, Your Honor, were also a number once in “For the One Ukraine” and also knew that you were on lists both ministers and various other officials. Let us today be tolerant about this issue and think about how we can hold elections, how we can provide an organisational and technical part, how we can decide today to form committees where we rely on political parties, and unfortunately they don't do what they can and are obliged to do. And what we're going to do is we're going to take a picture of what doesn't meet the requirements of the law, if there's any such appeal, that the Central Electoral Commission is going to make decisions and let us think constructively today that we have to do what we have to do to make changes to the law, first of all, and we're going to make sure that these issues are resolved. These aren't all of them I've raised today on behalf of the Central Electoral Commission in front of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u18	Yes, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u19	Thank you. Please pass the word Mishuri Valery Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u20	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u21	Mishur, the Communist faction. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, there is such a figure that almost 7 million of our employees work abroad. They account for 348,000. I didn't think these more than 6.5 million would come back here to Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the person of one of the deputies says that we will ensure that not only those who are on consular leave but also those who work there illegally abroad vote. Whoever comes to the precinct will vote. How the Central Election Commission can first react to such a grave violation of our legislation. This is the first time. It's different. Why it is the deputy minister who degrades our international authority in Ukraine, saying that illegals will vote there. And in thirds, it's an open way to manipulate elections in a foreign district.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u22	Dear Valery Dmitrovicz, above all, there is an order of voting in the country that will be included in the voter lists, and I reiterate that they are included in the voter lists in accordance with the law, not in other ways. I think the deputy minister of foreign affairs has called for proper legalization, for the Consular Account, and for the opportunity to vote. From the experience of last election campaign of 300,000 and 20,000, almost included in lists of voting abroad, I voted just over 100,000. Let's work today so that we don't have any illegals, let's work on, of course, so that they're all legalized, included in the voter lists and have the opportunity to vote legally. I am absolutely agreeable with you and the Central Election Commission is determined that, irrespective of whether it is in Ukraine, or whether it is abroad, election ballots should only be given to those voters who are legally included in the voter lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u23	Yes, Basil Nadrag. The faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u24	He's transferring the right to speak to Oleg Zarubinski. Please, it's Oleg Zarubinski's microphone. Check the card, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u25	No, it's okay, thanks. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “The People’s Block of Lithuania”. I have two questions. You know very well that the most potential, or hypothetical, forgeries can be around people who will not be in Ukraine on March 26, even more in polling stations. It is clear that voting by their party associates, their heads, their neighbors, and so on is not legitimate. The president of Ukraine said that up to 7 million people are abroad. What I'm talking about is east and west, not regional. Does the CEC see real preventers that the biggest forgery, which is a distortion of real will, does not happen? And the second question is, don't you think it's appropriate for a whole series of ballot papers to be harmonized or unified? Yeah, yeah, just to unify the number of constituencies that would be the same in all the ballots, at least for those parties and blocks that participate in all the elections, at all levels, so as not to confuse voters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u26	Thank you. Very interesting questions. The head of the Central Electoral Commission cannot think on hypothetical terms, that's the first. I can tell you that only the voters who will submit the document will vote and receive the ballot. We are well aware of the lessons of 2004-2005, when we received three years for the issue of two ballot papers, I emphasize three years of restrictions of will. I don't think there's gonna be a lot of volunteers today. But we will also have enough observers in the polling stations to monitor this process. As for the other issue, we are holding two elections today in parallel – the election of national deputies and the local elections. There's lots of political parties going on. Here, unfortunately, it's impossible to regulate the procedure today, and under one issue they can't be unified in both the ballots and the Supreme Council, and the same. Because these are other procedures, a different format for the formation of these subjects, blocks there, political parties. Let's go now, let's let this cart move as it's already set. Because if we start changing this procedure now, then we confuse the electorate completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u27	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Boris Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u29	Boris Bespallium, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u30	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter! These elections are now being held at the same time, and perhaps there will be particular problems with the organization of local elections, since there are no, perhaps in different regions of the same methodological approach and so on. So my first question. The Central Election Commission has great experience. What specific types of methodical help do you consider most important for the local elections that you will add, where you may need help from other institutions? And the second. It is not a secret that when commissions are formed on a political basis, individual members of election committees simply or many do not perform separate functions for political reasons, just such forms of strike. Are there sufficient means of influence in the Central Election Commission for such unwitting people? Perhaps you would suggest that there be some change in the legislation so that there are no such strikes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u31	The first question I'm going to answer is this. Today, education is organized in all areas without exception, with the help of some unpopular international organizations, as some believe. But believe me, today they are giving us very serious help in organizing training for all without exception in the regions. The same is true of representatives who are included in the local election boards for the organization of local elections. As soon as possible, we are the Central Election Commission, seeing the order of 60-90,000 laws on local elections, which unfortunately are not enough today. And I know I'm going to have a problem with Mr. Simonenko, Valentin, I mean. Costinovich. But we'll do it. Because it's not really in place, and the state doesn't care about it. And with regard to other forms of learning, political parties can join in, the main ones can organize the audience, and we can provide a lecture. With regard to another question, as you say, regarding strikers, we today, grant God to form a minimum number of district election committees. This is a problem for the state today. And I think that I've talked to you from this rostrum a number of times before, and we're going to move on to professionally trained people who are going to do some training, training, have a certificate, get some money for it, and organize an election. But we urge you today, and I urge you to advocate, to advocate that our members of the district and district election committees and territorial committees be not engaged under a certain political power. And if anyone is involved, the prosecutor will help change his point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u32	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u33	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, in your report, you speak of such serious things that many MPs are afraid that not only rural areas will not be made up, and in the CBC no one will want to be the head or deputy of the head, that is our problem. I have a question. Whether there are any important parties that commit to participating in an election campaign year after year or every time, preparing such images and keeping them in a mobile state. This time. And the second. Why don't you ask about the law on the creation of a truly professional staff reserve of unpoliticized, uninvolved election organizers with legal education. In many parts of the world, courts conduct elections, as you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u34	Really, Oleg Grigorovich, you asked a very interesting question. Announce the competition for the head of the CBC, you'll see what a big turn it will be. It's not a problem today, holy places are not empty, you know that. As far as the question is concerned, really, believe that we didn't have the opportunity, we from the elections, literally from the wheels, we re-entered the election campaign. And this Central Election Commission, I think, is going to be working forward in the inter-election process for these three years, on what it's going to be dealing with, and will be able to organize appropriate courses, the appropriate learning center, and in time for future elections, to teach together with political parties, to prepare a good human potential for law-based, politically-unbiased people who are going to hold elections in the future. You're right. It is time for us to go to world standards, and Ukraine has every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u35	Sergei Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u36	Matvienkov, 55th District, Socialist Party faction. Dear Jaroslav Vasilevich! That the law is raw, absolutely raw, I don't think I can tell you. And today, all those in charge of the elections have faced this problem with their eyes. Both the establishment of lists, and when the chairpersons of the commission that we have elected on lots in the field have renounced their functional responsibilities, and the alternates, the secretaries, who have been completely incompetent and unprepared for this work. I have two specific questions for you. Question one. Double list. Can we take any steps today to remove or remove this matter in order to correct this moment in the course of the week? That's the first question. And the second question. Do you not think that, to date, after the elections, the country will be struck by the stripes of the courts, when the lost political power will seek by any means, using the imperfections of the law, to abolish the results of the elections on certain sites? When we are placed in a situation where it becomes an unmanaged process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u37	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, you really are. I agree with you absolutely 100% that the law is Syrian, we hold the third time in Ukraine that the election of national MPs is mixed or proportional, or now the basis is completely proportional and completely in the new law. But he was born in this room, and we never take into account the bitter experience of the last election campaign. It's really time for us to go to the Electoral Code. This is indeed a matter of questions, and the Ukrainian Electoral Code is needed. And as for the question, what. The parties and the courts. It's from you. The political will of you to limit the terms of the charges, as was once beautifully prescribed in the 2002 law. To limit the time frame when it is possible to sue and complete this procedure, since the tracks will continue throughout the summer and in the election of the national deputies, and in the locals, I am afraid to think about what will happen today. I think so. But there is still time, but to do so it takes, once again, the political will of Parliament to limit the terms of the charges. The procedure of consideration, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u38	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u39	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich. I have a question for you. What about those 7 million? voters who will not be in Ukraine on election day? Passports here, in Ukraine, are illegal abroad. Who will vote for them, whose reserve is this, and how will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u40	I'm asking you a question: and you counted them as 7 million.? First of all, no one's counted them today. I'm not defending anyone, no political power, and you have to understand that. We used to say that we have a few million people who can't come to the precinct, actually 585,000. Today, let us live in reality. We have the opportunity to control the electoral process in Ukraine with the help of observers and we have the law's standards so severe and criminally responsible today, and the administrative responsibility that I am stressing today, I doubt that anyone is at risk for any forgery. But let's think about how to get out of this situation. How? Together. At least today, there are lists of voters that are composed, real lists of voters. There are board members who will issue election ballots, they represent different political powers, and I don't think today there will be insinuations around the issuance of election ballots not specifically to the electorate who has the right to receive according to the document. Although there is a problem and there is work to be done around it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u41	Jaroslav Vasilovich, thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed with you, we have asked for your attention, and we have arranged for the Conciliation Council to review the information of the head of the CWC, and we will amend some of the laws of Ukraine relating to the election. The project is given to you by this document. So we need to put this document in the agenda. I ask you to prepare for the vote. A vote is taken on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Bill of Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 9068. Please vote. [[16:47:50]] For 365 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The main novelties proposed in this law are the organization of adhesion products. And second, respectable colleagues. This is the order in which the names of political parties are placed. It's suggested in such a way that it's to be clear. The first will be the political party number, then the place for a person to decide about the vote, and then the full name of the political party, the political bloc. In this way a person will know what number he prefers, see the number, check the name, and immediately determine the support. In the end, there will be room for a person to point out that he does not support any political power. One is clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Before voting, let us make a point, because in the Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies” we have set deadlines when changes to the law can be made. So let's, when we're finally getting ready to sign it already, legally speaking, we're going to change that article in how many days we can't make any changes. Do we have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! In view of your unanimity, I propose to take a decision on the approval of the draft law as the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. Registration number 9068. [[with the refinement that has just been mentioned by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk]] [[16:50:00]] For 361 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we will ask Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich to prepare an example of a ballot that will be presented to the Supreme Council and to local councils so that it can be seen and conducted. But this is going to be a conditional sample, it's not going to be a document. After drawing lots, it's obvious that we're going to get this document. What, what? Please log in, three minutes, from the procedure. From what? Three minutes. Paul Pulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u44	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Deputy Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u45	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have all witnessed a wonderful performance of Prime Minister Yehanurov's performing duties at the Mohilyan Academy, where he made it clear that everything should be sold and people should get a job in Europe. I think we have to protect Ukraine's property today, and we, thank God, today have passed the law that the NZF will remain in the Ukrainian state, as it was said, but we wanted to give our compatriots the money left over from the sale of the “Criminals”, even though the remainder, nine billion dollars, we gave our compatriots into the savings account. I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we had a decision of the Conciliation Council to consider this bill today, number 8676. This is the appropriate decision of the Conciliation Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u47	Leukyanko, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work on the plan, because as we begin to rule out the agenda, we're not going to do anything. Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u48	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u49	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Conciliation Council has decided that we will listen and make decisions on a group of bills concerning the inviolability of members of local councils at all levels. Today we agreed here, we took a break, I reported that at 4 o'clock we would hear this group of laws, which is actually identical. Without a long procedure and in two minutes we'll decide the first reading. I ask you to put this into discussion and a decision. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. This is how Adam Ivanovich tells me that there was only an agreement on what. And there was a vote and a decision was taken by the Supreme Council that we will now consider the law on children of war. Everything else is on schedule. Because if we're going to dissipate something right now, there's nothing we can do about it. That's why I'm now asking for a review of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 07.02. [[on the Social Protection of War Children]] In 2006 Registration number 8683-1. Reporter: Heater Helen Vasilovna, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Please, who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now let me read the veto of the President of Ukraine. I'm going to announce that the Supreme Council has made an agreed decision, that's all. Proposals for the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2006 adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 January 2006. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Ukraine's State Budget 2006 cannot be signed on the following basis: The law that came for the signature proposed that in 2006 the provisions of article 5, paragraph 7, and article 6 of the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War on the Rights of Persons Who, at the end of World War II, were less than 18 years of age at the end of September 45, were reduced by 25 per cent in the wage for the use of utility services, gas, electricity, etc., within the average consumption and increase in pensions, or monthly life support, or government social assistance paid in lieu of a pension of 30% of minimum retirement age. According to previous estimates by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, more than 12 billion dollars are needed for the implementation of the Law from the Ukrainian State Budget in 2006, and the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 establishes only 70 million dollars for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of War Children. It is therefore necessary to further seek out 11 billion 700 million dollars that are not foreseen in Ukraine’s 2006 government budget. Despite this, despite the requirements of part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, the Law, which came to be signed, did not determine the expenditure to be reduced and, or the source of additional budgetary revenue. The introduction of this Act will lead to a balanced state budget for Ukraine, which does not correspond to part three of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and paragraph two of article 7 of the Ukrainian budget code on the desire of the State to balance Ukraine's state budget. This can also cause underfunding for other socio-economic development programs of the state. Taking into account what has been said, it is proposed that Ukraine’s Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 should be rejected. Given the honourable colleagues that you have decided at the morning session to consider this law now, the voting will be in this order: first, the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the law. If the Supreme Council fails to support the President, a second proposal will be put to the vote – to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine by law. Such requirements. The author of the law, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, asks for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, since representatives have not come to present this bill, I am literally two words. It has to be noted that someone has seriously betrayed the President, and I apologize for the non-parliamentary expression, which has led him to sign this veto. What is it? All the things the President denies he signed in the State Budget Act 2006. You and I have merely clarified, more accurately recorded the standards that are in force today in the State Budget Act, and have clarified the articles. Once again, all of this is, in practice, what the President has already signed. But it's about saying clearly that, starting on January 1, this year, 25 percent discounts on utilities are being paid, and this is what's included in the budget of 700 million dollars, and the second, more clearly, what's in one of the articles of the State Budget Act, which, starting in the second half of the year, the Cabinet of Ministers is gradually introducing a 30 percent pension allowance for children of war. So we have every reason to help the President get out of this situation by taking the necessary 300 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u53	Helen Vasilovna Hotch. Please calm down. Please, the microphone. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers. People's deputies, please invite you to the session room, and we'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! What the Head of the Supreme Council has announced is clearly in line with the President's proposals, and I will not be able to change the President's decisions under this law. Because according to the Constitution, he's the only one who has that right. And if you say, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here in pensions, as Adam Ivanovich said, we will follow the decision of the Supreme Council and in the second half of the year to raise pensions. As for the benefits, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we too will be granting such benefits from January 1st, but taking into account the material condition of the participant, the person to whom these benefits extend. So we need to consider the President's proposals and make the right decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u55	Please, deputy. Matthew, I've already announced. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, please, I've already announced, okay, that's it. Please. Dear colleagues, we have announced. Let the Deputy Minister of Finance say the word. Your position has already been defined. Well, I'm happy to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I wish to address you. We always respect your position, your words. But what you said today doesn't fit what's in the budget. Dear Adam Ivanovich, if you put 25 percent on utility services on January 1st, you need 1.3 billion dollars. Thus, the State Budget Act is very correct to do so in a step - by - step manner, since only 600 million dollars are budgeted for this purpose. And the second part of your statement, which says you have to start with the first July 30 percent allowance, is that it costs 6 billion dollars that just don't exist in the budget. I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down, Your Honor. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 (Registration No. 8683-1). I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:02:13]] For the 15th. Dear colleagues, there's nothing to tell by factions. Well, please, I beg you, dear colleagues. Please calm down. Well, you've seen it. Why? I beg of you, dear fellows. It's happening. Well, if you'll excuse me, please. Nestor Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, is voting on the second proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2006 (on the social protection of children of war0 with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 07.02. In 2006 Please vote. Is there a vote, your honor, that you've had a discussion with each other? [[17:03:11]] For 246 The factions, please. Well, pay attention, dear fellows. “Regions of Ukraine” - 59, Communists - 56, National Party -40, “Our Ukraine” - 1, Block Timoshenko - 12, SPI - 29, National Block - 22, SDPU - 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, “Rebirth” - 1, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Reforms and Orders” - 0, “Ukraine” - 2, “non-fractional” - 6. What? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, let's get back to work, dear fellows, I beg of you. Government, committee, please let's meet the faction leaders, we'll talk again, but we have a decision to make. What do we do? Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property is being announced. [[on how to make payments for purchasers in Ukraine]] Registration number 8357. [[second reading]] No votes. What are we going to do, dear colleagues? Put it to the vote again? I'll do it. I'll put it to the vote again, but there are no votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u58	Let's do it with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u59	Let's sign up, let's get out of here. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, please. Five minutes of motive. Please sign up. Here comes the recording. Five minutes. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u60	Alexander Stoyan. You know, respectable colleagues! Now Matthew was speaking, and I remembered that story. I worked with him as head of the Federation for 10 years. And every time he came, he said one thing: You can't, because there's no money. And his time was driven out of the government by Kinakh Prime Minister, and he was not in the government of Yanukovich. A new government came, Pinzenik picked him up and sang the old song again: “No, you can’t, because there is no money. First of all, it's not all calculated. And second of all, we can't solve this problem. We're not saying that right now, we're saying it in stages. Let's look at pensions first, first the apartment, then the pension allowance. We have to count. Believe me, there are opportunities in the government. Can't you do that? Those who said in Maidan that the rich would help the poor, protect the disabled, unless they could be abused, are children of war who are not protected today. I think we should go back to this law and vote for it. The “regions” call for a return to the law and a vote in favour of it, to defeat the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u61	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u62	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u63	Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u64	Thank you. Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear comrades, I would like to recall in the beginning how they voted to overcome the veto. The radios must have pointed out that the faction “Our Ukraine” and the People's Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Orders”, that is, those who today formed the Government, half of that and the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, did not vote in favour of a bill that actually allowed the children of war, namely, veterans today, to end it somehow. In addition, Government members who serve more precisely today have actually falsified the State Budget for 2006. I don't even remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u65	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u66	Oleg Zarubinsky, “The People’s Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, respected media representatives. Now we are considering a matter that is not only legislative, frankly, but also legislative. It's about conscience, it's about conscience, it's about the conscience of those who live well enough today: they make a lot of money, they don't drive, they get a normal pension. The questions of conscience are set for those people, before the generation that suffered the most -- war. These pitiful benefits, and they're really pitiful, that we want to help people who are getting more and more out of our lives every day, is the little contribution we can make for this generation. In this connection, the People’s Block of Lithuania consistently, consistently, systematically tried, voted for, and will continue to vote, so that the generation of children of war can live in dignity at least for old age.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u67	Sergey Slabeko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u68	I'd like a word with you, Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u69	Sergei Soboljeva's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government of the previous Yanukovich has left us a 2005 budget with a 30 percent hole in the Pension Fund. And we had to process this budget and accept it in such a way that all pensioners would get a pension. Now what is proposed by this law? In fact, there are 800 million in the budget. An additional 6 billion in the budget are offered to take a teacher, a doctor, a pensioner, and to transfer the articles to an unknown source. Third. Deputy Assadchev, when voting under this law, proposed that Ukrainian national deputies, ministers and other high-ranking workers who had received a sufficient pension be excluded from the list of this law and paid only for the poor. They didn't do it. That is why this law has not been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u71	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u72	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Now we often see and meet with voters. And whoever is present at those meetings can confirm that virtually every meeting contains a question to the National MP: “How do you view the benefits to veterans and the benefits to children of war?” Realizing that this will carry some difficulty with the formation of the budget next year, however, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block with purely ideal principles of solidarity, meaning that the rich should pay for the poor, healthy for the sick, and successful for the disabled, we will obviously decide to vote for the ideas set out in this bill, which unfortunately the President vetoed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u73	Vladimir Muhan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u74	I'd like a word with you, Bokia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u75	Ivan Boki, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u76	Deputies, reverent radio listeners! Today we have faced the most terrible of state hypocrisy. Today, the President vetoed the War Children's Protection Act, the President who voted in favour of this law before the presidential elections. He was promoted to this paper, Minister of Finance Pinzenik, who also voted in favour of this law. And in this room was voted the State Budget Act, where it was 25 percent discount for quarterly payments and utilities. We're basically spitting in the face of the world's poorest seven million people. We spit on them not only in our souls, but we spit on everything they've done for Ukraine, what they've done to build this life that those people destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would just like to highlight one point. Why did the law that we had just considered arisen and cause us so much ruin? This law came about because the regulations of the State Budget of Ukraine are not being implemented. That's the first one. Second, respectable colleagues. Well, let's finally demonstrate our principles. When this law was voted on, 313 national deputies voted for it. Why, then, did they adopt the law? For the law on children of war. Why, then, did they vote in favour of this law? Because we acted on the principle that if we're not in power, we'll vote and then we'll figure it out. Well, let's show principle before it's over. The logic must be in our actions! Or let’s make arrangements with the government to get those 800 million articles immediately active. If not, let's look for another approach. But we can’t just take a position that is incomprehensible. Then I suggest that we consult with the government and make an acceptable decision with the committee. Well, if you insist, I can put it back. Well, what if there's no result? Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, You want me to put it in. Okay. Okay. Now let me put it to the vote. Who's for going back to law enforcement registration number 8683-1? Please vote. And invite the national deputies to the session room. [[17:14:28]] For 257 Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can arrange for us to return and hold consultations and then vote. Now you see the potential that there are no more voices. We need to keep the law so that we don't get rid of it. No objections? It's a deal. Dear colleagues, please, let's not scream in this way, because I have another proposal to publish in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" that voted in favour of adopting this law in 313 people. Then and then who voted and will be seen. You don't have to. Let's stop blackmailing each other. Consultations. We'll find a common solution. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property is being announced. [[on how to make payments for purchasers in Ukraine]] Registration number 8357, second reading. Budjigan Philip Philipovich. Let's work quickly to solve other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u78	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, registration number 8357, was introduced by the President of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council on 10 January this year, 276 votes in favour. The project proposes to grant the right to pay the costs acquired in the process of privatization of state property not only by the national currency of Ukraine but also by agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine and the freely converted currency. There were four proposals for the second reading of the bill. Of these, one proposal from Kabmin and three proposals from the national deputies. All offers are included. These proposals are intended to clarify that the right to pay the value of the property acquired in the process of privatizing the state property with a freely converted currency is granted only to foreign investors, I stress that. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for the bill without any notice. The committee asks you to support this bill in the second reading and in general as the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property. [[on how to make payments for purchasers in Ukraine]] Registration number 8357. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:17:28]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, well, this is the project that the President of Ukraine has put in place. I address all factions without emphasis. Second, the committees processed, all the proposals taken into account. What, then, are our motives for not voting? But there is the President's proposal, and he invites us to consider and make this decision. I'm voting for a return to the draft Law, registration number 8357. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:18:15]] For-183 The decision is not taken. What is the position of the committee? The committee proposes to withdraw. The bill was removed. Well, I'd like you, your honors, to be careful, we need to make positive decisions. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes is being announced for consideration. Registration number 8031. The reporter is Philip Philipovich Budzigan. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u80	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on National Programmes, registration No. 8031, adopted by the Supreme Council on 20 December of the fifth year, was voted by 287 national deputies. The second reading of the bill included four suggestions taken into account by the committee. In addition, fully taken into account the proposals made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, has called for the project without notice, and believes that it can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. We recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It's a technical law that doesn't carry any loads. A second reading committee is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes, registration No. 8031. Please vote. Yes, yes, yes, yes, please vote. [[17:20:19]] For 259. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the State registration of entrepreneurs]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of Leapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u82	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, a bill designed to provide more transparent information on the financial situation of businesses in Ukraine and available information about those who speak on behalf of enterprises can sign contracts without trust or are chosen to lead this enterprise. All the suggestions that came to second reading are taken into account. The law is, rather, technical and provides access to information. The committee supports the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please prepare for the vote. A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some of Ukraine’s laws, registration number 8056. [[concerning the State registration of entrepreneurs]] Please vote. [[17:21:48]] For 240 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 8068, is being announced for consideration. [[on the protection of intellectual property rights]] Kalestin Valeriy Vasilovich, deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection. You don't? Who's from the committee? Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account, surprisingly. Oh, Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u84	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. A committee on law enforcement was considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the protection of intellectual property rights]] Eight comments and suggestions were made before the second reading. All these comments and suggestions are taken into account. The adoption of this bill, which amends the Criminal Code of Ukraine, will provide a reliable legal mechanism for the protection of intellectual property rights and does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the position of the bill is relevant and correct, and it can be accepted as a whole. Since all comments are taken into account, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted in second reading and in general as a law. Vote please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a motion for a second reading committee to vote, and as a whole a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the protection of intellectual property rights]] Registration number 8068. Please vote. [[17:23:51]] For 227 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on transactions in the sale of agricultural products]] Registration number 8089. The reporter is Katerina Timofievna Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, you remember that in this room we have been very friendly in supporting a bill that has been set free from agricultural producers who produce agricultural products in their support farms, that is, in the gardens, in the cottages, from 13% of tax revenue, and they did it absolutely right. But to date and tax administrations require various forms of help certified by the village council, certified by statutes and so forth. And the peasant is running around for help. That's why we're literally making technical adjustments. The people who proposed the bill, including Yukhnowsky and Kalinchuk. And it comes down to a brief amendment that the form of help, the term of its operation, the order of its issuance and application is established by the State Tax Administration in agreement with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources and approved by the Cabinet. I mean, it's the only help, not the 18 that lets the peasants go around. I think it's actually a technical readjustment. And if the Cabinet of Ministers were to take care of our laws, to promote their implementation, it would have long established such help. If this is not done, we must change the law. Please support in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u87	Catherine Timothy, we accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u88	Yes, the committee's decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u89	Honorable National MPs. Well, Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, what's the point? This is the second reading. If there are any amendments, please. Kruglov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u90	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know what I'm asking, because I asked the same question for the first time. Where is the guarantee that there will be no 20 institutions in this manual that will verify this help? That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u91	I think the honourable national MPs, the honourable colleagues, Mikola Petrovich, that the laws are written for the wise people, because that's how any law can be brought to absurdity, and we write for the wise people. And in Kabmin, in executive power of appointment, smart people sit. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Taxes of Persons. [[on the sale of agricultural products]] Registration number 8089. Please vote. [[17:27:17]] For 306 Decision taken. Here we have applications for a recess to make inquiries. Maybe right now, if there's no objection to the laws, we're going to vote on them, not talk about the content of the laws. Please, Vitaly Hometic. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of production and circulation of tobacco products. [[second reading]] Registration number 8506.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u92	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The aim of Bill 8506 is to improve Ukraine’s legislation in the field of manufacturing and circulation of tobacco products in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 5 June 2005 and the Framework Convention for the Control of Tobacco by the World Health Organization. The second reading received 12 comments and suggestions. They're all accounted for by the committee, including two partials and two edited. The adoption of this bill will provide additional opportunities for effective measures to prevent the harmful effects of tobacco on the health of the population. The committee reviewed the draft law and suggested that it be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u93	Rudzkowski for the reasons of the vote, please. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, national MPs! This law is strictly lobbying, I'm asking you all not to vote it out, it's an attempt by manufacturers to delay modernization instead of reducing the amount of resin in cigarettes to make them less dangerous to human health, they don't want to do it. I ask you not to vote in favour of this Act, let them not run to Parliament, but follow technology and make cigarettes safer. No way! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u95	Sergey Shevchuk, one of the authors of the bill, please explain what the Law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u96	I agree with Mr. Rudzkowski that nicotine and resin should be reduced in cigarettes. But it's a very different matter of law, Mr. Mikolo, quite different. This bill is about the opposite, and it's about advertising tobacco products that are sometimes applied on packs, and it says that they're light, lightweight, pleasant, wonderful, with menthol, without menthol, and they're misleading customers, thinking they're safe products. This bill eliminates this possibility, and this corresponds to an international convention on tobacco control. This is the basic principle laid down in this bill. As for nicotine and resin, we have already adopted a bill that foresees a reduction in these harmful substances from the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A second reading and, as a whole, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of the production and circulation of tobacco products is put to the vote. Registration No. 8506. Please vote. [[17:31:01]] For 271 The law is passed. The factions, please. The regions of Ukraine are 53, the communists are 53, the People's Party is 36, our Ukraine is 34, the Timoshenko Block is 22, the SPI is 0, the People's Block is 8, the SDPU is 6, the Ukrainian People's Party is 10, the Rebirth is 3, the Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 8, the Ukrainian People's Movement is 15, the Reforms and Orders is 12, the Ukraine is 5, the non-fractional is 6. Dear National Deputies! For a long time, there have been two factions here, even three factions calling for a break, this is the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”, the faction of “One Ukraine” and it has not yet been understood. So who's going to come out of the factions? Mikola Komar, please. We still have a lot of bills, we can't take a break, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u98	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! There was much talk in this room about violations of the laws during the 2004 election of Mayor Mukachev. But has there been any change in the conduct of authority? We urge all democratic forces to give a proper assessment of the actions of today's authorities, which are trying to influence the movement and results of today's electoral campaign. The fact is that today has once again become a fact of trying to falsify in Mukachev. The scandal was initiated by yesterday’s opposition, and now the authorities, and the object of the attack today is the most influential political party in the Zakarpata region and its martyrdom city organization. Activists are trying to prevent the Party of Regions from taking part in the elections. After experiencing his imminent loss, the city’s head, Mukachevka, and his patron of the minister, Balogah, were swept away. In order to prevent the victory of the Party of Regions, which is rapidly increasing, the active authorities seek to remove the regions from the electoral distance. To that end, the authorities are using the former head of the torturer organization of the Party of the Regions, John Glagoli, who was expelled from the party two years ago for inaction. And somehow right now, in January, Glagola came to the Mukatov District Court with a lawsuit for violation of his rights. Judge Kurapatnik accepted the application for violation of the current procedural order. In addition, while continuing to harshly violate legislation, Judge Kuratitnik ruled on the approval that effectively prohibits the carrying out of a statutory act of torture by the municipal organization of the Party of the Regions. So this time it's already on the constitutional rights of citizens to choose freely and to be chosen. The real idea of the authors of this play was when a group of people tried to hold a secret conference and applied for registration to participate in the local elections for another list from the Party of Regions. Overcoming the opposition of the perpetrators, the regional parties have reached the hand of this illegal execution of the court for the title of Glagoli. This document will be considered at a judicial session to be held today. But there is great doubt as to whether this meeting will take place. The previous two did not have representatives from the Mesquikonkam, the third party of the trial. One task in power is to take time. If the court is adjourned and a decision is not rendered by February 13, the Mukachevo Regional Party will be suspended from voting. But on our side is the law. The faction of the Party of the Regions strongly demands that the CEC strictly control the rule of law throughout Ukraine and especially in the Zakarpat region. Unlike today’s authorities, the Party of the Regions does not press charges, but it demands that all judges be impartial in taking decisions and managing them exclusively by law, not by directing officials. The authorities must keep their promise of fair, transparent elections at all levels in each region of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u99	The draft Law on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agro-industry complex of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. It's very short for us to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u100	Thank you. The draft law was adopted in the first reading in November 2005. When the draft law was drafted, 109 proposals came to second reading, of which 64 were taken into account in whole or in part, and 45 were rejected as limiting the operation of the law, the operation of the engineering system. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt it in a second reading and as a whole as a law. And for the stenogram. Regrettably, for technical reasons, the addition of the National MP Spak to article 21, paragraph 5, of the bill is not recorded in the second paragraph of the following substance: the automated accounting of the registered machines and the information of their owners is carried out using the only State Register, the holder of which is the authorized authority for the supervision of the technical condition of the machinery, equipment and the quality of the fuel - oil materials. Thank you. People's deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a draft law for a system of engineering and technical security for Ukraine's agro-industry complex. Registration number 7728. Please vote. Change the vote. Just a minute. Minfin. Merkovsky Anatoly. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to draw attention literally to two positions. The first position is that this law defines the specific percentage of how much the general fund costs are to be spent on APC engineering and on the development of agrarian machinery. We believe that this is a violation of the Constitution because article 95 states that only the budget law determines specific directions. Therefore, in the sectoral law, this cannot be done. And the second serious position. The import duty, i.e. the premium, is being abolished for import into the customs territory of the technical equipment for the APC and the spare parts to them. This should also be decided in the specific law on the single customs tariff. That's why we're proposing to exclude these positions from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we can't rule out the second reading. If only we had prepared for the first time. I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues. I would then ask Minfin and the Cabinet of Ministers to read the Constitution when we are budgeted, when they propose that the budget stop the social laws. And we know how to read the Constitution, so let's find an agreed solution in the drafting of the bills for introduction into the session room. May I have your attention, Your Honor? It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, to draft the Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine. Registration number 7728. Please vote. Here comes the vote, your honors. Please vote. [[17:38:42]] For 181 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second motion for re-reading. What? Is that why you're here? There's no other way out. For re-reading the draft law registration number 7728. Please vote. [[17:39:13]] For 239. Decision taken. We need to listen to Bogdan Kostinuk, and we wouldn't be wasting our time. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine is being announced for consideration. [[on position clarification]] Why don't we vote now? Honorable colleagues, since the committee proposes to accept the proposals in the second reading and in general as the Law, are all taken into account. What? There's an amendment to Sergey Sobolev. Sergei Soboljeva's microphone, one minute. Change the vote. Amendment 18?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u104	18, yeah. I am very grateful that all the adjustments are taken into account. The law clearly regulates liability for counterfeiting, counterfeiting, but there is one amendment that, unfortunately, was voted in the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Traffic of Ethylene, but we postponed it 18 months after its entry into force. This refers to making bottles of glazed ceramics, wood, craftsmanship, that's what goes like a souvenir bottle, and also making, for example, “Tetropack” and “Begenboxes”, that is, special technologies that go like souvenirs. This has not been put into effect until now. My suggestion is that this amendment should be made from that Law into this Law and put into effect the introduction of the Law, because otherwise it is now being produced. We see her on the benches. And, in fact, all those who release it are the ones who fake it, because it is not in the Law until now. I have a proposal with this amendment to vote on this Law. Thank you. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I absolutely agree with Sergey Vladislavovich, but this rule of the Law will be immediately in three laws. If national deputies agree to be in one, in the other, and in the third Law, they may vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u105	Your Honor, since Sergio Sobolev's amendment is, does he insist? We're voting her, aren't we? I'm voting on Amendment 18 Sergey Soboljeva. [[17:41:45]] For-183 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill project. Change the voting again. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm already yelling, I'm showing you, I've already taken the flag specifically to signal you there. I would like to thank you for taking my amendments into account. It's bad that we didn't take Sobolev's amendment into account. We have to go back to her. But we do have a comment from the Legal Chief Executive on February 6. Take a look at it, please, at the first observation, which is extremely important, and it needs to be taken into account now, because if we take it, it will be a veto. The project proposes part 5 of article 2 of the Act, which provides for the write-off of vineyards of all forms of property not only on the basis of public funds, contrary to article 41 of the Constitution, under which the right of private property is inviolable. This observation is written first. Others may be overlooked, but this observation needs to be reflected. I'd like the reporter to tell us right now what they're thinking, how they're going to do this now, and then we're going to have to go back and take it with the Sobolev amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u107	Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the language is spoken. This is a mistake. The language is for the vineyards that are planted at the expense of government funds. State! I would like to point out that the state, for the record, is at the expense of the state funds that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u108	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, we'll be fine, it'll be fair. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ That's it, that's it. For the protocol, I said, at the expense of state funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u109	The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine is put to the vote. [[on position clarification]] Registration number 8537. Please vote. [[17:44:13]] For 237 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7795, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the State Special Transport Service]] Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, accounted for. The committee suggests approval in the second reading and generally as a law. No warning? I put to the vote this proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7795. [[concerning the State Special Transport Service]] Please vote. [[17:45:07]] For-300 The law is passed. A draft Law on certain measures for deregulation of entrepreneurship is being announced for consideration. Philip Philipovich Budzigan, please tell us what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u110	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you very much. We've got six drafts coming up. Ladies and gentlemen, they are essentially about one question. If for the transcript, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you would list them all, and I would just say the conclusions of the committee, and then we would vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u111	It's a deal. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u112	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u114	Draft law 0953. This is a bill that deals with business deregulation. It was accepted in the first reading as a basis in 1998. Until then, it was clear that everything had changed. And the committee, members of the committee at their meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 September 1998 on the adoption, in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on certain measures for deregulation of business activities, of registration number 0953 be repealed, and to withdraw the bill from consideration. The following bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u115	Let's vote now. Dear colleagues, here's the whole package of bills that is being proposed to take a decision to repeal earlier laws in the first reading, because life has gone far, far ahead, of a basic motive. Therefore, if you have no objection, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the lifting of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act on certain measures for the regulation of entrepreneurial activities, number 0953\P. Please vote. Please vote. This is to reverse the decision that we made as a basis back in 98. [[17:47:24]] For 243 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u116	Yeah, next bill, 1113. This bill refers to the amendments to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation in Ukraine. Adopted in 2003. The same situation that the committee proposes to remove from consideration. Should I Read?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u117	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the valuation of property, property rights and professional evaluation activities in Ukraine, registration number 1113-DP1. Please vote. [[17:48:27]] For 205 Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's vote, this project is not working, we don't need it anymore. I'm voting for a return to draft Law 1113-D. Please vote. [[5:48:55]] For 285 We're back. I'll bet you a vote on the draft order. Registration number 1113-D(P)1. Please vote. [[17:49:20]] For 313 Decision taken. See, we can if we want. Next project, 4344.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u118	This bill concerns amendments and additions to the Law on Contracts and Distribution of Produce. Registration number 4344. It was introduced three years ago, by the deputies of the School, Maquienko, Hmelnick. Before this bill, when we adopted it as a basis in 2004, there were over 60 proposals, the authors did not agree. The Cabinet of Ministers also disagreed with the Working Group on the bill. Since the situation here is that the bill has already lost its relevance because there are other laws that regulate this area of issues, the committee has decided to withdraw the bill from consideration. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u119	I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 4344-P1 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Product Distribution. Please vote. [[17:50:46]] For 274 Decision taken. The next draft of the decision proposed to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukraine Act on the Special Economic Zone of “Micolays”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u120	The fact is that the bill was introduced by the people’s deputies Demjochin and Matthew, it was adopted on first reading in November 2004. But now, ladies and gentlemen, I don't mind, I'll give you the committee's opinion. The view of the committee that this bill makes very fine changes to this bill, because the authors themselves are smart, you know, Matthew's deputy head of the committee, a communist. But the question here is, given that there have been significant changes in current legislation since the introduction and adoption of the budget code, and you know, in particular, that you know that there are special economic zones of our leading cabinet members. And the committee, as a result of this, has made a decision and I have to report this to you so that the drafters agree to withdraw. It's your business.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't make a positive decision on the committee's proposal, he'll come back to the committee and work. That is why I am proposing to a committee to vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Law on the Special Economic Zone of “Micolays”. Registration No. 4388/p1. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:52:47]] Z-91 The bill goes back to the committee for further work. Dear colleagues! We need to make two decisions. I don't think there's any need to report it. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on recognition of the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatised of Privatisation. Do you understand? Dear colleagues! We need to make a technical decision, we don't have to do this project anymore. I'm voting on draft decree, registration number 8019-9. Please vote. Dear colleagues! What are you talking about? Please vote. [[17:53:50]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The project is going back to the committee. The next draft decree, registration number 8263/P2 on recognition of the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the adoption on the basis of the draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on the privatization of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT "Croat State Mining and Metallurgy Combined "Criovirizstal". I'm voting on the approval of the draft ruling. I'm asking you, dear fellows, please, here comes the vote. [[17:54:36]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's be realistic. Well, that reminds us of the fact that we buy a ticket and walk. Why would you do that? A draft decree on the placement of the village of Butch of the Irpine City Council of the Kyiv Region into the category of cities of regional importance is being announced. Any questions? I am voting for the adoption of the Supreme Council's draft decree on the assignment of a town-type village of Butch of the Irpine City Council of the Kyiv Region to the category of cities of regional importance. Registration number 8641. Please vote. [[17:55:28]] For 309 Decision taken. We need to continue our work for 15 minutes and consider ratifications. Here we go. We consulted and made a decision. These are two documents of this nature. These are draft laws on the ratification of Protocols Nos.12 and No.14 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine. [[0324, 0325]] Any warning? None. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of Protocols Nos. 12 and No. 14 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Rights. Registration number 0324. Please vote. [[17:56:36]] For 255 Decision taken. I am now voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine, registration number 0325, that is, the changes that come from the instruments we have ratified. Please vote. [[17:57:09]] For 237 Decision taken. Now we have a re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24.12.2002. Dear colleagues, what's the point? We need to cancel the decision, which is the law that was passed and to which the President applied the veto to open the way for us to adopt a new draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, he hangs then. Then it will be difficult for us to pass a new law when it hangs. Dear colleagues, well, we can proceed in this way, Your Honor, to put the President's veto to the vote on this Act. We can't overcome the veto, it's automatically deflected and everything. Well, let's put it this way? Dear colleagues, this Law, well, cannot be considered, since it is outdated, does not correspond to the new position of the Constitution. But he's on the Supreme Council. We agreed that on Monday the faction would get a new version of the draft Ukrainian Cabinet Act and we would look at it. We just have to cancel this one. That is why I am voting on the President's proposal to overcome the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 0893. [[17:59:01]] For-66 The Veto of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, was unable to overcome, the Law was rejected. Yes, it is now announced before the review of the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.01.2006. Registration number 7364 Reporter – Deputy Justice Minister Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich, please. Actually, we should postpone this consideration. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u122	Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine notes that the Ukrainian Supreme Council Act of 11 January of this year on the State Property Fund cannot be signed for the following reasons. As in the President's previous proposals, these also point out that the proposed project does not meet the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as the rules of the Civil and Economic Code of Ukraine in the part where the State Property Fund is mandated to manage state property. In addition, the President stresses the need to reconcile this law with the stated rules of the Master and Civil Code, as well as the urgent need for legislative regulation primarily on the status of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, matters of administration of public property, since the authorization of the State Property Fund is somehow linked and dependent on the resolution of these issues. In addition, observations and provisions of the law on appointment and dismissal of the Head of the State Property Fund and its deputies are raised. Thus, the head of the law is defined as an exclusive list, under which the Supreme Council may release the head of the Property Fund, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, behave yourself. The reporter didn't finish the speech. Finish, get the other words, don't beat up the deputy minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u124	In addition, the law lays down the financing arrangements and the material and technical provision of the fund at the expense of the general and special state budget funds. These provisions are also not in line with article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account the conceptual nature of the comments, the President of Ukraine proposes that the prescribed law be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position. Microphone, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u126	Gurenko, Communist faction, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The point is that it is awkward to speak. All the President's conceptual remarks were taken into account. And yet, we've regained the veto of the same warehouse. And the Supreme Council voted for the last time to draft the law, taking into account the President's conceptual remarks. So the committee, after considering this at its meeting yesterday, made such a decision. To overcome, ask the Supreme Council to overcome the President's veto so he can sign the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m1.u127	So I'm asking the honourable colleagues, because now we have to make a decision, invite the national MPs to the session room, so everyone can make a conscious choice, that's the first. And the second. In accordance with the Rules, we will put to the vote the first proposal to reject the law. So the proposal of the President of Ukraine, and then we're going to be able to determine the proposals of the committee. No objections? That is why I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[18:03:40]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a vote on the motion by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, registration number 7364. Please vote. [[6:04:17]] For 246 The decision is not taken. The factions. That's not how they gave me a new editorial, that's the problem. “Regions of Ukraine” - 53, Communists - 56, National Party - 34, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Block Timoshenko - 24, SPI - 29, National Block - 20, SDPU (o) - 16, Ukrainian National Party, “Rebirth”, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” - zeros, “Only Ukraine” - 9 non-fractional - 5. Who's to go back to the law? Registration number 7364. Go back to the law. [[18:05:07]] For 245 We've come back to the law, now I'm asking the honourable colleagues of the committee and the appropriate structures of the government, let's hold consultations on this law. In 15 minutes, dear colleagues. No, and we announced that we would continue for 15 minutes. Be patient. Dear colleagues! Since I see that we will not make effective decisions today, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. schedule for Friday. I'd like to warn you, dear colleagues, that tomorrow we're going to be hearing a government report on housing issues. Therefore, I ask everyone to participate in the meeting.
