ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, journalists, invited to the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Please register. [[10:02:52]] A total of 398 national deputies were registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. The procedure hasn't started yet. Today we have the opportunity to make statements, declarations from factions, in accordance with the Rules. I'd like you to sign up for the factions. We'll give you five minutes to make a statement from the faction. Please. Yes, please, Jaroslav Kenzier, "Our Ukraine." Viacheslav Koval, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Allow me, as a native of the Dnipropetrov region, to make a statement to the faction of "Our Ukraine." On November 25, 2006, the Ukrainian people revered the memory of millions of fellow countrymen who died from famine in the 20th century. In large cities and small villages, the memory of innocent victims was lit. In the capital city of Ukraine alone, more than 50,000 people came to the memorial in Mihailovsk and Sofia. A famine is not just a terrible tragedy, for a tragedy can be caused by natural disaster, it was a consciously purposeful, government-organized action aimed at the physical destruction of a large social group, primarily by a national sign. These evaluations are the basis of the concept defined in international legal instruments “genocide as a crime against humanity”. On May 15, 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine acknowledged that famine was an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. However, the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had a purely political effect. On 2 November of this year, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine introduced a draft Ukrainian Law on Hungermare 32-33 years in Ukraine. The adoption of a normative instrument is very important, for it must legally strengthen our nation’s attitude toward a terrible tragedy. According to the text of the normative instrument, famine must be recognized as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. It is now scientifically proven that the famine was deliberately planned by the Communist Stalin regime. Its aim was to punish Ukrainians for their constant desire to identify themselves and their negative attitude towards collectiveization, to conduct themselves on the basis of the Ukrainian village of industrialization, to cleanse Ukrainian lands from the root nation for mass settlement to others, more obedient to the Kremlin to the population. This fact is confirmed by the fact that the famine of 32 to 33 years was organized not only in the U.S.R.R. territory, but also mostly by the Ukrainians of Belgrade, Chicken, Cuba. The Buzuvir Plan was implemented by means of a series of concerted and well-coordinated measures, which resulted in the destruction of the traditional agricultural system by mass-breeding peasants who were forced into cologne, the imposition on peasants of disproportionately high farming plans, the denial of the right of peasants to passport a Soviet citizen, the ban on peasants from their residences, the repression of Ukrainians who voluntarily left the countryside, the introduction of a special regime on individual regions, which was particularly responsible for the Soviet authorities that took away all their goods and livelihoods; the attempt to hide the causes and magnitude of the tragedy that emerged from the ban on correspondence and dissemination of information on the actual situation in the village, particularly the punishment of persons who had been found to be in the 1939 census of the high-level Soviet population; and the Ukrainian population of Ukraine for the Ukrainian population. The draft of the Gollodomor Act, introduced by the President of Ukraine, establishes the legal mechanisms necessary for the implementation of this document. The Ukrainian people's denial of the genocide calls for administrative responsibility. Regrettably, the Ukrainian President’s bill has stumbled upon incomprehensible obstacles. Recall that the fact of famine is recognized by ten parliaments around the world. It was deliberately not considered by the Supreme Council on November 17, 2006, the day before the day of the complaint of the victims of the Holocaust. Now an alternative version of the bill has been introduced by the representatives of the Party of the Regions. This document is a copy of a project submitted by the President of Ukraine, but does not contain the term “genocide” and “administrative responsibility for denying the fact of famine”. So his main and meaningful haircut is cooled from the document. The immoral provocation was the spread on November 17th in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a brochure entitled Myth of Hungermare – The Invention of Mind manipulators, which defies historical facts and slanders the national dignity of Ukrainians. The faction “Our Ukraine” supports the position of the head of state, who believes that the adoption of the Act “On the Holocaust” is the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The consideration and resolution of this problem cannot be the subject of political speculation, for a terrible tragedy has hit Ukraine’s central and eastern regions equally. It concerned, above all, the common people, whose defenders are now exposed to some modern opposers of the recognition of famine. This tragedy passed through all Ukrainian families, inflicting irreparable wounds on the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation. The consideration and solution of the problem of famine lies in the morals and morals of the Ukrainian elite, all those who must not only preserve the historical memory of the Ukrainian people but also work for the civilized present and the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u3	Before you speak on. Cibenko, I want to use the regulatory right and I want to welcome, on behalf of the Supreme Council, the birthday of John Vladimir Mikhailovich and Chencev Dmitry Alexiyovich. Let's say hello. We wish them success as young people, happy success in their work, and as part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko has the floor, please, from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, is Peter Cibenko. Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, in the order of the daily Supreme Council of Ukraine from the submission of the President of Ukraine, there was a draft Hungermare Act of 1932-33 in Ukraine. The purpose of his adoption is clear and transparent. His acceptance of the present - day instigators of present - day creeping famine and the cold of the Nineties, two thousand years old, want to divert attention from their present crimes, from the fact that in Ukraine today there are no more 52.5 million people, as in Soviet times, but 6 million fewer. Of course, they don't want to answer that question, and they're throwing it as an ideological preparation of a 70 - year - old event. Second, we must have at least the moral right to condemn our predecessors. They are absolutely convinced that a person who has worked very actively and much for the organization of today's cold and famine and in the positions of head of the government of the Bank of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, now the President of Ukraine, does not have such a moral right. And now, essentially. Was there a famine in Ukraine? Yes, indeed, it was, it was true. But it's not all true, because hunger was not only in Ukraine, it was no less a terrible famine in the Pogled, in Cuba, in other regions of the Soviet Union. I would like to say that there are many references on the committee to the written eyewitnesses of those events. Among other things, there are examples of a man who came from Russia to Ukraine, saving himself from the terrible famine that was there. There has also been severe famine in some European countries, as well as in other continents. Then the question arises, and who is there, organized a famine in those lands. And now I'd like to raise a little curtain of double standards used by the author, the President of Ukraine. On April 21, 2005, on the eve of the 85th anniversary of the birthday of the great son of the Ukrainian people, John Mikitovich Kožedub, three times Hero of the Soviet Union, the Supreme Council made a decision to be commissioned by the executive authority to build him a monument in the city of Kiev. In view of the apparent sabotage of the then Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, I, as chairman of the committee, have repeatedly asked the President to resolve the problem. There's no reaction. And today a rusty star was not killed to enforce the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now another example: When it became clear that it would be necessary to save the immersed image of the orange team. anything to play on the subject of hunger, it was immediately released from the United States of America by such a hungry fan, Dr. James Mace. Working in Ukraine, a person dies. An order from the President of Ukraine to design and build a United States monument, install a memorial board, rename one of Kiev’s streets, prepare a series of radio and television programs. Make a documentary. Of course, it's all for the government budget of Ukraine. About such an honorable son of the Ukrainian people, a glorified air ace, three times the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Mikitovich Kožedub, and he could not dream. And all his fault is that, in the opinion of his “loving friends”, he was not fighting those enemies. And then these people talk about some morality, some "pure hands" and some kind of bright conscience. Clearly, what I am told about today and what many others say is obvious. Orange or orange leaves are now on the move. The president is blackmailing society by targeting it with increasing divisions in our society. And that is not just what the blind see today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u5	Belarus has a word. A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u6	Honorable National MPs. We have to say that there's been a breakdown in the 2007 budgetary process in the Supreme Council. The situation is unique. The government has a parliamentary majority, its own government, controls the Parliament's Budget Committee and at the same time is unable to approve the State Budget. Despite the fact that according to the Budget Code, all the terms relating to the submission of the budget to Parliament were still due on November 14th. We never saw a government draft of the main financial document. This week, too, his consideration is unforeseeable. To our conviction, the lack of budget and the unwillingness of the government to present it to the Supreme Council testify to the unprofessionalness of the Cabinet of Ministers. During the four months of the administration of Yanukovich, no action has been taken, nor has any decision been taken that can be considered to be for the benefit of the people and society. The only achievement of the government is a statement, a 9 billion budget spent in shadow in the current year, even stated by the Prime Minister himself. At the same time, no name has been given and no evidence has been published of specific corruption that can only reveal one thing: the Yanukovich government stimulates and covers corruption. In view of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” mentioned above, it requires that the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Budget Committee be heard first of all about the breakdown of the budget process. Second, name those government officials and officials who are involved in corruption schemes and in the release of billions of dollars into the shadows. Thirdly, to adopt a decree establishing a special commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, which should examine the circumstances of spending the funds received from privatising the “Cruvoristal” combination. Let me remind you, that's about 20 billion dollars. Next. Create a temporary commission of inquiry to study corruption schemes related to selective tax compensation to the government for the added cost, in order to stop the total corruption that exists in the state today. And the last. We also require a government report on the collapse of the winter heating season in the country and an illegal and unjustified increase in the government's housing and utility tariffs. In a few minutes in the Supreme Council, honourable nationals of Ukraine will begin their consideration of the recognition of famine in 1932-33 by genocide against the Ukrainian people. Voting on this issue will be a test for every MP, every Ukrainian policy, a civil maturity test, and national wisdom. On November 25, the entire Ukrainian people bowed their heads to the light of the memory of our compatriots who died during the famine. Now clearly, famine is not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence, it's a deliberate, purpose-oriented genocide that was committed against the Ukrainian people. And the purpose of this genocide was to destroy the dignity of our nation. Today, we are obliged to honor our ancestors who died in those terrible black days. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I would like to invite you to honor the memory of the destroyed, murdered, tortured, tortured by our citizens for a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u7	I have two things to comment on. First. Alexander Valentinovich! Proposals of this kind are made, either by the chairman who presides over the meeting, or by his commission, by the one entrusted with the task, first. It's different. Today there is no breakdown of the budget process, there is a procedure that is approved by the Supreme Council. Once the Tax Change Act and the Privatisation Programme have been signed by the President and become effective, and there will be a resource base for budgeting, then it is possible to make the option that comes out of the Supreme Council's decision to remove tax and privatisation rules from the budget. This is our joint decision. Today we have passed this law, it has not yet been signed by the President. There's no breakup, we'll take the budget at the right time. From the faction of the Party of Regions comes Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! Last week, we all watched the beginning of a new series of orange political shows, taking advantage of the occasion of a privatized holiday, our dear friends dedicated themselves to a beloved genre, passionate self-love, guided tours of an official barricaded past that was reinforced by the people's loud promises. Teleecrans have become engrossed in the enchantment of heroes, field commanders, to be applauded by the whole of Ukraine. And in order to be able to watch everything, even children under the age of 16, heroes have hidden at this time the cheap pistols received as a reward for the intended contribution and the weighty results of the fight against corruption and organized crime. What if the Secretary of Defense on this path goes and gives the order to reward them with tanks or rocket launchers? We are not surprised, by the way, that the decision of the Pecher Court to hold the Minister of Internal Affairs responsible for corruption today or tomorrow will be overturned by the Court of Appeal in connection with the pressure put to the court by the President’s Office. So in the background of this holiday, the cold-hearted look at the corruption of some of the orange authorities in 2005-2006. Not to mention the famous words of Julia Timoshenko on the “Inter” channel, when she said of her fellow citizens right after the resignation of her government in September 2005: “We can’t shake hands that are busy – they constantly rub something in the state.” The ex-head of the U.S.S.A., now a Turkish national deputy who directly accused the President of Ukraine of subjugating and cracking down on huge corruption in the state, was suddenly enriched in the back of his mind. I quote: “He, the President, tried to block the investigation and entrusted himself with the energy field of his First Assistant, and the Prime Minister, at the request of the Head of Naftobaz, Yvchenka, was banned from interfering in the energy sphere at all.” According to the BAF ex-head, almost everything in the Security Service was ready to present the charges to the main crime figures. Then it was also responsible for the state: the tears of one another, the tears of another, the anguish of another. None of the allegations of corruption in the higher echelons of power that led to a logical conclusion were seen by the country. The next government, the government of Yehanurov, considered it appropriate not to move foreign bees, while the country almost breathed in the hot embraces of the field brothers. Today, the anti-crisis coalition, the government of Viktor Yanukovic, is starting to rule the state. The first findings of high-level audits by the Attorney General's Office and the Chief Auditor's Office have already been published. The facts in the reports are impressive. The orange team, who promised the right things, used the budget for their own needs and for their own reasons in a shameless and unpunished manner. They feared no one, for they had their own authority, either to do the same or could not in any way prevent great corruption. Today, law enforcement and control agencies are disintegrating illegal corruption schemes in the authorities that have resulted in damages to the state for about 9 billion dollars. How can 80 charter flights of 80 million dollars be made for themselves and their families? And what is worth snowmen for 150,000 dollars, or a picture of a snowflake for 56,000 bracelets for Mr. Yvchenk and a company that was informed by the Society by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine? Where are your operating services, Mr. Home Secretary? Did you not reward Yvchenko with a badge of name at the expense of his budget? The party of regions strongly claims that at a time of impunity at all levels has ended. Each high official, each official, both in the center and in the premises, will be responsible in accordance with the established law for his own free will, abuse of office or other criminal offences. A party of regions insists. Before you reunite for another storm of power under the drums, your friends will be honest with you and your people. If you choke on each other's arms, it'll be another half of the trouble. But once again, we will not allow you to smother the country with our own love. Moreover, the people have already come to their conclusions about the unity of the orange team, its clean hands, and its honest eyes. Your second monopoly will not happen. Because the country has changed, people have changed, people have changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u9	Thank you. Taking advantage of the chairman’s right and subsuming this stage of our session, I would ask, as in boxing, to listen to the break team. Half a step back. The topics that are at the forefront are not worthy of that zeal, the fervor that we are now pursuing in the hall. That's the first one. The other one. The Socialist faction asks the chairman to give his word at the expense of his time. I'm going to use this right to remind the national MPs, the TVs, the journalists who are here today, on November 28th. Six years ago, there were events in Ukraine that eventually led to a change in the political regime, a change of power that had stained itself with violent crimes. The first mass public protest against power was the death of a prominent parliamentary journalist, Georgia Gongadze. Georgia is also associated with the actions “Ukraine without Cuchma”, “Arise Ukraine!” in the 2004 Maydan revolution, where its tent also stood. Georgia’s name for Ukraine became significant. And this name will not be forgotten by millions of Ukrainians who found the notion of freedom of speech and human rights to be more important than the gangster notions of the then regime of power. Georgia’s name will not be forgotten by me. Not only have we been well acquainted, and I have the highest opinion of his professional qualities, but I understand in many ways that the uncompromising struggle to expose the political assassination of journalists has given many politicians today the confidence of the electorate. If Ukraine had not raised itself against the killing of its citizen by the authorities, there would have been neither Maidan nor political reform nor the hope of democracy. The government lied on all television channels that the killing of Gongadze was a provocation that was killed by drug addicts, that Melnick's records were a fake, and they themselves promoted those involved in the murder on duty, piled up mountains of lies, claimed that Gongadze was no unknown journalist with a questionable reputation. At the highest order, he even released a film that explicitly claimed that Gongadze was involved in information wars, which is why he was guilty of what happened. Such facts can be found in more than a hundred. However, some who at that time were mucking in the memory of the dead journalist and tried hard to protect the then president, found their place in the new power, and even dared to represent themselves as advocates of democracy. I think the Georgia Gongade case has played a huge role in the development of Ukrainian journalism. For the first time since Georgia’s death, there has been a campaign of journalistic solidarity, and now the professional unity of Ukrainian journalists is one of the reliable guarantees of freedom of speech in our country. Without a joint appeal by journalists to find George in 2000, there would be no press protests in the fourth year. I'll be honest with you, I think it's the real day of a journalist in Ukraine on September 16th. It would be easier and more comfortable not to criticize authority. Not to fight, but he did what he was told by the professional duty of a parliamentary-political journalist, and he was, in large account, the first citizen of Ukraine. I think this is the kind of example that young journalists in our country should be brought up. Today, a memorial board will be opened at the third floor of the Supreme Council in memory of Parliamentary journalist Georgia Gongadze, a hero of Ukraine. There's been a lot of talk about George's murder over the years. But the truth about this crime, its organizers and its conspirators, has not yet been revealed. At the parliamentary hearings in the Gongadze case in September, the report was also heard by both the current and previous general prosecutors. We've seen no significant progress in this case at this time, and the court is continuing its annual farce in the case of the journalist's murder. The issue of Georgia Gongadze is for Europe a test of democracy in Ukraine, a key indicator of the effectiveness of the country's law enforcement system and an indicator of the ability of the Office of the Attorney General to lead the investigation. The committee responsible for investigating the crime is working in Parliament. I think the Supreme Council could listen to the board's information, invite Henprocuror to the report. The Attorney General and all the officials responsible at all levels should understand that they have a personal responsibility for uncovering the crime, and we can't take this filth any further and re-simulate the investigation, by the way, everyone's long understood for their replacement. If we, the Supreme Council, do not exercise political will and demand the opening of the murder of George Gongadze, it will never be revealed, and this stain will lie on other generations of Ukrainian authority. Only the discovery of the murder will allow the community to regain confidence in the security system and authority in Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 November of this year, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on 26 March 2006 in the multi-mandatory national constituency, Kulczynski Mikol Georgievic, who is included in the "Our Ukraine" constituency. He was already a member of the Supreme Council, and he has experience in his work. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u11	Thank you. Let's welcome Mikola Grigorovich, wish him success in his difficult work. The issue of registration number 2470, 2470-1, is being considered, which must first be included in the agenda and decided on the draft of the Holodomor Act. I ask you to vote in favour of including this issue. Please. About getting into the daytime. [[10:33:22]] For 222 It's not everything! Once again, the question is declared urgent. The Conciliation Council offered to consider today. I insist that we resolve this matter according to procedure. I'm asking you to take your seats! Don't explain the rules to me! Sign the procedure for five minutes. By factions, please make your answer. I'll give you my word now. Region Party – 6, Block Timoshenko – 115, “Our Ukraine” – 72, SPI – 27, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” – 2. Please arrange for everyone to vote, and there will be no problem. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I would like to refer to the factions who did not vote, particularly to the members of the factions of the “Regions”. During the terrible famine, not only in Central Ukraine, many people died in Donetsk, Luhansk, other eastern areas, and regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is our historic responsibility to vote in favour of this bill. So I ask you, Alexander Alexanderovich, to put this law to the vote. And I ask that all MPs who have a historical memory with responsibility vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u14	Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u15	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Alexandrovich, I address you personally. You are an experienced parliamentarian today, headed by the Supreme Council. You have entrusted this position to you as a person who, even today, under the rules of the Supreme Council, does not regard any faction, you must take a neutral position. And do not impose your personal position on Parliament in any way. The rule of law states that if a bill or draft regulation is not supported by the Supreme Council, if the issue is not supported by the Supreme Council, it is not entitled to be reconsidered at that session. We now see that the Supreme Council, for the most part, did not support the proposal to put on the agenda the draft Act on the so-called famine. Therefore, please ask my personal position to be presented elsewhere, but not as President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u16	Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u17	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. I have no doubt that this issue will be supported by the entire Parliament. That's why I'm referring the word to Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u18	Boris, Bezpalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the bill, which has been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent and must therefore be included without a vote in the agenda. At the same time, if the Supreme Council wants to demonstrate an act of solidarity, an act of respect, an act of memory, its memory of the hungry, it can vote for inclusion. But we have no doubt that I, like Lilia Grigorovich, have no doubt that we all remember this tragedy. Anyone who does not remember who has no memory has no future. We're all aware of that. And that is why the faction “Our Ukraine” proposes and insists that the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine, as an urgent matter, be voted today both on the basis and in general. This is our moral obligation before the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u19	I give my word to Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u20	Vladimir Moisik, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to your colleague, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u21	Mikola Catherinechuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear National Deputies! Today we have to carry out our historic mission, we have to put a dot in the consciences we have regarding the crime that has taken place against the Ukrainian people. Alexander Aleksandrovich, please help the people's deputies. Give them the opportunity to vote and show their political evaluation to those actions that have been done in the past, because this past does not allow us to move forward. Alexander Aleksandrovich, the President's actions he's introducing, they, if recognized as urgent, take a vote without including them in the agenda. Please follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u22	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u23	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I'm sitting right in front of you and I'm not going anywhere in this place. I think there is no doubt in this room that Yavorowski voted in favour of including this issue in the order of the day. However, the result is that I did not vote. That's one reason. Second, distinguished national MPs, we are facing history today. Maybe more than ever. The great tribulation of our people, if we do not gather today, will not discuss this issue and will not make the decision that historic justice requires. It's a sin to be priced, believe me! I beg you, Alexander Alexander, there are many reasons why we should put the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u25	Acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I want to explain the position of the faction of the Party of Regions that did not support this issue. The point is, I want to draw your attention to the conclusion of the Chief Executive. I ask him to look closely, it clearly states that these bills cannot be regarded as laws. They can be considered a declaration or a statement. And I want to bring you back to the ruling of the Supreme Council, which will be adopted at the special meeting of the Supreme Council on 15 May 2003, when the ruling and the appeal to the Ukrainian people were adopted, and to each other, what the President is proposing to us today at the Supreme Council to establish as a law. Therefore, as a law-abiding citizen, and therefore when the experts of the Rules call upon us to comply with the Rules and Law, I believe, and the faction believes that this issue cannot be addressed today in a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u27	I am responding to the challenges that have been made to me here on different sides of the world. To the representative of Alexandria. I know I'm the head of the Supreme Council now. But if we don't want to look at it from a very clear point of view, I don't appreciate it. I'd like you to know that. First. It's different. Any questions, I refer to Bespalogo's reply, any questions, clarifications of the Constitutional Court in this regard, are included in the Supreme Council's agenda. Therefore, they need to be included and considered. Next. Vasil Alexiyovich, the conclusion of the expert management is not dogma. And if that were the case, we wouldn't be looking at a session of questions. We'd just give it to the expert board and sign these papers. The Supreme Council will be appointed. The issue of inclusion is also being considered, and the final conclusions will be adopted by the Supreme Council. Maybe it'll actually come together on another formula. So if I was convincing to you in explaining these positions, and considering what a few had to say and what they had not. For clear reasons their vote has not been taken into account, I ask you to put a question to the vote on the return to the vote on this matter. Please. [[10:43:25]] For 228 Decision taken. I'm putting to the vote a question to put into the agenda of this issue. By factions, please announce. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 120, “Our Ukraine” – 75, SPI – 30, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. I put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making on this issue. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. Name examples. [[10:44:10]] For 227 Decision taken. I have the floor for the report, and the representative of the President has the floor for the report, please, Yukhnovski Igor Rafailovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u28	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished MPs. In my report, we're going to talk about the Goldilocks Act for 32-33 years. This topic is revealed in many books, both in Ukraine and abroad. There are also living witnesses. Our historians have provided irrefutable evidence of the intentional organization of Holodomor under the Stalin regime. Based on this evidence, the events of the last months of the year 32 and the first half of the year 33 should be treated as genocide. This is one of the definitions of genocide given by the 48th International Convention. genocide is considered to be an act that is committed to the destruction of a whole or part of any national ethnic, racial or religious group as such, namely, deliberately creating for any group such living conditions as are calculated for the total or partial physical destruction of it. How did this start in Ukraine? By substituting Ukraine's villages with disproportionately high taxes of between 5 million and 6 million on the Blackboard. The villagers seek rescue in Russia and Belarus. On January 21, 33, the CTC (b) and RNA prohibits the entry of peasants outside Ukraine and officially prohibits the sale of railway tickets to peasants. The parties are banning peasants from entering the cities. Villages are starving to death. The Republic is surrounded both from the outside and from the inside, and the area of extinction is defined. There is also the political sarcasm of the regime. Starving families could buy bread for gold, silver, and diamonds. There were 252 Shops called Shops, where jewelers were traded, receiving gold and silver ornaments. Thus, in 32 to 33 years, gold is given in the form of 71 tons, and silver is 1,440 tons. But the earring weighs 5 to 6 grams. How many of those victims were there?Oh, my God! Ukraine’s public losses can be estimated at close range. We used the census data for 26 and 39 years. In the 26th year, there were 31 million people in Ukraine. In the 39th year, 28 million. The average increase in the USSR in 12 years was 12 percent. This meant that there would be 36 million without famine in Ukraine. So at least 8 million is lost. And that's not all. The entire nation has suffered a terrible, incurable wound, a debilitating human dignity, a deformity of the genetics of the nation. Thirty percent of Ukrainians lose their native language. Only extremely deformed people can forget that. These sacrifices call for an act of recognition and repentance. This is a matter of honor and honor for all the Ukrainian people. The basics of these laws. First. A 32-33-year-old famine is a genocide of the Ukrainian nation. Item two. There is no public objection to the fact of famine, the genocide of 32-33. Paragraph three. The authorities are obliged to bury the remains of the dead and to care for those left behind. Paragraph 4. The Institute of National Memory as the central body of executive power called for the implementation of State policy in the area of the restoration and preservation of the nation’s national memory. Article 5. There is a need to allocate funds to build a memorial for victims of hunger. Article 6. Determined as an administrative penalty for public denial of genocide. What about the perpetrators of these terrible tortures? They must be revealed and forgiven. Their action is an unendurable example of utopian messianicism, it should be a warning to us, and it should be a failure to allow one-person flirting. The law must be adopted in full. Let us cleanse ourselves of that terrible burden of the past, and let us remove sin by repentance and peace for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u29	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. The word is given by Udovenko Hennady Josephovich of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. Please. Sorry, sorry. Zabarski Vjacheslav Valeriyovich with an alternative project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u30	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected chairman, respected colleagues. In the geological divide of modern Ukrainian society, diametrically opposite approaches play an important role in assessing a number of past phenomena. Each of them is followed by a tone of extremes on one side or on the other. This does not promote reconciliation of views or the establishment of historical truths. Society is in dire need of consolidation and this would be facilitated by a civilized dialogue, a reconciliation perspective that takes into account the fair points in each of the opposite sides. Today it is undeniable that the terrible tragedy of the Ukrainian people -- the famine of 1932-1933 -- and the fact that this tragedy has resulted from the criminal actions of politicians of a higher totalitarian state. At the same time, there is a political and scientific debate on its aims and scope, as well as the recognition of famine by genocide. The president of Ukraine and a large number of politicians and scientists clearly appreciate famine as genocide. And the international recognition of famine was declared by the President as one of Ukraine’s most important goals. That's exactly what the President's assessment said in the project. At the same time, the concept of genocide is defined by the norms of international law implemented in national legislation and cannot be interpreted freely for the benefit of any political force. The very term composed of the Greek “genos” - race, tribe and Latin “cido” - is murder. In accordance with the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 9 December 1948, genocide refers to acts that are carried out with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, any national, racial or religious group as such. The approval of the convention took place at the United Nations. Because when you read the exact definition of genocide to recognize the specific mass destruction of people by genocide, you have to prove that its organizers destroyed people because they were representatives of a particular nationality, race or religion, not for any other reason. Meanwhile, according to historians, hunger in the Soviet Union in the early 1930s did not recognize ethnic or national boundaries. In addition to Ukraine, where the victims were particularly significant, famine affected the regions of the Middle, Lower Volga, Zavolzhya, Ural, Western and Southern Siberia, the North Caucasus, Kazakhstan, Priamura, and the Southern Central Black Land of Russia. As a result, millions of people of different ethnic backgrounds died. Thus, all the basic bread regions of the Soviet Union were desecrated. Today, the main international document on this subject, a compatible declaration on famine in Ukraine signed in November 2003 by delegations from Ukraine, Russia, the United States, Canada, Italy, and a number of other countries. And he's registered as an official document by the General Assembly of the United Nations. For the first time in UN history, famine in Ukraine is recognized as a tragedy caused by the totalitarian regime. But the term “genocide ” is not used. The problem of assessing the Holocaust as well as other crimes of that period is not only moral and legal but also extremely acute political. It is in itself a noble desire for moral responsibility and the restoration of historical justice that can be used in the pursuit of a multi-track policy-ideological game that has a bearing, not on history, but on the events of the most modern, and aimed at demoralizing and weakening the positions of those or other groups in the elite of society. We believe that it is necessary to create an ideological atmosphere that will allow for a fair conviction in Ukraine of any mass crimes committed by both the Stalin regime and its opponents, without allowing political forces interested in our country's conflict with its neighbours. It is important that historical memory be shaped on the basis of condemning any crimes of this kind, regardless of who committed them and what ideological conjuncture today. Such an approach would allow for the maintenance of ideological parity between the various political forces and at the same time be truly moral. In addition, in Ukraine genocide is recognized as a criminal offence. And according to article 442 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine for acts deliberately committed for the purpose of the total or partial destruction of any national, ethnic, racial or religious group by taking out the lives of members of such a group or causing them serious bodily harm or creating for a group of living conditions calculated for total or partial destruction, criminal responsibility has been established. The Supreme Council is a legislative body, and it does not have the right to be convicted of criminal offences. According to article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution, justice in Ukraine is exercised exclusively by courts. It is not possible to delegate the functions of the courts and to assign them to other authorities or officials. Thus, the recognition of Holodomor by genocide beyond the criminal process envisaged by the Ukrainian legislation and by such a legal and regulatory act as the law contravenes the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize once again: we believe that the Stalin regime has committed a robbery that was the essence of destroying the existing structure of agriculture by mass-breeding peasants, by forcefully introducing collectiveization, and by imposing on the areas of Ukraine the disproportionately high plans of the farmer. The isolation of large areas in rural areas in a number of areas of Ukraine through the removal of peasants from the right to have a passport, the ban on peasants from their places of residence, the arrest of peasants who left the countryside voluntarily, the armed forces of the penal authorities throughout the territories, and the introduction of a special residence regime, such as the blackboard regime. The issue of the need to draft a bill that would give a political and legal assessment of hunger in 1932-33 years was repeatedly violated during parliamentary hearings and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 6 March 2003. The alternative bill aims at restoring historical justice through the provision of a political and legal assessment of the 1932-33 famine in Ukraine, ensuring proper respect for victims and victims of hunger, establishing in society intolerance to all forms of violence, defining the tasks of the public authorities and the authorized central executive body in this area. The main position of Ukraine's alternative draft of the Holodomor Act of 1932-1933 in Ukraine is recognition of the famine of 32-33 years as a violation of the Stalin regime against humanity, the national tragedy of the Ukrainian people. This is how the bill qualifies this famine. He condemns the denial of hunger and describes it as a violation of the memory of millions of victims of famine, the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people, the duty of the authorities and local authorities in Ukraine to perpetuate the memory of victims and victims of hunger; he guarantees State support for research and measures to perpetuate the memory of the victims of famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933. It obliges the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Kyiv City State Administration to ensure that construction in Kiev is provided in an orderly manner up to the 75th anniversary of the Holodomor. The law does not require additional budgetary expenditure in 2006, as funding of these measures is budgeted. The adoption of this law has an extremely important social and moral and political significance, especially before the 75th anniversary of the 32rd to 33rd anniversary of the famine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u31	Are there no questions? There's a question. Please sign up for the questions. Five minutes, six minutes, 'cause there's gonna be a question-answer. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u32	Why didn't you vote in favour of joining your own project? I give the floor to Liya Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u33	You either use your word or pass it on. Such order is defined in the Rules. Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u34	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, I'm asking you this question, to Taras Crnovol, to the benefactors of Zvaric and Liczuk of the Party of Regions, to many others. You used the word "crime," you used the word "blackboards". Tell me, please, when villages are introduced into the blackboards in Ukraine, when there are security forces that don't release peasants from the countryside when they don't allow them to take train tickets to Ukrainian peasants, is that violence or not genocide? That's the first one. The other one. I ask you very much, Your Honor, not to be afraid of the memory of the ten million innocently murdered and to think of the sight of you today of the entire Ukrainian people and of the whole world that has confessed to the Holocaust by genocide. Are you not afraid for the fate of your children? Have you thought about what you're doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u36	Everything you're saying, all the examples you've given, we recognize and say that this is really a crime. We are saying that in the understanding that genocide is defined by international law and national law, we cannot say that it is genocide, since it has not been determined so far that these acts have been directed exclusively against Ukrainians. All those who lived in Ukraine at the time suffered this scourge. And hunger knew neither ethnic nor national boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u37	Thank you. Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u38	The honourable reporter, well, there's no point in arguing that the famine in Ukraine was organized, it was a real genocide, because there are hundreds and thousands of testimonies when our Ukrainian peasants crossed the NCSC border into Cuba. And there was no famine in the Russian villages of Kubani. They were surprised. Where there were Ukrainian stations, the same thing was done in Ukraine. But I would like to ask you: How does a Ukrainian representative in the United Nations question the recognition of genocide? When the Supreme Council of Ukraine refuses to acknowledge this fact, which is absolutely resounding to the memory of millions who have died. Did you know that the United Nations has special funds for nations that have endured genocide or the Holocaust? How can we access these funds? And that's one question. Another question is, Do you know where the common criminal process established the Holocaust of the Jews? Nowhere, in any state, has the ordinary criminal process been established. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u39	Let's start with the last question. There was the Nuremberg trial, there was the Nuremberg Tribunal, which had established Holocaust atrocities. Well, on special funds and so on, it is very difficult for me to answer this question and comment on it, because it seemed to me that the main task of this bill was to perpetuate the memory of the dead, not to earn another time on it. This is similar to the request of professional Ukrainians who always earn three perennial benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u40	A chariot, please. I'm asking for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u41	I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u42	Kolechenko asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u43	Koleschenko, Party of the Regions. Honourable Rapporteur, a few questions. First, for 10 years now, the data of the BSP and the KGB have been disclosed, whether there is one document that specifically states that acts of famine have been directed against the Ukrainian nation. First question. The second question is whether it is true that the United Nations has refused to recognize Ukrainian genocide. Genocide against the Ukrainian people? And the third question is, please tell me, how do you assess that the open and officially known decision of the SC WCRB of the 32nd year to send 232 tons of bread to the starving Ukraine is genocide or how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u44	With regard to the documents that have been classified so far, I visited yesterday specifically the exhibition entitled “Secret Memory”, there is a mass of documents that confirm the same point in both bills that it was the crime of the State, the crime of the totalitarian regime. There's not a single document, and I don't think anyone will be able to bring it to me right now and show me where it's said to destroy farmers on a national basis. This is purely a class political struggle. Those criminal cases that are presented there, those indictments, those party documents speak only of breadmaking and the destruction of a class enemy, let us speak of them. As to whether I consider genocide or not, I have expressed my opinion, and I do not think that I should go back to that. The United Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u45	Please bet in one minute. Karpuk, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u46	It seems strange and immoral when people talk about honoring the memory of the victims of famine, and at the same time they do not call it a crime, they do not call the perpetrators of crime. First of all, they were Communists, because even in the villages that had died, the Communists were given specialties and fats. I'll pass on the word to Ruslani Lice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u47	Is that a question? That's a separate thought. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u48	No, it's not. I do. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm here. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u49	Wait. There is a rule of law – either a voice, a right to vote, or a person speaking. And that's what happens next. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u50	I wanted to say first of all, thank you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, because my card didn't vote for the first time, although no one in this room doubts that Ruslana is voting for this law. I have a question for the reporter. Please tell us that you have no doubt that the history of Ukraine is distorted. And there's a lot of manipulated facts. I'm sure you know exactly that today's attempt to change the law is another substitute for the fact that the murdered Ukraine was a famine, and it's a terrible crime. I ask you not to look for an opportunity to leave today with an absolutely sharp question. Sorry for the aggressive tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u51	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u52	Once again, I stress that by recognizing the fact that the regime has been broken against the Ukrainian people, I am speaking about the fact that we cannot legally establish a crime. We can't, because we can go that far.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u53	Crime, but not genocide, which. This is about stealing against mankind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We're on the Conciliation Council yesterday. Ah, the head of the committee. Please, Gennady Josephovich, stand by the Human Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u55	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Holodomor Act of 32-33 years in Ukraine, which is proposed for your consideration, submitted to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. He, this law, aims to restore historical justice by giving a political and legal assessment of the 32-33 years of famine in Ukraine as a genocide of the Ukrainian people, ensuring proper respect for the victims and victims of the Holocaust, establishing in society intolerance to all forms of violence. The bill, among other things, establishes administrative responsibility for the public denial of the 32-33 years of the Holocaust in Ukraine. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations considered the President's bill at its meeting. Members of the committee, regardless of their political orientations, have recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis despite differing views on the origins of this tragedy, understanding the obligation to honor the memory of innocent victims in various parts of Ukraine. The comments that will be made today, and the scientific expertise, will be taken into account in further work on the bill. In particular, the Head of the Supreme Council also made his proposals to the bill. It should be noted that between 2002 and this time, the Supreme Council passed 4 decrees, 4 decrees issued by the President of Ukraine, and 2 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine related to the Netherlands for 32-33 years. This famine in Ukraine has been acknowledged by 11 parliaments as a terrible phenomenon of genocide. The General Assembly of the United Nations at its 58th session approved a special statement on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the great famine in Ukraine, Holodomor, and condemned it. And it wasn't random, because I'm going to remind you of two scary numbers. During the Holodomor period of 32 to 33 years, the average life expectancy in Ukraine was 8 years, and the average life expectancy was 10 years. Here we are today, the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation. The nation is not dying, nor is it because, as some of these rostrums today have claimed, this famine continues in Ukraine. The political famine was when the Yushchenka government was removed from retirement, but it was me, not the committee. The truth about Holodomor is no longer enough for us as for the millions of Ukrainians who have perished innocently, and our descendants should always remember the value of freedom and independence of our nation. The President’s draft stipulates that I would like to emphasize, at least, what we can do to perpetuate the memory of the innocent. Practical measures were proposed as early as 2003. I would like to point out that Ukraine has celebrated the 70th anniversary of the famine in 1932-1933. The then Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, personally headed the organizational committee. I was sitting on this committee when he presided over it. He gave a very profound description of the tragedy that took place in the past. I'm very sorry that today's faction is practically, you probably don't know what Janukovich did very much at the time to confess, to honor the victims of the famine. Now, with regard to the proposed bill 2470-1, it has already been amended. The committee had no opportunity to consider the bill. But the changes relate to two main things. The wording for the recognition of famine by genocide has been deleted and the removal of the prohibition of denial of hunger and administrative responsibility for it. I ask the people's deputies to support the committee's decision and to adopt Bill 2470, tabled by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u56	Is there a question to Hennady Josephovich? Sign up, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u57	No earrings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u58	There are earrings, there are earrings. And they'll talk loud, you'll hear. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u59	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist faction, Baranowski. May I have a word with Mendus?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u60	Jaroslav Petrovich, please, Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u61	Please tell me, why do you think the bill is being tabled today instead of being introduced and discussed a year and a half ago, two years ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u62	Because the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings of the Supreme Council were not implemented in 2003. The Cabinet of Ministers was then assigned, and these parliamentary recommendations were approved by the Supreme Council. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was tasked with developing and introducing a bill to the Supreme Council on the recognition of famine by genocide in 32-33 years. That was four times during the parliamentary hearing, at a special meeting on May 3, 2003, the Supreme Council recognized this as genocide of the Ukrainian people. But there was no law. That is why the President of Ukraine, apparently responding to those calls from the Supreme Council, prepared such a project. And the second. We ask this question in the United Nations. I have personally met with many permanent representatives at
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u64	Alexander Alexanderovich, very important. We are told: “There is no law in you in Ukraine. You, Parliament, have not adopted the law.” When I talk about bringing Parliament to the Ukrainian people, it's not a law. That is why the president wanted the bill to be adopted the day before the victims of famine, famine, and political repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u65	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u66	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Gennady Esipovich, that's the first question. You are a professional high-level politician, why have you not taken the initiative to recognize the American genocide against the indigenous people of India? This time. And the second question. Please tell me, will the nation consolidate the bill that the President has tabled today?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u67	On the first question, a mystery can be revealed. I didn't violate this issue of genocide against the American people and I won't violate it, and the Americans asked me not to violate it for the Soviet Union's time, not to violate the General Assembly's issue of decolonization when discussing Ukraine's exit from the Soviet Union. That was such a gentleman's arrangement. [[Congrats]] But I had to say that for the first time, the representative of the Communist Party commended me. I'm very grateful that you started this. And the second question. Yes, it will. You know, talking about the division of the Ukrainian people or the Ukrainian nation is designed for us, for you politicians. People, ordinary people today think absolutely different -- the standard of living that we have today, that will unite us. That's all the Chernobyl program he's put up, the poverty control program.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u68	Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u69	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Gennady Josephovich, of course I understand that you will give a political answer to any question. And that's what the previous answers showed well. But I want to ask you one particular question. You claim that other States, in the Parliament of States, have recognized the genocide of Ukraine, i.e. supported that position. I'd like to object to that. There's no such thing. Indeed, in three Baltic countries, Georgia, the United States of America, there is a fact that what happened in Ukraine at that time was recognized as genocide at the level of parliamentary committees, but not in Parliament. There is no such decision, the United Nations resolutions and not because we do not have such a bill, but because the document adopted at the UN does not speak of genocide, not of hunger, but of hunger, of facts that no one in this room denies and cannot deny. I therefore assess your President's position as purely political, leading to psychosis in Ukraine and the division of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u70	I think it's not a question, it's a statement of position, but I'm going to comment on a few words. First. The word famine was born at an American convention in the United States. Wait. When you were afraid, and I was afraid to say that word, because if I said that there was a famine at the time, and we thought that, the provocation of the United States was, yes, the American Congress, I took the convention, both chambers made the decision, not a committee of some kind, but a convention. Moreover, from federal lands, the convention decided to allocate land to Ukraine to build a monument to the victims of the famine. We haven't built such a monument yet, we've just built a memorial -- to honor 6-8-10 million people who died during the famine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u71	Have a seat, please. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council established an order for consideration of the matter. I'm asking for your attention. From each faction, its position will be expressed by one of the representatives. Five minutes to go. Please sign up. That's how the Conciliation Board defined it yesterday. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. It's from the Communists. The pigeon from the Communists is speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The terrible famine of 32 to 33 years is the tragedy of millions of people: Ukrainians, Kazakhs, Jews, Russians, Poles, other nations and peoples. On January 26, 1990, the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine adopted a hunger decree of the 32-33 years in Ukraine and a publication related to it. The Communists recognized and condemned the violent methods of collectiveization and the destructive farming policy, which, in combination with unprecedented drought and infertility, resulted in that terrible catastrophe. The names of the party and farm leaders of Ukraine who were guilty of mistakes and crimes were named. What about the bill proposed by the President? It is his unconstitutionality and legal ignorance that has been proven by the scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council. Moreover, it is built on false facts. Gennady Josephovich, about your speech. None of the United States Assembly Halls made a decision on genocide in Ukraine. I would like to say that the Polish Seima did not make a decision about the genocide in Ukraine, but rather that it understood the Ukrainian aspirations to admit it, so it is not necessary to mislead either the deputies or our voters. The authors of the bill are trying to convince society that the adoption of the bill would seem to contribute to the restoration of historical justice, the consolidation of the Ukrainian people, and the increase of the authority of Ukraine in the world. However, obviously another thing: the tragic fate of the people is not concerned about the President and his fellow thinkers. The main reason and the main threat of the Presidential Bill is the use of human tragedy to create the illusion of choosing the Ukrainian ethnos and to form a social environment on this basis to spread the ideology and practice of neofascism. By the way, there are concrete facts. Recently, in Lviv, in the township region, a cemetery was destroyed, I emphasize, on the cemetery a monument to the heroes of the Great Homeland War. There has been a wave of xenophobia in Ukraine. In fact, some supporters of the National Democratic Forces agreed that the shootings at Baba's Yar had been justified. The history of the multinational Ukraine is filled with heroic and tragic pages. There was also a common fight against an external enemy, there were internal religious and national conflicts, and we should be very careful when we try to evaluate things from the height of today. We are therefore convinced that the bill proposed by the President is a political provocation, an anti-historic and non-legal bill can in fact cause and already in Ukraine a chain reaction to the opposition in society. It will lead to tensions between Russia and Ukraine. Finally, we must give our hands to those politicians who are trying to earn their dirty political capital in the great tragedy of the people. Let us leave history to historians, and let us take care of the living Ukrainians. Because of your reforms, my dear. National Democrats, the United Nations has already placed the Ukrainian nation on the dying list. To hide your crimes today, you are organizing a political show instead of a Day of Remembrance and Grief. I address the audience in the hall. You and I share the responsibility for the future, we are responsible for international peace and social peace in the state. We are responsible for ensuring that the Ukrainian, Russian, Jew, and Tatars never look at each other through a cut. The KPU faction therefore calls for the lack of support for a bill tabled by the President, such as one that is contrary to the Constitution, violates human rights and freedoms to think and express their thoughts freely, as one that threatens Ukraine's national security. And I have to admit that today the main destabilizing force exerted in Ukraine is, unfortunately, the President of Ukraine. And it's time to ask the question of the impeachment of this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u73	I'm asking for your attention. Please, we are so tolerant of this issue that I would ask you not to violate it. Please. Kirilenko from "Our Ukraine" is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u74	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. As a witness, Goroško Katerina Fedorovna, born in 1915, Lochvitsa in Poltava. They went to the house and scavenged everything they could eat: flour, potatoes, beets, corn. There was no dog left on the streets, no cat. All pigeons, sparrows were shot. There were, you go on the road, and how many children were dead, and there were adults, and no one was cleaning them. That's how they were human and not buried. We had seven children in our family. There was only three of us." As evidenced by Polyeuve Julia Hennadivna, born in 1921, the village of Toshkovka, the First-Major Miskrad of Lugansk Region. "These were very difficult years. The blame, of course, was power, and hunger was artificial. People came out of the silage and took everything they saw, beat, how they saw it -- and didn't watch it, whether it was children or adults. Only those who were in power and their families were not hungry. They ate everything they could, everything they saw. They all ate: both cats, and rats, and dogs. The children were lured into eating them. These people were taken from the dead, protected together, in one pit.” Little Hope of Joseph, Dnipropetrovština, 13 years old during the famine. "Since the summer of 1932, everyone knew that there would be hunger, because they wouldn't give anything or give anything in the farm. People were throwing themselves around, picking up stakes. One day my mother’s childhood friend Maria came to us, all nervous, shaking, legs swollen, in wounds, like crazy. I told her how her three - year - old daughter, Love, had died. She cut it open and cooked it, and she buried the bones in the garden. Three older brothers ate that stew, and it did not save their mother. Two died: Petrik and Shura.” Honorary colleagues would not have had the year of plenary meetings of the Ukrainian Parliament to read them all. This testimony is a confirmation of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. The Holocaust of the 32rd to 33rd years must be recognized by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, because genocide according to the 1948 UN Convention means actions taken with the intention of destroying entirely or in part any national, ethnic, racial or religious group, and paragraph (c) of the second article clearly states that genocide is also a deliberate creation for any group of such living conditions that are designed for the complete or partial physical destruction of it. These conditions created conditions of artificial hunger, famine. 2 proofs of the ethnic nature of the genocide of the Ukrainian people: after the November decisions to ban all trade and eliminate all food, Soviet Communist authorities decided in January to ban the departure from Ukraine and Cuba, where 80% of the ethnic Ukrainians lived, all peasants. They were forcibly hunted, brought back to their already empty villages. There was no such ban on going out in any other territory that was then hungry. The figures, according to the census of the 37th year, those who conducted it were then repressed by a steel machine, the population of the USSR from 26th to 37th grew by 20%, the population of the Ukrainian Russian Federation decreased by 16%. The 39th year census, already recognized by the Soviet machine, was poorly adjusted and the population of the Soviet Union increased by 16%, with the population of the Ukrainian Soviet Union falling by 10%. In any case, don't count it, but the Ukrainians suffered irreversible ethnic losses during this, artificially created hunger. And that's why it's the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Regarding those who say that the adoption of our bill will lead to a complication of relations with Russia, article 4 of the UN Convention says that those who commit genocide are subject to punishment, individuals, not countries, not governments. The adoption of our law will not cause any complications with the Russian Federation. Complications will arise with the fifth column. The one who organized this famine and now protects as political descendants the organizers of this famine. The “Our Ukraine” faction urges two factions of the ruling coalition to vote in favour of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. We welcome the presence of the head of the Supreme Council, who was with the president on Saturday and honored the memory of the victims of the famine with all the Ukrainian people. We believe that the Party of Regions, because the most affected people in Donbas and in the East, will support this bill. And today, as a whole, and not in the first reading, we will adopt the Presidential Bill on the Recognition of Hunger by the Genocide of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u75	The word is given by Hara Vasil Grigorovich of the faction “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u76	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today we are dealing with a very mixed and very painful issue for our very tired society. Our faction is convinced that there is not a single person in the session room who believes that the solution proposed by President Yushchenko and his supporters will stop the continued disunity of our society and calm the souls of the victims of the famine. If we want to establish historical justice, bring together a civil nation, create a historical memory in which famine must take place, that the Holocaust in the memory of the Jews and genocide in the memory of the Armenians, we must stop political shamanism, not engage in the pursuit of historical facts, not to manipulate statistics, not to try to earn political dividends in the terrible tragedy of the people and not to impose endless conflicts within and outside our society. At the deepest conviction of the faction of the Party of the Regions, today we must simply maintain historical purity. The fact of famine is recognized both within the country and by the world community. The discussion is only about its objectives and the magnitude of the tragedy, if any. The question of objectives, in principle, today does not provide a clear answer as to how these objectives were not formulated in public documents, and investigators are addressing this issue solely on the basis of their world view. I repeat that to date, no disaggregated or unscrupulous document has been submitted by researchers to identify the objectives of which would be the definition of genocide. The definition of “genocide” gives rise to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, adopted by the United Nations in 1948. Genocide means action with the intention of destroying a whole and a part of any nation, racial and religious group as such. To date, experts and the world public have unanimously recognized a relatively limited number of mass crimes, but I note that not all Governments in general have unanimously recognized genocide. The most famous of them is the destruction of Armenians in Turkey in 1915-1916, the Jewish Holocaust and the destruction of the Roma by the Nazis. In all three cases, there is no doubt that it is the nationality of the victims of crimes that has caused their destruction. The palaces themselves have confirmed this in numerous documents and instructions. In all its history, the United Nations has never decided to recognize genocide as any crime, including the cuts of Armenians or the Holocaust. This was not done in connection with Ukraine's appeal in 1993, limited to a joint statement on hunger in Ukraine and signed by the delegations of Ukraine, Russia, the United States, Canada, Italy on behalf of the EU and other countries. For the first time in the history of the UN, famine in Ukraine is recognized as a tragedy caused by the totalitarian regime. A famine is a tragedy, but not a genocide. And it's not an accident. It is understandable that the recognition of mass destruction by genocide requires unconditional evidence that its organizers destroyed people because they were represented by a certain nation, race and religion, not for any other reason. We all know that hunger in the USSR had no ethnic boundaries. In addition to Ukraine, where the victims were particularly significant, famine affected the regions of Central, Lower Volga, Zavolzhya, Urala, Western, Southern Siberia, Caucasus, Kazakhstan, South, Central Montenegro, Russia and so on. Millions of people of different ethnic backgrounds died as a result. And in Ukraine itself. What are you going to do? Last week, I was in my native Greek village of Bugas, Donetskin. The old men asked me about the purpose of all this noise around the genocide and asked me the question of the ribs: "What is it that the gushing and starving Greeks of Ukraine do not count? Is that outside the famine? Beyond genocide? And millions of Russians and representatives of one hundred nationalities in the USSR have died differently than the Ukrainians?" They feel humiliated. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions calls upon you not to engage in speculation about the terrible tragedy of our people. It's not human. Parliament must only recognize what really happened. The President's call to the Supreme Council for the recognition of genocide cannot be recognized, conveyed, shaken. It is not possible to encourage the political forces that seek a completely different, not historical truth and justice, but to create an atmosphere hostile to Russia, to grant it to the Russian people as the culprits of Holodomor and genocide, to present Russia as the successor to the accounts of material and moral. I refer to you on the Truth of Ukraine website, please read. The Party, the faction of the Party of the Regions, recognizes the Holocaust as a fact of mass destruction, but there is no legal basis for talking about the term genocide in the international understanding of the word. This is the principled position of our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u77	He has a word, which one of you? Turkinov is from the faction “Blok Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u78	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies. Today in this room, we are looking at more than just a draft of the Holodomor Act. Today, we all have to pass the historical memory exam, the feeling of deep sorrow for millions of Ukrainians who have been tortured, the test of humanism, the humanism of humanity. And the ability to give a fair assessment of the terrible tragedy once and for all. It's a moment of truth, dear colleagues. In this room, we must answer whether this great famine has permanently broken the back of the Ukrainian nation, whether it is in the person of its national protagonists, the people who claim to be the national elite, yet will find the courage to recognize that terrible famine as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people and will lead, first of all, to all the civilized world that can defend its honour, dignity, and memory of its mutilated ancestors. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider that for the first time in world history food, food, bread were used as weapons of mass destruction. It's scary, but it's a fact. And I would like to refer to colleagues who represent the faction of the “Regions”, who were also elected in our country, in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you know, you don't have to play terms, you don't have to talk about support when you don't want to really support this law. I want to tell you that the law, and now we're talking about the law, and I'm talking to the authors of the alternative bill. It cannot contain any emotion in its composition. We should appeal to legal terms. And I'm pointing out to you that genocide is a specific legal term that reveals the phenomenon in all its terrible depths and allows us to make the necessary and faithful conclusions at any time in order to never be repeated on our earth again. Won't anyone today have a hand to vote for this law? Are we to put ourselves before the world as a nation in which the genetic memory of famines and reprisals has been destroyed, and we will prove once again our inferiority and this prophetic one: “Whose parents are we children? ” To my profound conviction, the adoption of this law should take place by special procedure. I'm here to address you, the head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Moroz. There is no law on the recognition of famine in several readings. A famine can be recognized as genocide or not, and a dot. Without all the readings. Because it would be sacred if this project began to rule and remove its contents. Then the situation will simply lead to absurdity. And you and I are going to be very ashamed of what we've accepted. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you all to forget any political quarrels, forget any political opposition that was during the elections, sympathy and antipathy. It is the memory of millions, of our descendants whom we want to take away their past. And then we take away all of their futures. Now, your honors, I am very, very sorry that today this law is not represented by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko of Ukraine. I really wanted him to look at the anti-crisis coalition representatives with whom he negotiated and signed the Universal of National Unity. Dear colleagues, let us now really demonstrate our unity, our respectable colleagues, our unity and our joint vote on this bill. And before I press the button, I would ask each of you just to mention the little children, the elderly, millions to remember, the millions who were starving to death. Dear friends, they require us to adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u79	The word comes from the faction of socialists Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u80	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. A crime committed by the Stalin regime in 1932-1933 in Ukraine and other regions of the Soviet Union is certainly genocide. Of course, the Ukrainian authorities must do their utmost to perpetuate the memory of the victims of the famine. [[Applause]] But what we should never do is turn the subject of hunger into a theme of preservation of historical memory into an object of political speculation. Our people have experienced a series of tragedies in modern history that cannot be forgotten: famine, Stalinic repression, the Great Homeland War, the 1946 - 47 famine, the Chernobyl tragedy. The Socialist Party faction supports initiatives related to the preservation of historical memory and the objective disclosure of the past. As early as 2003, the Socialists initiated the appeal of the Supreme Council to the United Nations for recognition of famine by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. We will vote in favour of a bill that takes into account the proposals proposed by Alexander Alexander Moroz and given to the national MPs. But I can't pay attention, not to the fact that the topic of hunger is now being used for political pyar and for the creation of a deliberate political conflict. Unfortunately, the president of Ukraine is also involved in this game. Around the adoption of the bill is created artificial archiving, the bill is called a priority. But why doesn't Viktor Andriyovich explain anywhere the reasons that prevented him from submitting this bill in a hurry for a year and a half or two ago? Then why wasn't the President worried about the subject of hunger, and now suddenly there was a need to resolve the matter in a firefight? Similarly, for two years the President and his environment had every authority to initiate the WTO bill at the right time, but only now did they wake up, raising the noise: rather, we are late. I would like to ask : “Why is it that in the context of the President, important matters of state are being initiated in the order of the owl stormland on a certain date? I recall how the surroundings of Viktor Andriyovich, those who are now underlining the draft legislation on famine, were also in a fire-fighting order agreed at the beginning of the year and from “Roskreenergo” and pushed Ukraine into a debt pit. It seems to me that in Ukraine's failed negotiations with Gazprom, the President's environment should have understood that storms are damaging the interests of the state. I am well aware that Victor Yushchenko is the author of this political provocation linked to the tragedy of famine, but he is the representative of the President’s Secretariat. New anti-crisis managers came to the office to prove their usefulness by creating conflicts between branches of government in the state. The situation of the head of state believes that it is necessary to demonstrate to society the existence of a confrontation between the President and Parliament. And as a result, an artificial subject is brought to light. The President demands the adoption of the bill on hunger, and Parliament refuses to accept it. In fact, the hunger bill will be adopted, I believe it, and the Supreme Council will vote in favour of this bill and put a stop to speculation on this subject. A few words about the content of the bill. The famine is the tragedy of the entire Ukrainian people. As a result, I will repeat it as genocide. But the famine touched every Ukrainian, Russian, Moldovan, Belarusian, everyone who lived then under Stalin’s heel on our earth. And the memory of famine must be preserved not only by ethnic Ukrainians but also by all our citizens, all who claim to be Ukrainians. If we can even distinguish between tragedies by the national sign, it will only fuel xenophobia. And the last. The Ukrainian State must demonstrate objectivity in the preservation of historical truth. It would also be appropriate for the Supreme Council to consider legislation and other tragic pages in the history of our people. I want to point out that so far there has been no solution to the problem of the dumping of hundreds of thousands of compatriots — victims of the Great Homeland War. We have to prove patriotism, not by loud words and political quarrels, but by specific matters. As long as there are no relevant government programs, all the loud words are just a political mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u81	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts from different factions. I regret that we have brought in more than we should have, such political opposition in discussing this subject. But, nevertheless, we have a Parliament. In accordance with the Rules, I have the opportunity and apparently feel obliged to summarize this discussion. I want to go to Parliament with a few suggestions and suggestions. First, in his conversation with the President yesterday, he agreed to make the changes to the bill that I had prepared. They're given to you. First of all, this refers to the addition to the preamble to the sympathy of the peoples of other countries that were formerly members of the Soviet Union, who had sacrificed themselves as a result of the Holocaust. This completely removes the problem of us adopting this law against someone. We accept it to honor the memory of our victims. This takes away any notion of claims against neighbors, confirms the truth about the theft not only of Ukrainian agriculture, but also against Cuba, the curse, Moldova, Belarus, Kazakhstan and various regions of the then Union. Other clarifications are perfectly correct. The replacement of the word “nation” with the word “nation” comes from a constitutional definition and corresponds to the substance of questions. The removal of the article on the status of the Institute of Memory and the commission for this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine corresponds to the constitutional position on government functions. Parliament has no right to take them over. From the point of view of legal engineering, the entire content of the Final Provisions is more appropriate, where attention is focused on the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the laws that are consistent with the Act on the Definition of the Netherlands. The other one. Not only today’s discussion but also the entire story of famine, as well as the repression and other historical facts call the common cause of the disaster, the Stalinic regime. What is its basic purpose? Dictatorship, one-man power. I remind the zealous initiators of the polytreform audit. A single regime has already reduced Ukraine’s population to the level of loss during the Great Homeland War. It is not to be expected that within 70 years we should wait for an assessment of this criminal fact. He is. Now. The only way out of this deadlock is through the development of democracy, the continuation of power reform, the creation of a European governance model. Those who do not understand this need are unable to draw conclusions from the history of their own people. The tragedy of famine is also used as a basis for political speculation, as a political party on the ashes of innocent victims. I have to say this under the impression of individual statements during official Saturdays, in attempts to discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in some of today’s speeches and positions of deputies. Third. The great Cobzar taught us the history of his own people, without passing a title or a coma. There's a lot of instructive evidence at the KGB archive exhibition about initiators, organizers of thefts in the 32-33 years of the last century. There is also sufficient evidence of an army of performers who were in each, consider, village. Democracy creates conditions for turning a person into a citizen, and it inevitably reduces the number of potential manuals. Let us keep this in mind. Not from the archives, but from my family’s accounts, I know that there was a terrible inferno in 1932. The exhibition quoted the secretary of one of the party's Paradises as an injustice to the increased farming plan at the expense of the seven-center crops, while the actual one consisted of three or four centrners. I remind some holy fathers who, contrary to the Constitution, intervene in the affairs of the world, which is about three centrifuges, the standard for the hanging of grains. So they gathered as much as they had sown. Of course, this does not reduce the guilt of the regime before agriculture, which has always been a donor of the state both in royal and Soviet times and in present times. Power in unrequited debt to the village, to the peasants. Four. We cannot vote in favour of this law by 230 votes, 250 votes or 300 votes. We must vote all. Parliament should not silence the truth, it had no right, it was humiliating for the MP. I would like everyone to draw that conclusion from those words. Fifth: The definition. The UN is said to have defined the essence of genocide in a different way from that of Holodomor. We can discuss this. What does "national" mean in the UN definition of genocide? Let's take an Anglo-Russian dictionary here, published in Moscow in 2001. The word “national” is explained as one explanation: “often a citizen of a State subject to an enemy State, a compatriot, a fellow citizen”. No attitude toward the nation. There's no ethno. The UN accidentally writes: "national, ethnic" - because these are different things. But is this the reason for the debate in Parliament? That's not the definition. Let the UN rewrite it. However, in 1948 the members of the World Organization could not have imagined that the State, the authorities, was deliberately lowering its own people, its own peoples. Of course, it's not genocide, it's worse genocide. Everyone who's been involved. Everyone who participated in the discussion in the session hall, in factions, everywhere in society, spoke the truth. I emphasize, I was telling the truth, my truth, but the greatest truth was told in those terrible years by the mother of her hungry child, warning her not to go to school directly, through the meadow, because there, people were eating. It's a terrible truth, and we can't ignore it and call it genocide. I ask to vote on this Law, giving such tribute to millions of victims, confirming that we remember them, that we will never allow anything like this to happen. I'll put the projects on the vote and tell you what sequence, but
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u82	But please, take your seats, please, and don't interfere. At the suggestion of the leaders of the factions of the Socialists and the Regions, before the vote, I announce a recess for half an hour. Thank you. Take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u83	The sitting is continuing. Please take your seats. From the two factions who took the time for the break, Eugen Petrovich Kushnarov has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u84	Fellow citizens of Ukraine, fellow countrymen! In fact, we're looking at a question today that can't help but worry anyone who thinks they're Ukrainian. But we must make a decision that would determine not only the unity of this Parliamentary Hall but also ensure that the whole Ukrainian nation is united. This is not easy, given that we are diversified in ideological matters, but it is essential if we do not see another alternative than a united Ukraine. We are the only ones in recognition of the fact of the famine, and in condemning the regime that caused this human misery. We are the only ones that the state has destroyed people, regardless of their nationality in different parts of the country, primarily by trying to put agriculture on its knees that did not want to follow the path of collectiveization. That is why, and based on the relevant United Nations resolution of 48, we believe that the use of the term “genocide” in that sense, as set out in this resolution, namely “the destruction of people by national, racial or religious significance” cannot be used directly in this law. We insist that we find compromise in this room. In that case, because this word has already been widely used, and the vast majority of our citizens are not familiar with the UN resolution and do not understand these nuances, but you and I understand them in order to complete the article of this law, this law is number one, as we often do in other laws, namely the article on defining terms. And to write it this way: “In this law, the terms are used in this sense: genocide – the theft of the totalitarian and repressive steel regime, aimed at the mass destruction of parts of the Ukrainian and other peoples of the Soviet Union, as a result of the artificial famine of 32-33 years.” We also propose in the preamble to this law, on the second page, in the second paragraph, that we clear the last part where references are made to turning to the World Forum of Ukrainians and turning to citizens because they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u86	They don't have a normative force. And since we live in a democratic society or at least have declared the desire to build a democratic state, we think that any prohibitions, even if they are bad thoughts, do not meet democratic norms. Therefore, in the second article, which goes second here, we propose that the word “banned” be removed, leaving only “recognizable abuse”. So these are the proposals that our faction and I understand in general and coalitions could support if these proposals were taken into account. Since neither in the first edition nor in the second one that is proposed to us for consideration, this is not the case, we think that we need to get the first and the second laws introduced to us to work on them immediately. To entrust this to the Chief of the Supreme Council, who can do it very quickly. And then put the new line to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u87	Please. Please. Question before. Please, come on, wait, we. We never practiced the question after the break. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, calm down. I want it now. Wait, I'll make the procedure, and then you'll have your opinion. Not the same, because I have a microphone, so your right is less than mine. I'm asking for your attention. Take it easy. Today, we will certainly accept this law. Today we're going to adopt this law, where we're going to define it as genocide against the Ukrainian people, but I've made a whole range of proposals that the President and the authors agree with. Thoughts expressed by the coalition, which Eugene Petrovich sounded. There is an insistence that even if we were to consider my proposal, it should be shown in the text in full, not as a supplement to the document. That's why I would ask your permission. Let's vote on this law after 16 hours right away, working it out, taking into account what was discussed here and guaranteeing the definitions that are there. I'm asking you to support this proposal. After 16, we're going to vote on this law. Please. From the procedure? Five minutes for the procedure, please. Okay. Let us consult. Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u88	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u89	Payback, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u90	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. When the 5 National Deputies who are absent in the Hall were included in the agenda of the day, they voted in favour of and are in the hospital, on vacation, on vacation, the surnames are Lukyanko, Bondarenko, King, Stratovic, Rybeka, also absent from Timoshenko Hall, Immortal, Immortal, Prashenko, Kucherenko, who are not, but who voted in favour. So I demand, as Secretary of the Regulatory Committee, that their cards be blocked, that they not be falsified further.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u91	Okay. We're taking your message into account. I wanted to, before we continued to announce your application, she came here before the break. Please, Poljanczich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u93	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u94	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, you made completely acceptable proposals that announced an hour ago and the faction “Our Ukraine” is ready to support them. We cannot support this definition of genocide, which has just been proposed by the representative of the Party of Regions, which is essentially countering the genocide of the Ukrainian people. And so, all of our discussions that have a place in the morning are cooling off. Therefore, we have no right to interrupt the consideration of the issue, it is discussed, all the reports have been made, we, as chairman, now have every reason to put the Presidential Bill on the ground, and then to take into account your amendments and even to adopt today, before lunch, a bill on the recognition of the genocide of the Ukrainian people as a whole. And I don't see any obstacles to that. Let's work on the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u95	Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u97	Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u98	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” block. Alexander Alexanderovich, I have always respected you as a consistent politician, at least in the decisions you have made publicly. I understand. That no honest citizen can vote for famine today, I don't say, a member of the Supreme Council. They're trying to break this procedure. If there was a desire to compromise, it would take time to meet today. So it's no different than trying to break the vote. And I think it will be responsible to put the President's draft to the vote today, to vote after this or at the same time your amendments that are agreed with the author and to adopt this bill. And don't look for more sewing in a bag. I ask you to be consistent. The right of regions to vote, or not, is their conscience. And let's see if they have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u99	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to address the opposition now. Dear colleagues, note what is happening in the hall. A party of regions and the entire coalition is not asking questions about the recognition of famine. Today it's about making a consolidated decision, as Alexander Alexander said, by a consolidated decision of the entire parliament. And we can't vote one day on the basis and the amendments. It is proposed to make a single edition, perhaps now to work out the definition and create such a consolidated voting format that the whole society sees that the Ukrainian Parliament reflects the vision and desire of the entire Ukrainian people, but not just parts of one. I urge you to accept the proposal that you have proposed, Alexander Alexandrovich, and to pass the only bill that we will all vote on together for 16 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u101	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u102	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished deputies! I want every single one of us to feel millions of Ukrainian eyes on this dome right now. It's a super-responsible moment. What is proposed by Deputy Kushnarov, let's say, is unacceptable to me because we don't adopt law for the entire Soviet Union. And when we speak the Ukrainian people, we mean the constitutional standard. These are all people, all the nationalities that live here. Period. Alexander Aleksandrovich, your repairs are being made. It's a normal compromise that we're ready to make. But I ask the soul, Alexander Alexander, to break this question today is not just a moral right. If there is a need for a break, let us take a break now, work on the bill, and start a session at three o’clock, but it must be voted on today. We just don't have the right to break this. I'm sure it will, because it has to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u103	Igor Yukhnovsky speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u104	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies. In general, this law is a law that affects all the people of Ukraine. And it would certainly be good for Parliament to vote unanimously for it. I also think that Mr. Eugene Kushnarov's amendments are, in principle, smart. We can define genocide further, but I would like the first article to define the genocide of the Ukrainian people, not genocide in general in the Soviet Union. Because we're not authorized to do that. And that's why I tend to accept Mr. Frost and Mr. Kushnarov's proposal, to make another joint commission that would agree to this bill and vote after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u105	There's been an exchange, dear colleagues. We're not gonna make a commission. Definitions, calm down, please calm down. You've already made a contribution. Calm down. I would like to remind you again, I have already said, that we will vote on the law in which the article will define what is written today in the President's draft on the genocide of the Ukrainian people. It'll be saved. The clarifications that the panellists are saying today, including my proposals, will be presented in a document that you will be voting together, and you don't have to vote here to see who has a conscience, who doesn't have a conscience, everybody has a conscience, and everybody has a little different. That's what you should be thinking about. And everyone is pursuing another goal, even by voting for this document. That's understandable, too. I'd like to ask you, we have to answer the fundamental question. We condemn everything that has been in our history, we will never return to it, we will never allow it, we will record everything that Igor Rafailovich has told us today, but we need you to vote consciously for what you are giving your vote for, so that you can see what you are voting for. I'll prepare a document if you do so. If you don't want to, your business is to vote what you're proposing. Wait. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please don't yell at me, because I can now close the meetings on the basis of statements from two factions. As for this rule, I will act. So, honourable colleagues, in order to free you from voting, I hereby announce a recess for half an hour on the demand of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-28-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, since consultations are still ongoing, and we must act in accordance with the Rules, as he sets out, so I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The opening of the evening session at 4 p.m.
