ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, radio audiences, TV sets, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists! It's August 2nd. The Supreme Council continues its work. And I would like to say right away that some of the unrestrained statements about the parliamentary crisis are very exaggerated -- it seems to someone who wants it to be real. Parliament works steady, laws are passed. They're signed by the President, by the way. One faction temporarily does not participate in plenary meetings, but it works on committees confidently, everything will be fine. And Parliament will work steadily, effectively, let no one doubt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u2	I'm asking you to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. Please. [[10:02:09]] Registered -302 The morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies, the whole bouquet, Gus Stepan Karlovich, welcome him, Korsakov Alexi Jakovic, who is now being fulfilled twice in 30 years, we welcome him, this round date, we wish him health, although no one is happy about this date, of course, but still this is happening, Kuren Vladimir Kostinović, we welcome him with birthday and Remaruk Alexander Ivanovich, who is now 50 years old. [[Applause]] Let us all wish them all a success in all aspects of life, a future perspective, which, of course, depends on the stability of Parliament's work. So for the next five years, in this respect, let's work together to provide appropriate guarantees. Another thing is, at 12 o'clock today, I'm announcing in advance, faction leaders will meet on the third floor to consider draft law 3207 amendments to the Constitution. I'd like us to actively go through this stage and consider this bill in the session room tomorrow. I declare in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the deputy factions of the Yulia Timoshenko Block of July 18, this year on the election of the deputy heads of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, in addition to the elected deputies, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovich, Hubski Bogdan Vladimirovich, Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovitch and Nemir Grigori Mihajlovich. Let us wish them success in carrying out their important powers of intercessors and leaders of factions. Today, according to the 25th article of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, messages. Please sign up for this. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski. Yulia Timoshenko, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I took these three legitimate MPs to get your memory a little out of the way until yesterday. I want the voters and mine and yours, regardless of the political color, to know, yesterday on behalf of the committee that unanimously supported the idea of the entire Ukrainian community, by the Ukrainian family, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a wrestler for the independence of the Ukrainian state, a man who, in incredibly difficult circumstances, has made the history of Ukraine difficult, difficult in the years of Stalin, famine in 1933. I reported on this nomination yesterday, and unfortunately, the majority of them today claim to be in power in Ukraine have proved their culture, their spirituality. You scream! This proves once again who you really are. Because of this, people are good, if you're as good as John Bagriani, who was put up for the highest prize in the world, the Nobel Prize, to which the Ukrainian authorities posthumously awarded the highest Ukrainian prize, the Taras Shevchenk Prize. The person who was there, abroad, organized a radically democratic party that brought into the patriotic movement social moments and that was actually a social-democratic party. And after that, once again, when the committee unanimously voted for it, you lacked the spirit, you were engrossed in anger and hatred, seeing the opponent in my eyes. I'm not an opponent! I introduced you to John Bagran. And because of that, once again, let people know -- it's your level. Your level of patriotism, your level of responsibility for the state. Because of this, your claim to power in this country is totally unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u4	Please don't quarrel. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please don't argue. I think Vladimir Alexandrovich, everything is going to work out and your faction will sit here and your voices and some others, and everything will be fine. In the meantime, let us return to that question. Please don't be so passionate. Alexander Baranovsky now has the word and he will make peace with you all. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u5	Alexandre Alexandrovich, thank you. I ask you to give the floor to Bok Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u6	Please speak to John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters of Ukraine. I want to say a few words here about our first speaker. I will also agitate you all to vote in favour of the Jubilee of Bagrian John and not because Vladimir Yavorowski says so. The purple great is independent of Yavorowski. The copper is a victim of steel repression, but it's not the size of it. He's a great word artist, and he's one of those people who protected the ideas of social democracy in Ukraine and abroad. I think it's much more important to us than it is for anyone who's offering to celebrate this Jubilee. In the name of Bagrano, you probably shouldn't speculate. I think we should celebrate this Jubilee with dignity. He deserves his martyrdom and, I think, the Supreme Council will correct this mistake. But I say this again, this has to be done consciously, realizing that John Bagrian's figure is messy for the Ukrainian people. And then I'm going to say what I went to this rostrum and I'm going to ask you to continue the talk, because he's giving me his three minutes and Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko. I want to say a few words about yesterday's provocation by Alexander Goldfarb, as you know, the right hand of Boris Berezowski. Yesterday it was, I say, the next day he put out a version that the Attorney General has already rejected, but which concerns our colleague, the national deputy and today's Supreme Council head, Alexander Moroz. You know this wild version of Alexander Frost's involvement in the murder of George Gongadze. Not by chance do such versions appear at the turning point for Ukraine’s day. Someone wants it very much, and again, I say, they want it very much, and it's very clear to whom, now that the fate of parliamentaryism in Ukraine is being decided, they're going to have these provocations. There is not, as they say, an ounce of truth in this. Yesterday and today I spoke, I received a call from Mikola Ivanovich Melnick, who, according to these stories, is not the last figure and not the last witness. As early as March last year, he wrote a statement on behalf of Alexander Turkinov, then Head of the Security Service, regarding some provocative statements by Alexander Goldfarb and his patron Boris Beresowski. But as far as we know, this statement wasn't investigated, and it was about too serious things to just take them and go around the side. So there are strong worlds in Ukraine that would not want to know the truth about the death of Georgia Gongadze and know the name of those who led him to this destruction. And so today there is a search for those who are not where they are, and the fact that today the blade against Alexander Moroz speaks only of one thing, that the Frosty Supreme Council is very difficult for someone to return totalitarianism to Ukraine, to bring back those wild customs, when one could be killed peacefully, and no one would be punished for it. We, I think, need today, and I want this statement to be considered a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service to find the answer to why Mikola Melnick's statement to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service this year has been ignored. Why again today and again the same forces that are known to be associated with some of the state officials of today’s Ukraine, why they continue to harass Alexander Moroz, and why they are looking for the guilty in the murder of Georgia Gongadze where these crimes are, and which has already testified to many documents, including audio recordings in Kuchma’s office. Clearly, long - range plans are involved. Long - range plans. But if you realize for yourself, if today, all of a sudden, someone of a small mind has the idea of disbanding the Supreme Council, then it's clear that the provocation of yesterday and what was not investigated last year is the application of Nikola Melnick to Alexander the Turk. All of this lies in one line, all of this lies in the battle against democracy in Ukraine, and all of this lies in the affirmation of the authority of one person in Ukraine. A man who apparently gave assurances to those who today are not interested in disclosing the Gongandze case and who is not interested in being held accountable. We do not have so many, unfortunately, people of honor and conscience in Ukraine who are now in the corridors of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u8	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Thank you, I think because my last name was mentioned, I would be entitled to a replica. I just want to say that everything that is happening with regard to the statements you mentioned is not about the fact that it is not possible to investigate the case but about the fact that everyone knows who is involved in the crime. That's the whole reason what's going on. The word is Kiselov, instead. Teeth, please, Vasil Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u9	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable deputies, in carrying out the protocol mandate of the presiding plenary, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules of Procedure and Ethical Affairs, made an official request to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which I have, under the commission of the chairman of the committee, announced. “The management of matters has reviewed your appeal since first August 2006 and reports. The five national deputies of Ukraine were named after the fourth faction of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, and they received apartments for permanent residence in Kiev. There's a list. 13 national deputies in cash compensation. A total of 3 million 190,000,254 bracelets, such as Wolinec, Hapoczka, Kemenyash, Levtsun, Lukyanko, Pavlovsky, Sas, Demyanko, Soloshenko, School, received 315,000, and so on. Thus, in July, esteemed colleagues, at present 35 national deputies, 5 vocations of the BUT factions live in the “Kyiv” and “Ukraine” hotels. During July, 35 members of the BUT factions received a salary and a total vacation of 1 million, 565 thousand,358 dollars. 74 national members of the BIT factions — expenses for the execution of MPs totalling 370,000 dollars — are added to the list. The service cars that are attached to the BIT fraction have been used since July 20 when they put theirs here. I won't talk. They spent 120 minutes on it. And 120 hours per. and 96 hours for Opel Omega. From 20.07 to 01.08., 37 members of the militia of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, were sent by second - wheeled vehicles for 217 hours for 38 minutes. According to paragraph 3.2 of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies’ Rules, the order of the Supreme Council Head 330 of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies gives time to use a service vehicle for 20 hours. 5, 7 members of the Supreme Council from the BUT faction took advantage of this hourly, three and a half times ten times. This is Sas, Sinchenko, Bodnar, Rybakov, Taran, Shevchenko, and School. Moreover, respected friends, meaning that the applications for housing were filed by Kurilo and the Royal, who withdrew. There have been no applications for the approval of the number 02 for the day. I want this data to be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, posted on the website of the Ukrainian Parliament, so that voters can see the true face of this faction and be able to make the right conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u10	I have a meeting proposal for all deputies: I think that the statement that was made is entirely based on the fact that from one faction the whole time was the theme that they were more holy to the Pope. All MPs are the same. So let's not make any exceptions here. Perhaps there are no publications to be done, but there is one thing to consider: yesterday at the Conciliation Council I raised the question that we would probably need to review the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, and we are able to quickly build a service room for the deputies, a house that lives in a good place where the deputies will live with their families during their term of office, and once they have completed their duties, they will live in their homes where they came from. But this is a question that we're going to consider separately, because this is the norm of the law. The law that was passed seems to be in the third chamber, and we couldn't influence it then, and now, I think, we'll consult on how better to do it. In particular, with the support of the faction mentioned here. Now it's Alexandrovska. Please. I'm playing. Leonid Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! What my countryman Vassili Aleksevich said is very important, but this is little compared to what I want to say, because during the period when we are sitting here and we cannot solve the main problem – the appointment of the Prime Minister, there is a real deridary of all that can be attributed to the national heritage of our State. First, the Minister of Agricultural Policy of Baranivsky, with special diligence, is in fact destroying his orders by dividing the world-renowned Massandra association. [[how hard it is to address other issues of concern that exist in the agro-industry complex]] Moreover, it is not only the trademark that is behind it, but it is not only the loss of production. But after that, I also stress that there are about 200 kilometres of coastal area in Massandre or otherwise, there is a struggle for land. So I'm not going to talk about this anymore, I just want to go to Alexander Alexandrovich, so that you can use your personal influence on a member of the community, because soon the Crimea will rise up against such methods. The second, at the same time, on behalf of Prime Minister Kirilenko, is the most serious area of the Vice-Prime Minister, I beg your pardon, the most serious area. There is a draft Cabinet of Ministers decree of 23.06 Kirilenko has signed the relevant orders to, as it were, create public television. In fact, we need to create, including the “Culture” channel, but think about it, all the regional radio companies are essentially being destroyed. Moreover, the mandate already expressly, as stated, “blacks in white” to allocate air time or otherwise, to resell, or even more, to deprive, in essence, the regions of Ukraine of the right to their political transfers, to their economic transfers, etc. This includes the Crimea TRC, where only seven national editors work. We are talking about the destruction of inter-national problems, problems of national minorities, etc., while at the same time the power of graves cannot be allowed. And lastly, I think that whatever the President is arguing in this case, whether there is an economic crisis or not, if he wants to make sure that one of the factors in the growth of the economic crisis is an increase in bread and, above all, in the capital, let him go and buy this bread himself. But we, the people, will bring the destitute before he can't buy a loaf of bread soon. I ask all three questions to consider my request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u12	Alexander Baranowski will get the right line a little later, let's go after Poljancic. Please. None. Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u13	Stanislaw Arzweth's faction of "Our Ukraine," Sergeant WDV. Deputies! Today, in all the countries of the SND, including Ukraine, we are peacekeepers, celebrating our professional WDV Day. Everybody knows heroism and the glory of these famous guys in these berets. What only one Afghanistan is worth! So let us from this rostrum, along with your applause, welcome these heroes, these glorious warriors of the DVD. Thank you. And remember the deputies you serve as well as the paratroopers under the dome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u14	Sergey Vasilovich of the Red Riding Hood was also asked to join in these words. Would you mind if he used it for 30 seconds? Come on, it's people who deserve it and their day today, and in addition he's going to say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u15	Thank you, colleague of Arjevetina, also a paratrooper, and as general of the Airborne Air Force, I also warmly congratulate these courageous real men on our holiday. But I would like to say on this day of tension, on a day so heavy for our country of Ukraine, I would call upon all veterans of air-descent armies to become the kind of cementing material that would preserve and strengthen our country of Ukraine. Happiness, health to all. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u16	Thank you, Sergei Vasilovich, Samuelk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Unfortunately, we see that nothing has changed with the names of the Presidents of Ukraine -- from Kuchma to Yushchenka -- we see that action is replaced by vanity, chaos, black looks like white. That's all it was, all that's left. And in communication with people, it really gets embarrassing for those who ignore both work and work, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, while having airplanes, steamers, possessions, resting in the Canaries, stealing a government sentence, and then wearing “white clothes, ” they come out and tell people that they are the best in life. People, don't believe this demagogy, please. It's all a lie! According to these words and behind these “white robes” very black things that have led our Ukraine almost to collapse. And, of course, we need to be honest and give up the status of Ukrainian national MPs, exercise authority, not speculate and parasitic on people's expectations. You've made them poor those who are hiding somewhere in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and elsewhere. And now you're divorcing social demagogies. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you may not have been very sure of the President of Ukraine, because he has not yet realized that we are living in the parliamentary-presidential republic and that he is not comfortable in his position of power, in his position of dictatorship, to speak to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the leaders of our factions. We need to learn not only to respect ourselves but also to learn to respect the people of Ukraine and their choice. And the people of Ukraine said, and if he had to, he would repeat that choice. Today, someone is really comfortable with all this chaos, all this idleness, no one knows what's happening in our country. Everyone sees that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not cooperating, but what is being done in the state is unknown. What hurts me is that today they “screw”(?) Hersonian combines, practically the flagman of our machine building is being destroyed. It's practically sold the entire social sphere of this factory, and no one's stopping it. This was done by Pinchuck and Kuchma, and he looks at it and does nothing to Yushchenko. And that's why I want to turn to everyone who really hurts the fate of our Ukraine. I want to talk to everyone. Today, only the people and only those who work the people have the right to be, indeed to express their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u18	Since Catherine Semenovna came to me, I have to answer. Catherine Semenovna, we have a wise president, and he doesn't need instructions from the Head of the Supreme Council, first. Secondly, for today's distribution of powers, privatization is not a matter for the President. Let's be held back in our grades, and we'll do better on our own, just as we demand that the Cabinet of Ministers be created for us. The word is given to Zybenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u19	Please hand over Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u20	Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u21	Dear people's deputies, it's been almost nine months since our country lived without a government. As a result, today we see an increase in the prices of bread in the city of Kiev. I'm sure in a week, two of these price increases will touch the regions. Increase in gas prices. And there is no end and no end to that price. All that is happening in the country today is the result of the irresponsibility of the current power to the President. The President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, must first and foremost be interested in the formation in our State of a government that deals with pressing issues and, first and foremost, with price policy. Regrettably, the President ignores the position of Parliament, which has legally formed a coalition and has nominated the Prime Minister. It's the last day. Well, do we have to go through with this? If the President were given 15 days today to consider ten candidates, it would be clear and understandable, but such actions by the President I regard as anti-national and anti-State. And if the President decides today to disband Parliament, I think the current Parliament will be given the power and the first question to be asked in this Chamber is the impeachment of the President for violating the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Now, with regard to price policy. The Government of Yehanurov has decided to increase the tariff in violation of Parliament's decision on a moratorium on tariff price increases. As a result of what we have today. If people paid 154 bracelets for a one-bedroom apartment and a two-bedroom family, today they will have to pay 435 bracelets. And these are just tariffs. You tell me where the people of Ukraine should take this money to pay for utilities. I'll tell you what. If the current, if the Government is unable to provide the people of Ukraine with a minimum package of services available for gas prices, heat, water to which such a Government needs! Nobody needs it. Therefore, I believe that today Parliament should already take a decision at this plenary meeting on a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. Such a draft regulation will also aim not only to protect our voters, but also to put into the framework of a Government that must address all issues not by raising prices and tariffs is the simplest way, but through the introduction of new technologies, energy-saving technologies and many other mechanisms must be developed to protect the interests of our voters. And, I think, if Janukovic's candidature is introduced soon and all of the coalition's representatives will take it together, I think we'll all succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u22	Strutovich, please. Lukyanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u23	Lukyanenko, Block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear Alexander. Dear Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council! I'd like to speak on behalf of our faction about our position, our position on what the President is doing now. You know, you know, the Party of Regions won 186 votes -- that's what the voters gave. As a result of the misuse of money, as a result of fraud and bribery, you are the minority that has become the majority. And the orange majority has become a minority. The President wants to bring order to the Supreme Council because such a Supreme Council has lost its moral right to govern Ukraine. So he took the initiative: The Universal of National Unity. Apparently, the president had good intentions in general. And he probably took an example, for example, from Spain, where after the civil war they buried everyone in one place and wrote: “They died for what they believed in”, the two sides. But this example of Spain, or any other state, does not apply to Ukraine, for there was a nation and controversy between different parts of the nation: how the state would go. We don't have the basics solved, we have a part of us want an independent Ukraine, and part of us wants to bring Ukraine back, under, back to the former communist regime and dictatorship. So we don't have a major problem. The intention to create, the intention to create this national unity does not work. The real Ukrainian society is made up of different people, and the state is the body that has to measure the opposite interests of different parts, different social groups. And the president wanted to get it all together. You can't get into a bunch of people with completely opposite interests. We need to view our society as being made up of, indeed, different interests. The president's intention to reconcile a thief to the one who was robbed is the same thing as comparing a rabbit with a cabbage. The rabbit eats cabbage, otherwise it can't be. That's why we urge the President to disband this Supreme Council so that the electorate in the new elections will choose a parliament that will truly reflect the interests of the people and that will decide the affairs of our nation at the level that our ancestors dreamed of. Ukraine wants to be an independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u24	Thank you, Leveko Grigorovitch, thank you. Ukraine will be an independent state, and everyone knows it. And the elections were held, according to international experts, fairly, democratic. The party of regions tripled its size compared to what it was. And Julia Timoshenko's block is six times. So it's okay, it's developing on a democratic basis. Let us give Baranowski a word for it and consider the issues raised. Please. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, it was Masandra that ordered the minister to destroy Masandra. I want to make a discovery for you that I've made for myself. That we don't have one Masandra and we already have two Masandras. Because Massandra Boyko, CEO, organized a closed stock company called Masandra, which is headed by his son and 100 percent of the wine produced in Masandra is flowing through the entire structure. Where the stock control package belongs to this family. Moreover, we are examining the facts today. According to our data, Masandre's trademarks have also moved into this private structure today. Next. In fact, my command was issued when the Yaltic wine mill, guilty, became a state - owned enterprise that had disappeared from the state registration. This is not like many, primarily Boyko and individual patrons. So, created by my initiative yesterday by the Cabinet of Ministers, we invite the National Deputies to take part in it and establish the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u26	Please consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Joint Arrangements for the Prevention and Prevention of the Blockage. Reported by the Minister of Defense, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u27	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, I am presenting a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the agreement on joint measures to prevent and prevent the blockade. This document was adopted within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States, signed in September 1993. The purpose of this document is to establish a legal framework and a system of relations within the territory of the former Soviet Union that would exclude any coercive action, any restrictions on connections, any measures that result in restrictions on individual states and, more so, in extreme form, the blockade. In short, about a year ago, in the government of Yulia, Timoshenko had conducted a joint audit with the SND Executive Committee of those documents signed by Ukraine in all previous years to determine the approval of those documents and the conduct of all internal procedures. A week ago, I was presenting one of these documents, and he was supported by the Supreme Council. I suggest you support this document better late than ever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u28	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign in. Yes, please, five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u29	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Baldwin?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u30	Please, Baldirev Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u31	Dear Alexander. Aah! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I apologize to the rapporteur, and I want to say so. I'm sorry, I want to say about a friend: I want to say that power is sacrilegious. You can't destroy power. We — Communists or we — nationalists, we — are regional and even butlers — must not destroy power in the country, because chaos is worse than any authority. I ask all people, who have any understanding and respect for their own country, to cease to destroy power in their own country on a daily basis. This, by the way, also applies to the distinguished rapporteur, who, unfortunately, took a direct part in the violation of the Constitution and the legislation of the country in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u32	So you support the bill, that's what I understand. Please, Antemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u33	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Suhi Yaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u34	Please, the Dry One can't do without a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of regions. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have a question specifically for Bill 0011. Of course, the expansion of the treaty base in the partnership of independent states, we support, we will vote in favour. Moreover, the draft law 0011 was introduced by the President of Ukraine. But please tell me, as Minister of Defense, what is it, for us to explain what is the mechanism for implementing these legal grounds to prevent the use of any form of pressure or coercion directed against sovereign states? I mean, how could we say that we are the guarantor or guarantor of the mechanism for implementing this treaty that we are going to join? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. There are two aspects, the first aspect, the inside, the second aspect, the outside. As far as the internal one is concerned, the States that have signed and ratified this agreement are under an obligation not to allow any action to be taken at the level of the public authorities, at the level of non-State structures, which, for their purpose or end purpose, would have any coercion, restrictions on other States. And accordingly, it was relevant in 1993, if they did not have the relevant legislative legislation, then the signatory States assumed the obligation to work on the relevant normative basis. The second external aspect, if such questions arise, the envisaged mechanism, the possibility of calling the SND Heads of State to discuss the issue, the deadline for the final decision. If not, then the United Nations and so on, in any case, the mechanism of consultation and the possibility of holding such consultations, is another civilized form of conflict management that has arisen before, now the glory of God is gone, but can theoretically arise in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u37	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u38	Anatoly Stepanovich! I have a question for you. Our faction will support the proposed bill. As far as I can see, the agreement was signed, indeed, in 1993 and the main thing used by the parties is the final acts of the NBS, as well as all the other documents of the NBS, that is, the non-existent organization of which is no longer in existence, since it is the OSCE, not the NBS, which is the first question of how to deal with it? And secondly, what about the fact that, when disputes need to be settled, they must be settled through the Economic Court of the Commonwealth of Independent States, which has not yet been created and incomprehensible, will it ever be created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. I'm going to start with the second part and I want to draw attention to the text of this agreement and the footnote. Note 1. The agreement is signed by Ukraine in quotes “except part 1 of Article 5. ” Part 1 of article 5 says that “in the event of a dispute about damages, the parties refer the case to the economic court of the SND, ” and then to the text. Ukraine signed for this item and therefore there is no question. What's happening to another is, of course, a time delay element. Now it's hard for me to tell you why President Krawczuk's signed document has changed, and after that, I'm already talking to dozens of governments, this deal has not been ratified. But I think that everything that is going to be done in our country to implement this agreement, besides what is already done, will be based on the decisions of existing structures and everything that is relevant in international national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u40	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Reverend Anatoly Stepanovich! In a civilized world, maintaining prevention of blocking countries is totally acceptable. And we're going to support this bill, especially since it's the president's position. At the same time, however, it is not necessary to create conditions for the blocking of persons, including if they are members of the military. I was approached by a citizen of Kobčík Mikola on May 29, 1982, who is currently serving in the military section of 4125 in Feodosia on the grounds that, despite the President's decree to release a military officer who has a higher education, he is not released on the ground that he finished the UZ, not in Ukraine, but in the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, his colleagues were released. How do you look at the fact that an individual is blocked, regardless of the 24th article of the Constitution, which does not allow for any restrictions or oppression with a national, linguistic, or other sign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u42	Thank you for asking, it does not apply directly to this Law, but I will study this question and give an official answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u43	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich, please sit down. From the Committee of Heads of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u44	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the committee considered this issue and decided to make a recommendation for consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council. And I want to say that this has already been said about the chaotic meaning and purpose of this bill. And the effectiveness of the agreement is why I want to pay your attention, colleagues. This will create a legal basis for avoiding the use of any form of pressure and coercion directed against sovereign states, preventing the use of blockades or threats and using them against any., maintaining peace, security and good-neighbourliness among SND States and strengthening the international authority of our State and its desire to abide by international obligations. The implementation of the agreement will not result in financial and material costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. [[As already indicated here]] I would like to point out that the main issue of this treaty is that it is set out in the second article, where the parties will not allow in their territories, I underline the actions of both state and non-state bodies, businesses, organizations, and officials and individual citizens that can lead to the blockade of either side. And I would also like to draw your attention to article five, colleagues. You know that our party here has made a warning about the first part of this fifth article, where, in the event of a dispute involving damages, the parties refer the matter to the Economic Court of the Commonwealth of Independent States. You know that our country has not yet supported the formation of this court, but remains active in ratifying the second part of this article, where the parties can, with mutual agreement, refer the resolution of disputes from these issues to any other international judicial body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Please, 3 minutes, Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u46	Vitali Yakovich, how will this covenant work in practical terms? Here we had past, even this year, incidents. In fact, Russia was covering up the gas flow, the gas supply, to Ukraine. We had cases of nondelivery of meat and milk as a result of Russian actions. Now we're going to ratify this agreement, whether we're going to be guaranteed from the fact that there's not going to be a deadlock again in January, or now there's one there, which means that the state authority of the Russian Federation is not going to stop some kind of supply agreement under the existing agreements between Ukraine and Russia. Who and how will answer these questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u47	I think we can't be guaranteed from anything under any agreement, but I would like to point out once again that there are relevant articles here that indicate that we can go to international bodies, to any other international judicial body. Unfortunately, the questions you just mentioned were not addressed, so there was an appropriate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u48	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u49	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We've seen cases many times before, and in practice we've seen them, when political fluctuations are made with amplitude, then on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the west, on the east. And this has already brought a lot of distress to Ukraine. Is that why I have this question? Have there been any estimates of an economic nature? What will this result in for Ukraine as a result of the adoption of this law? Obviously, the social consequences, the political consequences, are understandable and positive. And the faction of the Socialists will support this bill, but, well, as far as the economic direction is concerned, if there are such calculations, what will this give Ukraine in economic terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u50	I thank you, Nicholas Illich, for asking. But I want to emphasize that there are some agreements that cannot be calculated economically. This is a purely legal procedure that will lead to the prevention of any action.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u52	Yes, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u53	Please pass on the word to Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u54	Please, Mikoli Onichuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Mikola Onischuk, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” faction. Vitaly Yakovich, to you, a question to you. First. Do you own the information, or have all the countries that signed the treaty ratified it? The other one. As you explain, in particular, the fact that the agreement was signed in 1993, I am drawing attention to the hall. So it's been 13 years since it was invested, and we're only ratifying it today. And what were the motives here, why wasn't it brought to Parliament before? And the last. The faction discussed this issue at its meeting today. We will support natural ratification, an element of legal culture, a country as a subject of international law. And there is no doubt that such a treaty will reflect the national interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I mean, not all nations have supported it yet. But I fully agree with your last point that Ukraine must faithfully fulfil all obligations relating to the intercontractual process. That's the first one. And the others. I want to say that this topic, it's long overdue, because when it comes to the committee, it only appeared on July 20, this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes. Please sign up for the speech without discussing the matter. Yes. Let's take 15 minutes. Please, Onechuk. The Prince? Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Peacemaker, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I understand, in fact, this is a second deal over the week that is proposed by the President of Ukraine within the framework of the SND, ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament and represented by the Minister of Defence. And you remember, it was a treaty to prevent, or more specifically to protect, the victims of war. And then he said that, in fact, it makes no sense, because it reflects all the norms that exist in an existing Geneva convention. At the same time today, as for me, the deal is quite specific, because, in fact, in the 93rd year, somehow it wasn't ratified. At the same time, did I, again, point out in my question that using what documents was it made? It was compiled using documents of an organization that no longer exists. And obviously, the very countries of the SND that have signed this agreement should go back and respond to it and at least adapt to the realities that have changed over the past 13 years. Otherwise, the text of the convention should be considered. Indeed, it is more important for Ukraine. Maybe if we had ratified it a little earlier, we wouldn't have had the problems that Eugene Gorenik was talking about today, when we were actually subjected to serious economic pressure from our neighbors, which is directly forbidden by the convention. Because the point is that the blockade, in accordance with this agreement, is called any, and a partial break in economic relations, as well as pipelines. That is, meat-milk wars, so-called, and what we call a gas war, fall under this action. I would very much like to believe that, after the ratification of our country, no pressure will be exerted on what has been done so far, because all the countries that have ratified this convention are making a deal, more specifically, committing themselves to not allow any action by the State, non-State authorities, officials of these bodies, as well as any other enterprise, organizations, to take any means of pressure on a country that has signed such a treaty. But there's another kind of question: what is the situation if these actions are done? In this case, there is nothing more than to appeal to the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States for immediate consideration at its meeting, to create a special commission that should immediately address this issue. But most importantly, if such a commission does not solve this issue, the SND Council is obliged to address the UN Security Council for appropriate sanctions, which is virtually unlikely because we understand who is leading the SND Council. And that's the last one. In the event that we have ratified without an economic SND court rule, we should only apply the rule of mutual commitment or mutual agreement to another international court. If any other party gives up this standard, this agreement will not work for us. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u59	Yes, Mironenko gives the word Miroshnichenko. Please prepare Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u60	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Well, of course, I support the ratification of this convention. I would like to draw your particular attention to the fact that it is being submitted by the President of Ukraine. Just in the context of what it is offered by the President, I wanted to look at the text of this agreement. First of all, I want to point out that it's signed by the SND countries. That is, its action extends to those entities that make up the Commonwealth of Independent States. Would you like to mark the definition of what is the blockade? And the blockade is, in accordance with article 1 of this Agreement, the execution or encouragement of any action, I emphasize, not only military, any action aimed at the full or partial isolation of the territory of another State by a full or partial interruption of economic relations, rail, sea, air, pipeline, mail, telegraph, radio or other means of communication. And in this context, I have a question, and what exactly makes the blockade different from the embargo, the economic embargo? According to the definition we see here, there is no clear difference, and in the context of this, another question is already raised: How can we look at Ukraine’s action, particularly with regard to Transnistria? You remember that, in fact, this area has been blocked, and by virtue of Article 2 of this covenant, the parties will take steps to be responsible for their physical or legal actions that conflict with obligations under this covenant. I would like to draw the attention of our officials, first of all, who are headed by the executive authorities, to the fact that when we ratify this agreement, there should be no such action, at least, on the part of Ukraine, because we will already bear not only a moral but also a material responsibility. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow deputies to the fact that, according to article 5, which, by the way, is only partially ratified, that is, there. Signed, I mean, not ratified, signed. In addition to part 1 of article 5. And she's talking about resolving the disputes between the parties that arise in the implementation of this agreement. Again, Ukraine has refused a clear, determined dispute resolution procedure. I'm paying attention and not one more thing is the very bad work of our expert analyst.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u61	The expert board is doing the right thing. Don't criticize, because these are our people. Rudkovsky Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Today we are discussing the blockade of one of the SND states. But it seems to me that we are now in Ukraine watching the blockade that is being driven by the Bank's entire people from a normal, stable life and managed in the same direction so that there is no stability in Ukraine, in order to sow the belief that the Supreme Council is not in a position to take control of the situation. Although on the one hand, the whole of Europe, the whole world has declared elections to be democratic, all the countries in the SND have understood it, and we see that the situation of re-election is pressing again. Look what's going on in the state. Electricity and gas prices have doubled, and utilities have tripled across Ukraine by 30 percent of local budget underfunding. Even though one minister went to the rostrum and said that he was in charge of the duties of prime minister, the President? Everyone's talking about one thing to keep the power in hand. Thus, it is not necessary to take 13 percent of the elections if you want to have full authority. And that's why I'm convinced that today we need to remove the blockade from the situation in Ukraine, not from the situation with external influences. We need to form a fast-acting government today, which will take responsibility for the development of the state, change the budget for 2006 so that we can warm, feed and preserve the situation in Ukraine stable and not refer to external factors, to the Constitution. The Constitution obliges the President to act within the framework of the law, to overcome the Prime Minister and to promote stability in the state, to protect the Constitution, not himself and his environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, before we go to the rostrum, please read the question that we are discussing. Please, Vitaly Mother, follow him, Netecka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u64	Hello, Mother. Party of industrialists, entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” faction. Generally speaking, it is unlikely that developed countries will come to a period of blockade. But the decision that determines how to get out of this position is a very important decision, and we think that our faction, members of the faction, has come to the conclusion that we need to support it. I ask the Chamber to confirm this decision with its vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u65	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Necka refuses to take advantage of Kolisnichenko. Wheelchair ready to go? Please. Vadim Kolisnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! This document, which we will be considering for ratification today, allows us to conclude that we continue to cooperate and to deepen our cooperation with the SNA countries. And I think that's one step in improving our relationship with the Economic Union of the European Union. Moreover, if we assume that this allows us to move away from the so-called Euro-Atlantic integration today, then I am twice ready to support this document and ask you to vote for it, as it is another nail in NATO's grave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Let us not confuse the saints with the sinner. NATO has absolutely no attitude toward this, as does other associations. So I propose, let's all be friendly about supporting the President's proposal and adopting the Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Joint Arrangements to Prevent and Prevent the Blockage. Please vote. We need 300 votes. [[11:05:42]] For 287 They didn't touch a bit. 287 Accords, Act passed. The deal's ratified. Thank you. The factions? Please, everyone has voted in a friendly way. The region's 180. "Block Timoshenko" - 2. “Our Ukraine” – 54. Socialists - 31. The Communists are 20. A draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants is under consideration. Registration No. 0030. Report to the Minister for Agriculture Policy of Baranovsky, to prepare the Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Since 1993, a system of intellectual property rights for plant varieties has been established in Ukraine. Since then, Ukraine’s legislation in this area has developed and has improved considerably. In April 1995, by identifying the need to protect the rights of selectors on the basis of principles that have international recognition and support, our State joined the 1978 International Convention for the Protection of New Variety of Plants, which enabled national selectors to obtain legal protection of varieties in other member states and created conditions for the participation of foreign selectors, plant selection and seed production in their territory. Since July 3, 2002, the new Law on the Protection of Plants Rights has become effective in Ukraine, which ensures the implementation of the convention in its new edition. In 1991. And an effective operation that allowed selectors to acquire intellectual property for more than twenty basic agricultural species by obtaining over 600 patents per plant variety. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants is the implementation of a national programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. To date, the 1991 act of this convention has brought together 60 nations of the world, and the recent European Union, as an intergovernmental organization, the basic directives and regulations of which meet its requirements. Conventions. States such as Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Moldova, Azerbaijan, South America, European countries, and so forth are among the participants in this convention. It should be noted that the main requirement of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization is also in the area of intellectual property rights, according to national legislation, to the position of the agreement on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights. This agreement provides that member states provide for the protection of plant varieties with patents, or a kind of active system under special legislation, or any combination thereof. Ukraine's accession to the above-mentioned convention is an international confirmation of the existence of an effective system of protection of plant rights in the State on the basis of the only universally recognized principles and ensures the level of European legislation in the field of protection of intellectual property rights in the varieties of plants. Dear friends, this will allow our scientists working in the field of selection to receive the Royalty for their work, for the distribution of varieties. We estimate that this amount can be within one billion dollars a year for today. Even if you count tax deductions, 13%, that's 130 million, it's going to be able to increase the budget accordingly. So please support this law, let's support our science in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u69	Thank you. Will there be questions? You don't? Thank you, sit down, please. Is it? Yes, there is. Then let's write it down. Yes, please, five minutes. Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u70	Thank you. A fast, socialist faction. Alexander Petrovich, what guarantees will be given by those who initiated this convention on the protection of opportunities, and what, for today, is relevant to Ukraine’s protection? What are "our Ukraine" today, such acquisitions of Ukrainian science, acquisition of selectors that we really need to address this convention today, and we will be protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. The point is that today a large number of varieties produced in Ukraine are used in foreign lands. And, practically, no one pays our scientists anything for their use. And, let us speak frankly, and what is being used in Ukraine today is also not paying for anything. So there's no incentive, and as science is financed today, you know. Joining the convention guarantees that these things will be properly allocated today and, let's say, those countries that will use ours, the varieties of our selection will pay the Royalties to our scientists. This is guaranteed by appropriate legislation, including international legislation, to which we join.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u72	But we're also going to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u73	We're paying now, by the way, if we take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u74	Sergey Andros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u75	Please pass the word Ribhub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u76	Sergey Ribuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear Alexander Petrovich, purely from a professional point of view. Well, first of all, okay, and I'm sure we'll adopt this law and Ukraine will take another step towards adapting our legislation to Europe and the world. But there is a form in every matter and there is a meaning. I recently learned with amazement that the Cabinet of Ministers had eliminated the State Department of Plant Rights, which we took step by step, all governments, to create 10 years, and formed an inspection. If that is the case, it changes the content of the service and inspection work, so we cannot make sense because we join the European community on these issues, and if the form, why? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u78	I thank you for asking. You are, indeed, a general inspection of agriculture in Ukraine today. All inspections and control bodies that have been in the field of agricultural production are now united into one large, powerful structure, although they preserve their, let us say, respective branches, they have an impact on one or the other spheres. I want to say that in most countries of the world today, this is how agricultural controls are built. Let's say in Russia it's called "Rossel Control," you know, if you're in France -- the General Inspectorate of Agriculture and so on. So there is absolutely nothing done here to weaken the proper control, including in the classes in Ukraine, by producing them, by introducing them, by grading them, and vice versa, this function is being strengthened.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u79	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u80	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Petrovich, recognition by the member states of the International Union for the Protection of New Variety of Plants, Our Achievements and Our Property Rights requires our faction to vote in favour of Law 0030. But I have a question for you, how do you feel about Minister APC, many of them, and I'd like to know what the state of affairs with the selection of plant varieties looks like today? To what extent will joining the international convention contribute to the development of practical selection? But I want to ask you one short question: please explain to me and our voters what is going on in Ukraine with the price of bread? In view of what, why is it that, with the good harvests we now have and the good condition of our selection, the price of bread continues to rise, especially in Kiev, which certainly does not contribute to improving the material status of our citizens? And what are the prospects? Maybe it's a seasonal phenomenon. Maybe then the price of bread stabilizes? But what happens now, and what awaits us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. There'll be another law, I'll report it. He can be reported there in 30 seconds, he's technical. As the Supreme Council wills, I am willing to report more widely on what is happening in agriculture. With regard to the price of bread, I have spoken about it more than once, and today I will say that the price of grain at which bread was purchased for baking bread does not affect the price of bread, that is, its increase. Absolutely, there should be no claim here for peasants. So let's say that what affects the price of bread, the explanation that we get, let's say, is that we're going to raise gas, we're going to raise wages, we're going to have to raise electricity, and so on, and we haven't raised the price for two years, we're going to have to raise the price. But what I'm saying is that the price of regulation for bread, according to legislation, is passed on to the district government, including Kiev. And they have to count, take calculations, and is that a justifiable promotion, or is that not justified? That is, more questions today to specific administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u82	Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Petrovich, I am convinced that we have long had to solve the problem of protecting our selective scientists who work well, who have achievements, and they have to have rewards and protection at world level. I have a question, why didn't this matter get resolved? It would seem that since 2002, we could have returned to this problem earlier. The Socialists will support this bill. And yet, I address you, Adam Ivanovich. So let's say Alexander Petrovich, well, given the opportunity to report on the next bill, let him say a few words about the situation in agriculture, it's very important, and it's unlikely that we'll be able to have another chance to hear from the first lips about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u84	Thank you. Why was the decision not made earlier? Because it's probably impossible to solve all the questions at the same time, but I did report that the question was being considered and that there was a solution at each stage. In 1993, a system of intellectual property rights protection was established. So in April 1995, we joined an international convention of the 1977 Act. On July 3, 2002, the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety became effective. And today is the final stage of this work. I mean, I think that we were just here, the ministry over the years has been consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the committee, the Committee on Science and Education, Teether Mikhail Vasilovich, will report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Science and Education discussed this issue and unanimously decided to support this bill so that we could vote with you today. Indeed, if we look at this issue, Ukraine takes the lead in both the Soviet Union and the European co-author of the achievements of Ukrainian selectors. If we didn't have crop varieties in our possession today, especially in agriculture, foreign crops, but the crop area that is currently being planted in Ukraine is 90 percent of the achievements of our selectors. But what is the situation? They don't enter this international convention, they don't have the right to defend themselves, and regardless of that, and foreign selectors know the quality of our varieties very well, they bring the genetic potential of this seed to themselves, they put their labels on them, and they tie them to us, and they produce them as their own. Why? Because our selector scientists don't have that kind of protection. Therefore, there is a great request to support this proposal, which the Minister detailedly reported, that the Committee on Science and Education supports, the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is positive, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u87	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Mikhail Vasilovich! I've got to you, like, really, to a person who knows the situation, why didn't we ratify her before?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u88	Not only did you, it really, in time, ask the former Minister of Agriculture to me, we did not flock to that line to pass, but there, as reported by the minister, was a few steps taken to reach today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u89	Right. Will there be questions? Is it dry? No, it's not. Sulkowski wants it, please. The day without Sulkowski is a wasted day at the session, please. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u90	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! You know the agrarian committee supports, so this bill. And I think we've discussed many of the problems with the project today. And so I think that and I urge all my colleagues to support this bill, it will really help solve these pressing problems on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u91	Yes, thank you for your support. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? No one insists. They insist, then sign up. Yes, let's give everyone a word, 12 minutes, please, Sergey Ribuk, followed by Jaroslav Suhi. Yes, Sergei could use six minutes if he wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u92	Dear National Deputies! It has been 10 years since the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants. As a result, with the active participation of the national deputies of previous vocations, the leading academics of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine passed a law on the protection of plant rights, which placed intellectual property protection in the order of plants in the nation’s national priorities. Accordingly, a powerful plant rights protection system has been established in Ukraine, which we have also sought for 10 years to be created by the State Plant Rights Protection Service, which has allowed, starting in 2002, according to the requirements of the Convention, to introduce rules for the protection of intellectual property for plant varieties into the Civil, the Master's, Customs, Criminal, Administrative Codes. Today, 2,000 people have received a certificate of plant variety authorship. And more than 1,300 people, on behalf of the State, “have become owners of property rights for the distribution of the variety, which are certified by a national registration certificate. And as a result, it is estimated that international experts, in Ukraine, have formed some of the best in Eastern Europe and in SND countries national plant varieties, which are the basis of its food security. However, there is a “but. ” Instead of fully promoting and strengthening the built-up plant rights system, which generally functions in Ukraine's territory, think about it for over 100 years and always has its autonomous, separate organizational structure, which is primarily related to its specific work, its deep expertise, the need to ensure objectivity and proper decisions and its impartiality, the Cabinet of Ministers “professionally”, has eliminated the State Service for the Protection of Plant Rights. [[I'll say it in quotes.]] I mean, one foot, one hand for the law, the other when the law is passed, we are in conflict with the law. I think the new government is going to need to correct this mistake immediately and, of course, restore it because it's 25,000. hectares of land are now in suspended condition, and we fear that this land may also go out of state control. And they don't pay people for three months anymore. In general, I think, on the basis of what we have been taught and by a colleague speaking, Minister Alexander Petrovich, we consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u93	Thank you. So I realized that both Suhi and Hara and Andros unanimously supported the decision. Thank you for understanding. Question completed. I am voting on a bill to join Ukraine in the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants. Registration number 0030. Please vote for him as a law. [[11:24:43]] For 284 Law passed, convention. We joined the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants. The next question is being considered. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Registration number 1086. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'll listen to those suggestions. Since the law changes one word here, we will be able to report the law and the rest of the time to use the minister for information in agriculture. And indeed, who is to blame that the price of bread is rising rapidly, with good harvests, according to reports. Is there any objection? Yes, then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the adoption of this law is to bring “On Quarantine Plants” paragraph 67, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. The draft law provides for a change of the term “under quarantine” to “objects of regulation”, one term. And secondly, “infection” of “fumigation”. I mean, we're in international standards, so we're making changes to the law. That's the whole point of the law. He is purely technical, asking to be supported and voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u95	Yes, respectable colleagues, perhaps, indeed, if there are no questions asked. No, there's a report. Okay, okay. Let's do it then. No questions? Yes, please have a seat. The account. Kseniya Mikhailovna, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, our committee has considered this issue. We support this bill, but on the basis of the first reading, there are several formal questions. In particular, the proposed edition raises questions because it uses the term “object of regulation”, which is very clearly defined in the law on quarantine plants, but is certainly not defined in the law on licensing. And in general, the subject of the license law is a completely different subject. Therefore, there is a need for legal, editorial work. There must be either written down this object of regulation, or reference should be made to the law on quarantine plants. And by the way, that was the scientific expertise's observation. So we want you to have our committee work on this law for a second reading, especially so that we can answer another question that there is no answer to today. What will happen to those licenses that have been issued and the deadline for which they have not expired? Because it's changing the language, the license for what kind of activity. That activity that was before, it disappears, a new one emerges. What's going to happen to the licenses? Will they be automatically transformed, as it should theoretically be? But this does not follow the letter of the law today. So we're going to put the corresponding ending positions where it's clearly defined that licenses that have not yet become valid will just automatically be transformed into a new type of license. In order for this not to be a matter of government fate or desire or desire, we ask that we, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, simply deal with these two issues in an editorial way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u97	Any questions? None. Now, now. Any questions? Please sign in. Three minutes Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Alexander Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u99	Baranov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u100	I'd like to speak to a respectable coconspirator. Here we clearly amend this law to read article 9, paragraph 67, of the Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, which refers to fumigation. And when the fumigation was changed, one, it doesn't apply to other terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u101	It's relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u102	Because it's the only species that's licensed today. And as for when you talk about licenses, really, licenses, which, they don't lose their power completely. If there is a need to transform dehydration into fumigation, this will be done. They get licenses for this type of work for free today, by the way, you know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u103	Is there any way to answer that? Dear colleague, I would like to point out that not only has the term defumigation of defamation changed, the term defumigation of defiance of what has been written: "the object of regulation" changed. This definition is set out in the Law on Quarantine Plants, which is, in fact, defined as an object of regulation. But there is no "object of regulation" in the Licensing Act. So we're just asking us to give us two weeks so that we can normally write this down and then we've adopted a law that will no longer be a colossal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u104	Sergey Rybuk, please
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Oh, what about us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u106	I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u107	I have a question for a co-conspirator. If we are adopting in general today, will we still need to make changes to other legislation? Or if we take two weeks, we get the opportunity and we put an extra piece of legislation into this bill -- it's only one change, one draft law, or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u108	Yes, it will be an exclusive law, only this law changes. The second law that defined, well, that actually caused these changes, it's already adopted, it's completely harmoniously written. There's no claim on him. There is a conflict between the licensing law and the plant quarantine law. This co-operation needs to be removed. But it needs to be removed in such a way as not to give birth to a new colony, that's all I'm saying is that there's no new colony.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u109	Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u110	It's just a technical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u111	Dear Xenia Mikhaylovna, a respected Xenia Mikhaylovna, a very simple law, there are only eight words added to the law, your committee has considered. Perhaps you have formulated how the words in the new law should and should sound. You give them a call, and we'll take it in general today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u112	A possible form, we suggest then, where it is written: “the object of regulation” to add “the object of regulation defined by the law on quarantine plants”. Then, at least, it'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u113	Yes, please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u114	Mikola Onischuk, a faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, a more faithful Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, faction of Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that the process of defamation, or fumigation of sub-carrantine materials, is developing; it is. And if we, even today, are going to take the basis of this law -- that means that this work is not going to be stopped. At the same time, I share the opinion of the rapporteur from the committee that if we want to vote on the law now, we need to find the exact wording that, first, (a) clearly defined the legal regime of those licences that have already been issued. Because the wording in those licenses will be different and it won't match the new law. And this must be reflected in the law itself in order to avoid appropriate disputes and conflicts. And if now, Mrs. Xenia, the committee is ready to propose an appropriate proposal, it can be voted on as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's do that. If the room is ready to vote with the additions now, our first addition is the subject of the regulation defined by the Law on Quarantine Plants, and our second addition to the Final Position of paragraph 2 then of the law, I ask for the support of the government. That the licenses that are valid for the moment remain valid until the end of the license. So we can take down all the colossals so there won't be any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u116	Have a seat, please. Sit down, don't answer. Yes, dear fellows, let's do it this way. Be careful. I think we can take it as a law, taking into account such proposals. That a fumigation of non-infection of plant protection products defined by the Law on Quarantine Plants is inserted here and that we give the End position that previously issued licences that have not ceased to work after the validity of the law has become effective. And then we'll get rid of all the problems. There is no denying that we voted and, as the law with such amendments. Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, with the rights that I have announced. Please be supportive. [[11:35:10]] For-286 The law is passed. Now, please, 10 minutes, Alexander Petrovich, on the agricultural situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to start by saying that the agricultural situation has become more predictable than we had in previous years. We got rid of the usual earlier fuss during a period of such responsible work as sowing, harvesting. These issues were practically not applied this year in Parliament and in the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no need to hold traditional selector meetings, and this year there were only two of them — before sowing and before harvesting. The leaders of the agricultural industry, the farmers, today the issue of the central apparatus is raised only by the strategy of the activities, the priorities set out in advance, for all sectors to operate in a state of affairs. This year, I'd say the village gets good results. In six months, gross production increased by 3.2 per cent, and in agricultural enterprises by 16.1 it is a waste of time that confirms the correctness of the development course. Credit market activated. More than 5.7 billion. The money was taken by peasants this year. In the first half of the year, it also increased to a budget of 3.5 billion. A bracelet, or 25 percent more than last year. This year’s wage growth was 14 percent. Of course, it's twice as low as industry, but it's 470 bucks. The external trade round of APC products in January-May this year increased by 20 per cent to the corresponding period of last year and accounted for 3.2 billion. In fact, it's 11 percent of Ukraine's external trade. At the same time, agricultural exports increased by 16 percent to 1.8 billion. That's what I'm talking about. And the external trade surplus is 514 million. If we have a country as a whole, it's negative. This year, more than 370 million people have already been targeted to support agriculture. A bracelet, or it's three times what it was last year. And I would like to thank the deputies of the last cadence for the decisions that were made in the formation of the budget. The point is, dear friends, that we've tripled the support of the agricultural budget, and at the same time it's 8 to 40 times less than our neighbors who are on our borders. [[Looking at what article]] And when we open our borders, by lowering our import duties, the peasants essentially become defenseless. If we don't level the terms of our peasants, and, let's say, Poland, the European Union, other countries, we won't be competitive. So the question is whether we're going to eat our meat and fat, whether we're going to eat our bread, or whether we're going to buy someone else's, I'm going to want it very much, and remember last year, which was the war of sugar, you remember meat when everything was done to get "over the hill" and destroy yours. By the way, I want to say sugar beets: last year we collected the largest crop -- a million 900 thousand tons in years of independence, we saved the sector, and this year 20% of the barrels were sown more than last year. Today we expect a sugar balance of 2.3-2.4 million tons. The grain group is preserved this year, it's within 15 million hectares. You remember that complicated sown last year was covered up by bright cultures. I want my dear friends to say that a good crop has been grown. We're harvesting crops at the level of last year. It's because of the complexity of winter, it's because of the complexity of the autumn solstice campaign. The world does not select, according to the United States, Brazil, Argentina, France, between 21 million tons of wheat and about 40 million tons of grains. In Ukraine, the grain shaft will be no less than last year. When I hear a lot of talk about how we don't have quality grain, I want to say we're going to collect at least 15 million tons of wheat. In terms of quality, 46 percent of the wheat was food last year, the rest is feedable. This year, 73% of wheat goes into food, it has 11.4% protein. I'd like to inform you about one more thing. This is the first time that we've introduced an evaluation of the quality of grain per protein, just as it does in Europe and around the world. What the grain traders did: by buying the grain from the glue, it was often 4-5 classes or not at all, and by selling it abroad by protein, they sold it in 3-4 classes and had a big barium on it. Accordingly, the villagers suffered. This year we've fixed this imbalance. And these complaints that you see in the press that we don't have quality grain, but lately, it's spread that some fleas or troubles have started destroying food grain and it's going inconvenient. That's not true. Grain quality, it's an effort by grain traders to break the price. A large shortage of grains in the world has caused a rather good price in the grain market. Today, the third-class wheat in agriculture, in currents, the price of 700-710 bracelets, at the minimum approved 700, in the ports of Odessa, it is 790 dollars. We think it's a pretty decent price for peasants. What I'm saying is that there are accidents, the agricultural stock market works, the agricultural fund works, and the agrarian fund works pretty well today, supporting a decent price. But there are cases where individual manufacturers say that he sold 500 dollars of wheat to the third class. Then I ask him, “Why not 200 bracelets? ” There may be two reasons: the first, or the difference is stolen, put in the pocket, agreed, or, let's just say, fooled those who bought that grain. We answer in such cases: “Sale grain through the stock market and you will have no less price than 700-710 bracelets.” Today, about 70 percent of the grains are milked, and more than 21 million are milked. A ton of grain, this year we're going to have for the first time more than 700,000. A ton of rape. And what I'm saying is that rape is concentrated on the root, as they say, by Western companies, because we don't have anywhere to use it, we don't have biodiesel plants to produce biodiesel. We're going to be in this year, and the good economy, the turnip today is completely competing with the sunflower, even perhaps more convenient than the sunflower has become, we're going to have over 700,000. A ton of soy and we'll have as much pea. This tells us that we have undergone qualitative changes in the very structure of the soybeans. As far as animal production is concerned, in January/June of this year, the gross production of animal production increased by 4.5 percent. And by the way, let's say 18.6. To be honest, we cannot know how much milk is in our uncle’s backyard today. Who can and how can calculate? This system, which I reaffirm again, is an imperfect, basic indicator produced by farmers and the fact that agricultural prices for meat products are indexes 91 percent up to last year, it is true that there has been a significant increase in supply on the market for our own products. I mean, when we were exporting in a year, we imported 300 thousand tons of meat, this year this figure is within 70,000 tons, and I want to say that we don't need that meat, but we can't stop it from saying things like that. This year, as I said, meat increased by 18.6 percent more than last year, rose by 33 percent of bird meat, pork production increased by 44 percent, last year, and this year 270 farms were reconstructed, this year about 400 percent. I mean, meat production is on a broader industrial basis here both Danish technology and Dutch, German, whatever they call it, but it's already industrial meat production. I would like to point out, reverends, and what has increased greatly the headship of pigs and chickens has been a problem with dairy animals. Today, the support that there is does not provide high profitability. Our neighbors — Russia, Belarus, and the European Union — today have gone to great commercial production. I was recently an Estonian-Hutarian country, and today they are smaller farms than 600 cows, or 1,300 to 1,500 no longer build, but they are high - tech farms. It is only from such farms that milk is allowed to be processed, and that is what lies ahead. But today the world has gone to the aid of a manufacturer, that is, 50 percent of the state is building such a farm, 50 percent of the investor himself, we have to do it at a very fast pace. In the next year, we have to put this money into the budget because in two or three years, we can run out of milk, the village is getting old, people are dying, those who were holding two cows yesterday -- holding one, and those who were holding one, there's no need at all. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u118	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. "Our Ukraine," we heard it anyway. Yes, Volga, Basil Volga, microphone. What's up?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to take a moment's notice of what is happening in our country right now, what is happening in the streets. Information has been received, everyone has been informed that officers of the Fourth Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are on leave immediately, and that officers are on leave and given a command by the 14th hour to obtain a record of their weapons. Does it make sense, Adam Ivanovich, to check this information? Because I got a call from the officers in the Fourth. We should check, that is to say, to the Minister of Internal Affairs urgently in order for him to explain the situation as to what it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m0.u120	Right. "Our Ukraine," I say to those who don't know, the Fourth Administration is in charge of protecting public order and so on and so forth. Okay, we'll contact the Ministry, we'll try to check it out, but their job is to protect our peace. Yes, dear colleagues, the questions raised at the morning meeting, and we have successfully solved them. I'm closing the morning session. We're working today in the afternoon, or now, as it were, in factions and committees. The meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock. Faction leaders, factions heads.
