ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, invited, journalists. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:32]] There are 383 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, let us consult. As you are aware, pursuant to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of December 1, “On making changes to the calendar plan for the holding of the second session”, plenary sessions are being held today on the second reading of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2007 and related issues. At the same time, we do have 30 minutes for announcements, statements, messages, and proposals by national MPs in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday. Shall we use these 30s today? We will. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, 30 minutes Boris Bespallian. Please. Who? Kowali? Yes, please, who? Boris Yakovitch, who do you want passed on to? Cowboy. Viacheslav Koval, please. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u2	Honourable National Deputies, Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Today is an unprecedented case, and I think that in the history of the Ukrainian State, when the executive power did not allow it after the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court, which suspended the Supreme Council's decision to release Boris Tarasyuk, was prevented from participating in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Anti-Crist Coalition is already fully showing its inside, its actions, the lawlessness it was moving in the elections of the President of Ukraine in 2004. She's demonstrating in 2006, she's demonstrating in terms of the partners she's drawn to herself in government, saying she's willing to cooperate, It shows absolute disrespect for the President of Ukraine, for Ukrainian laws, for Ukrainian society. She shows disrespect for herself because there can be no court decision without a court decision to act forcefully without letting a minister, a minister, after the President's decree to work in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is an absolutely irresponsible act aimed at escalating relations, at exacerbating the political crisis. And war has clearly been declared from this day forward. A war that won't give any side to victory, a war that won't allow Ukrainian society to expect good results, driven primarily by economic development, to develop what the Ukrainian community expects from this situation, to improve life. The “Our Ukraine” faction claims that it leaves the right to all actions, absolutely any action, to restore justice as defined by the Shevchenkov District Court, as expressed in the Presidential Order of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u3	Please, Chubarov passes Kirilenko Viacheslav, please. Get ready, Daneko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! We were handed out yesterday to the 2007 budget project, which has had major changes in it, despite major social disadvantages. I would like to inform colleagues and voters that the government has gone to the demands of democratic parliamentary opposition and has taken our protests into account for three of the most resonant social articles. So the government left the child in peace, left him in peace with those to whom he was not going to pay the hospital, and he left them in a peaceful retirement home, leaving them both a pension and a salary, under the pressure of democratic opposition. But the government of Yanukovich is absolutely not going to respond to other social problems. So the size of the minimum wage regardless of the dozens of amendments made by the people's deputies from different factions, by the way, not only the opposition, but yesterday's appeal by President Yushchenko was left unchanged. Thus, for the years 2005-2006, the increase in wages was 58 percent. For 2007, this figure is only 12.5 percent in the draft budget. Taking into account the forecasts of independent inflation experts at 11, at least, percentages in 2007 and plus an increase in income tax for citizens, we will have in 2007 with such a government a decrease in the real income of our citizens and primarily the wages. I would like to say that, along with the fact that the minimum wage that is proposed by the government of Yanukovic in the budget for the following year is the only tariff net, i.e. it does not essentially increase the salaries of the budgeters, teachers, doctors, librarians and all those who serve the budget and the common people, because the basis for the single tariff grid is the minimum wage that is based on the tariff rate rate of the first-class worker. In addition, articles 60, 65, and 114 of the budget invalidate all social standards that are to be funded, since these three articles give the government the right to adjust to reduce the size of government aid, the size of the benefits that are calculated from the minimum wage and the size of the social benefits that are calculated from the minimum wage. So all of these figures are going to be defined by the government, not by the State Budget Act, which is clearly going to be voted by the anti-crisis coalition today, but by hand in the Cabinet of Ministers meetings. In this context, the faction “Our Ukraine” reports that we will not vote for such a budget because it does not take account of all the social requirements that the democratic opposition faces. And we urge MPs today not to violate the procedure, the rules and the budget code, to vote in an article that will receive support and which will not, to send for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u5	Odajnik will pass it on to Zebrovski, please. After preparing Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u6	In support of my previous colleague's statement, the faction of the “Our Ukraine” bloc claims that it is unacceptable to consider and approve second reading and, in general, as a law, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget. At the time of the first reading, the government and the coalition violated the principles of transparency in the budgetary process, not allowing for a thorough review of the budget by the deputy corps. The MPs were not given the opportunity to hold an article discussion and vote by making a promise to do so during the second and third readings. During the drafting of the bill, the President of Ukraine repeatedly called on the government to use well-founded macroeconomic indicators to avoid lowering social standards. A large number of proposals were made by the people's deputies from "Our Ukraine." These proposals by the President of Ukraine, especially on social guarantees and the National Deputies of Our Ukraine, were not considered by the Committee on Budget Questions on second reading. As a result, the budget is based on underperforming subsistence minimum rates, which for the first time in recent years has led to a fall in real income for low-income groups. The text of the law contains rules that narrow down existing citizens’ rights by violating article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The draft law interferes with the constitutional rights of local self - government, and there is an attempt to subdue a government vertical, including local self - government. The government has made many changes to the text articles and has proposed a number of new budget programs. Contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code, these articles and programmes were not supported by justification, much of them being openly lobbyistic, and the violation of the procedures previously agreed upon by the committee was not subject to an articleistic review of the bill. Despite the above-mentioned warnings on December 5th at the Committee on Budget Affairs, the representatives of the Crisis Coalition voted in favour of recommending to the Supreme Council a draft decree on the adoption of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2007 on second reading and in general. At the time of the vote, representatives of the deputies' factions of the "Ukrainian" and BUT bloc were forced to leave the committee meeting in protest against the government's failure to comply with the requirements of the budget code of gross and cynical disregard for the rights of deputies. There were only 15 national deputies directly involved in the vote, that is, less than half of the committee. Thus, the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters is illegal. In connection with the violation of article 42, paragraphs 2 and 4, of the Budget Code and in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article, the faction "Our Ukraine" requires the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u7	Mikola Jacobina, please follow him Bondarchuk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u8	Mikola Yakovina Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, now the Prime Minister of Ukraine is on a work visit to Washington, and what we've been observing for the last weeks and months, the opposition that arises in this room, unfortunately, has slipped out of our country. What is happening now around the visit of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the very content of his meeting, the content of the issues discussed there and the reasons for which we are again receiving a new commitment on behalf of our country, shows that we are dealing with some rebranding, with an adjustment to the image. A politician who tells one to his electorate, who has a very, very clear opposition in Ukraine, says quite different things in order to enjoy himself in Washington, D.C., across the ocean. The question in Moscow is quite different. So obviously both the anti-crisis coalition and the factions in it must be clearly defined with their policies. By the way, on the image of the programs that were still foreseen in the State Budget for the costs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are now in the draft budget that was put forward today for an article-based review, we see nothing in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Similarly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its 2007 budget has absolutely nothing to do with the financing of ties with Ukrainians abroad. And then by almost 100 million, compared to the current year, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is declining. The same is true of each article of the Ministry of Defence's spending line, in the area that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is attributed to the competence of the President of Ukraine. Is this not the way of a certain silent, sluggish redistribution of authority, contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine? Because what will be brought into this room today in the context of the 2007 Article Review of the Budget Law is an attack on civil society, an attack on local self - government. Note that article 76 of the budget bill reduces not even individual positions or articles of individual laws but laws in general. I stress only one point: Article 76, paragraph 27, shortens, in general, the implementation of the Act on the provision of jobs for young people. This is about the invasion of those social rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u9	Ivan Bondarchuk, please. According to him, Dávímuk is passing Tomenko. Yes. John Boki, please hand over Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u10	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Increasingly, more and more violently, the attack on constitutional reform continues. The Revnchist forces have solved this fierce campaign, and they understand very well that today the anti-crisis coalition, the government, are making an effort to overcome the economic difficulties that have been left to them and to bring Ukraine back to democratic lines. They understand very well that political reform, constitutional reform is Ukraine's path to Europe, and it's a path to return to the bush, to the Asian form of government. But it doesn't stop them, because those people who are calling for who is torpedoing constitutional reform, who don't want to continue it, are those forces that, in fact, came into power at the turn of the orange revolution, they wanted to have a surplus of property, but they didn't get it all. Not all of it was said to be appropriate. And now the objective of constitutional reform, just a return to dictatorship that would allow them to capture something that failed to allow them to re-establish the oligaric clans in the country of government, a government that compromised themselves and within 10 years led Ukraine to the fact that two thirds of its economic potential had been destroyed. What is the position of the Socialist Party in this regard? First. We must carry out constitutional reform in a consistent and sustained manner. A second step is needed by giving authority to local self - government. As you know, such a bill is, he is said to have been approved of his time and the Constitutional Court. He's in a new lineup right now. But there is one problem. Today, there is increasing evidence that the Constitutional Court is under pressure to become a party to the anti-constitutional rebellion and to reverse the changes to the Constitution. But I think there are people in the Constitutional Court who are responsible who understand very well that if they get on this path, it will be the return of Ukraine to the bush, the return to dictatorship and the return to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko. Prepare for Chief Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I'd like to welcome all of you to the day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Today 15 years as we celebrate the celebration of those who serve in the Ukrainian Armed Forces who are protecting our country. But in addition to saying hello, I think that the Supreme Council and the government can't say anything good to our Armed Forces, because the budget that we're going to be considering today for the Ukrainian Armed Forces can be called the budget for disrespect for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the budget for the destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You know, in this sessional room, we've approved a decree that envisioned a two-percent commitment to Ukraine's defence of GDP. Today the budget has 1.39 percent, which you understand will not allow Ukraine’s Armed Forces to function properly. Here in the session hall, the Ministry of Internal Affairs was criticized for doing business rather than protecting our country. Once again, the budget provides that housing for military personnel will be allocated only at the expense of a special fund of 240 million dollars. This means that once again, the State Budget does not show respect for the army but forces it to trade. The bill stops the provision of pensions in the past period and does not provide for the order of recalculation of pensions in connection with the possible increase in the financial security of military personnel. Likewise, you know, the pension service of military pensioners is moving to the Pension Fund and there is no guarantee that this will order the service of military pensioners. There's a whole series of other social cultural articles that I'd like to pay attention to. Again, the norm we were talking about is that we're here. The budget committee and we voted to take part, usually it's that nothing counts. I want to tell you that in rural medicine, there are 100 million dollars available for the whole village for the farm and midwifery and for the purchase of ambulances. Well, who in the village today can say what can be done for rural medicine. Today, to pay the tax rates, there's an old amount left for the students, and I don't believe that this money is enough to solve that social problem. Today, the articles on physical culture and sports that our committee is looking after remain practically old figures. Just as the old figure remained, despite our criticism, on the return of the citizens' savings of 650 million dollars, while I'm curious that government spending is constantly increasing. I was surprised by the cost: three times we have been increased to serve the hunting work of the Cabinet of Ministers. We may have had so many animals that the government had to be tripled into hunting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u13	Sergey the Headate. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman and Honourable Fellow Members, I listened carefully to all the reports from Washington, D.C., where the Prime Minister is on an official visit. There have been a lot of statements in Washington about the government's intention to integrate, that the government will continue to work with NATO, that nothing changes in foreign policy. [[Raisa Vasilevna! It's the same for you.]] And it's very good that it sounded in Washington because it's the kind of neighborhood that's going forward. So let's ask the question: is it hypocrisy or is it true? And when? Why do I ask you? There are many lawyers in your faction: Kiwalov is headed by the Justice Committee, Pritica is the former head of the Master's Court, other lawyers, good lawyer Miroshnichenko, went to the Cabinet of Ministers Lucas Olga. Please tell me, this is no longer a political issue, legal: If there is a court's procedural action to stop the act, is the act working or not? It's working. Someone likes Tarasyuk, doesn't like it, likes the foreign policy proclaimed by the President, carried out by Tarasyuk and confirmed by Prime Minister Yanukovic in Washington, but there is a decision by the court to stop the act of the Supreme Council. That you are the rule of law that can still be talked about in order, in law and in the Constitution when Tolstouchov makes a decision. Raisa Vasilovna, would you please tell me that you've taken the decision of Tolstouchov or the Prime Minister? So let's, when we say some things, let's do it anyway, or we'll do it, or you, in power, the policy of official hypocrisy, it was in Soviet times. The party said one thing and did another. So whether we live in a democracy or we live in transparency and truth, then let's either say the same thing at home and do the same thing. My main interest, therefore, is that if there is a rule of law, the decision of the court is legally binding, and no one can stop it. So you can decide whether to adhere to official hypocrisy or to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u15	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Vyziewsky is the one who is to be prepared by Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u16	Stanislav Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the National Bank of Ukraine is a special institution of the state, and banks, commercial banks, the system of commercial banks is a "blood-bearing" system of our state, which, among other things, is now operating on assets 2.5 times more than the budget we are considering with you today. And so aside from the National Bank proposals or the commercial bank system, I don't think the Cabinet of Ministers has any right, so I'm also going to call on the deputies not to vote for this budget today. I'd like to give you a few examples. To date, the Cabinet of Ministers has not taken into account the increase in the government’s national domestic debt to the National Bank in the total amount of 130 million dollars. The Cabinet of Ministers, in grave violation of the law, article 5 of the National Bank Act concerning the introduction into the State Budget of overexpenditure over expenditure in the following reporting year, retains the practice of quarterly receiving such funds. Next. The Cabinet of Ministers has turned down proposals to settle the debt problem of the Cabinet of Ministers to the National Bank for deferred loans received to finance the State Budget, amounting to nearly $1.5 billion and to transfer these debts to debt securities. The Cabinet of Ministers also refused to pay for the National Bank and used the electronic system and today the Ukrainian banking system has had to rely on tens of millions of people. The Cabinet of Ministers never withdrew taxes from the banking system and their customers from foreign currency purchase operations. Not included, by the way, is our Banking Committee's proposal to increase the people's investment guarantee fund, where, by the way, the state is the founder of a surplus in the National Bank. There is also a disregard for the proposal to increase citizens’ compensation for the loss of deposits. There is no support for our committee's proposal to increase the capitalisation of state banks on which a number of state programs rely. The Cabinet of Ministers never realized that the implementation of an investment-innovation model without the wide involvement of the banking system was impossible. So I propose not to support this project today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u17	Lilia Grigorovitch, please. And it's probably going to be two more minutes. Mikola Sivuliski, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u18	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear chairman, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! The rhetorical question that today is from the mouth of every politician, a journalist from the TV channels, is whether or not there is a usurpation of power in Ukraine. I dare say I do. And, with your permission, I'm going to make public those extremely strong and visual evidence that says so. I have in my hands not the Constitution, not the Bible, but the “2000” newspaper, the most consonant source of information and decisions that are being made in the country at the highest level. In July of the day, when there was an attempt on the part of one of the members of the Party of Journalists of the “STB” Channel, I made a statement called: “They’re coming back.” Today, I am fully responsible for this rostrum: they have returned, they are the same, they have hardly learned anything. Who doubts this, please read the interview by Prime Minister Janukovič of Ukraine up to a hundred days of his reign, where in the last paragraph, the journalist asks: “How do you react to the freedom of expression of Ukrainian civil society? In the four paragraphs of the Prime Minister, I will not quote in the absence of time, states: “I strongly encourage everyone to think and who will prevent us from working”, three dots. Dear friends, there is no name and name of the zoo. It's already a big benefit and so forth. That's why I'm saying today, yes, unfortunately, they're coming back. They're going back to authoritarian manual mode. And those who do not believe, please read the draft budget that is proposed to us, where it is proposed to delegate spending manually, one or the other, to a humble or disobedient region under article 57. Who doubts that they are returning, consider December 1st, when in an unconstitutional, illegal way, even the courts of the first instance deny the decisions that were made on December 1st by the Foreign Minister, Mr. Tarasyuk, testify to absolute legal lawlessness. The word “negelism” is too noble here. A letter from the head of the Party of the Regions to the samurai appeared in the magazine “The Mirror of the Week. ” The samurai are those who are willing to give their lives for the sake of their people. Answering the challengers. The origins were always on the borders of a foreign empire. A society in Ukraine will not pass!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u19	Please, Mikola Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u20	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear voters. I want us all to welcome the fact that the ruling coalition has finally carried out one of the planned targets for 2006. The point is that, according to the 11 months of the current year, inflation in Ukraine exceeded the planned size of the entire year: 10 by plan, 10 by 6, according to the Statekombt, based on 11 months. This has resulted in the next trend, with the first months of the government of Yanuković in Ukraine beginning to lower real wages. If the increase was 0.4% in July, the fall was 99.5, the fall was 99.3, the fall was 97.6. These are the records of the State Department, which you're also in charge of. Where can we more objectively reflect the situation in the country? We are now being reviewed for the second reading of the 2007 budget. The review of this budget shows that this policy, which has been initiated since the first days of coalition governance, will continue in 2007. Notice that, despite the numerous proposals for the 86th article, which sets the minimum wage, neither the Supreme Council, voting on the first reading, nor the government, preparing for the second reading of the budget, did I raise the minimum wage. Half a year, all citizens who receive minimum income will receive lower wages than in December, because they are introduced, they are taxed by 2% of the income of individuals. And only October 1st begins to raise the minimum wage. The minimum pension is raised by only 15 dollars, taking into account inflation, which is planned to be 7.5, which means that you are planning to reduce life.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u21	Thank you, colleague. Dear colleagues, all according to the Rules. Two left, used by Mikola Ivanovich. There'd be three left, I'd use three. Dear colleagues, about the thoughts you express in your speeches. First of all, consider the question of the State Budget in the second reading. I'm telling you, I promise you that the consideration of the question of Ukraine's State Budget for 2007 in the second reading will be carried out in accordance with the 43rd article of the Budget Code and the 143rd article of the Rules, as required and as required. There'll be an article vote, there'll be a discussion, there'll be a presentation -- I would like to stress that, accordingly, article 43 of the Code of Budget and article 143 of the Rules. In order to really have a chance to look at the committee's decision that you received today, at the conclusion of the committee, to wrap it up again. Budget prepared for second reading. We will begin our consideration of this issue at 12.30 p.m. At 12: 30 p.m., we will begin our consideration of the budget issue. Now we're going to look at other questions. If there is time left, we will announce a recess so that you can still communicate in factions, determine whether to vote on one or the other articles. The other one. Regarding the speeches of our colleagues in connection with the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court. As I have just been informed, the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court has been taken with a cynical violation of the procedure, because none of the representatives of the Supreme Council has been notified of the matter, and the representative of the Supreme Council has not taken part in the hearing of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. Here Sergey Petrovich, a well - known lawyer of European scale, addressed our colleagues and asked why you did not perform. Sergey Petrovich, let me ask you why, as Minister of Justice, you and today's acting President have failed to implement a series of decisions by the courts regarding the release of Piscoon? Why didn’t you then make a decision if you say that everything you have accepted must be done. So, please, dear colleagues, and one more point. You know, I'm here to support one of the speakers who talked about legal mess. What judges do, especially Judge Kiev, is a real legal mess. When a judge can cancel the President's decree, you know the Kyiv administration that's being created, so far there are two heads of administration. Whether it's a decision for the Attorney General I mentioned. And that's why I think I'm going to the profile committee, and I'm going to my colleagues. When we consider the issue of the indefinite election of judges in Kiev, let us take a rather careful look at those who go to the judiciary. Here we go to the question of the draft Law on the Indicative List of Property Rights Objects that are subject to privatization in 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u22	I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u23	I also have the right to a replica because you were addressing me. And if you'll excuse me, you also remembered me and asked me a question. I told you. I told you. You mentioned the chairman. Wait, wait, wait. Richter’s mention of the Glaucoma was, please, a minute of replication. Then the Headman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, today it is not only about the coalition’s resignation from the Foreign Minister. It's about a little deeper things that we're trying to do today. First, Boris Tarasyuk viewed his position as a separate line of conduct in a situation not only as a separate line of conduct but as an exacerbation of the situation between the institutions of power. And the coalition has made the right decision that this is very dangerous, and this precedent does not have to be repeated in this government or in the next. And that's why Boris Tarasyuk was properly retired. As for my colleague, the lawyer who just spoke. If only he had not stood up for the judgment of the court at that time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u25	Please, Headmaster, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u26	Dear Sir, thank you and answer. Those whom you mentioned, including the former Attorney General, know that the court's procedural action to stop the legal act means that the act does not have the normative force. Thus, the status of the Foreign Minister today is the same as that of the Supreme Council’s decision to release him with full powers, rights and duties. And the second is about the case you're ordering, the honourable presiding officer I was presenting in court. I won it in three trials. The first was the institution, the appeal and the cassation. I won it and she's in the Supreme Court today. I think I'm probably going to share it the same way, even though I'm not going to represent it. I don't know if they're gonna do it, but I'm gonna prove it, because it's not a matter of the administrative court, it's a matter of constitutional jurisdiction. And in this situation, the higher court of cassation confirmed my position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. You rightly say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not the District Court, but the Constitutional Court. Let him look at it. Let the Constitutional Court consider it. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. We are considering the Law in our second reading on the Oriental List of Property Rights Objects under Privatization in 2007. Registration number 2550. Please take the tables, we will. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is based on the second reading of the draft Law on the List of State Property Objects under Privatization in 2007. When we considered this issue in the first reading, many comments, constructive remarks, were made and written from the rostrum. And the committee, and I am very grateful to the people's deputies for these constructive remarks. And virtually all of these remarks were taken into account yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, which was held for three hours. I want to say that in the process of furthering this bill, we worked very closely and productively with the State Property Fund, with her head Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the individual National Deputies. I want to focus on some of the fundamental points. We are very grateful that these comments were made, and we have counted them by a hundred percent. One of the principal comments that occurred in this room when we considered it in the first reading, and it was written in writing, applied to the title of the law. You remember that in the first reading, the law was called the Oriental list of property rights that are subject to privatization. And there was a suggestion that the word “orientative” should be removed and left simply “for the listing of property rights”. It's all taken into account. There was a second such critical thought that was expressed from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and the President of Ukraine said, and the national deputies in writing, where they expressed concern about the fact that the list that we adopted in the first reading posed great risks not to carry out the proceeds of privatization in the amount of 10 billion. And this list should include the most attractive, investment - attractive, large industrial objects. And the proposal was from the President’s mouth, to include objects that would be privatized next year and by Ukratelek, Odessa’s porter. I will report to you from this rostrum, the committee's decision to take these proposals into account, and the Odessa Odessa, which are included in the list of objects that will be privatized next year. Next came the opinion of individual deputies from the Supreme Council’s rostrum and written in order to privatise the objects according to the auction scheme, as was the second privatisation of the “Cruvoristals”. I want to say, and that's the solution, and it's included directly in this bill. The idea was to increase investment attractiveness and increase the price of sales of objects with a view to reducing the risk of default in the privatisation budget, including sales and the price of the land on which the objects are located. I want to say that this is also fully included in this law. Next, I want to say that there were a lot of comments from the national MPs, the different polarists, some MPs, who suggested that individual enterprises be removed from the list of objects to be privatized, and others insisted that individuals be included. I would like to say that almost a hundred percent of the proposals made by all national deputies, including the President's proposal to include in the list of Ukratelecom and Odeski Příports. I apologize very much for the removal of the People’s Deputy Kožemykin, but he suggested the removal of some 60 items in the list. And the committee saw in this, they say, a mine under the State Budget, because the removal of these objects, not the proposed additions, would have reduced the budget's resource base because they had reduced sales revenue. So we counted a large portion of the national deputy, Cosemyakin, including the removal of the privatization of polygraph companies, and we could not even analyze part of it. And the request is that we have the other ministries of government look at it, and then we can go back there in a month and make further changes to that list. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, when we came to our home, we adopted a draft law on the list of privatization objects in the first reading. What he was supposed to do, to ensure that the $10 billion was coming to the state budget, this list came to the committee, and in this list there were a lot of such technical mistakes -- somewhere there was an address wrong, it was correctly written, the wrong enterprise code, and so on. And yesterday before the committee meeting, we received an official proposal from Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, saying that some of the objects that were proposed in the first reading, and unfortunately they had been sold or went bankrupt by now — they had been eliminated. Such objects are no longer state - owned. And there was Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk's proposal that we make appropriate technical adjustments to take into account these technical mistakes, as they say. This has to do with the fact that, unfortunately, we have one register or props in the Departments of the Sector, one by one, in the State Department. And the fund, when he was meeting with the Ministry, only yesterday, he was said to have agreed to final props with the State Department. And we've corrected those mistakes, and those businesses that are now gone, because at the time, between the first reading and today, they're not in the register of state property, on a proposal from the committee, I've made these corrections as a representative of the committee, and we can't rule out these enterprises, because we can't vote, as Gogol says, for dead souls. In addition, we ask, we write down the proposal and we take into account – this is to introduce technical legal regulations and re-check the props of enterprises to make sure that the address is correct, the street name, so that there is no further objection to the sale of these objects. And in conclusion, I ask you to support this bill, I repeat, it takes almost 100% of all the proposals made by the people's deputies, and the adoption of this bill will ensure that we create a real resource base under the State Budget in 2007 in part of the privatisation of 10 billion. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u29	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Before we go to the definition of voting, there are no questions, this is the second reading. But with your permission, I'm sure you have a comment from the Chief Legal Authority, and I'm going to ask you all the questions, because it's pretty important. The second bill provides for the approval of a list of property rights subject to privatisation in 2007, according to Appendix 3. In accordance with article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution, however, the Supreme Council of Ukraine exercises those powers that are related to its knowledge of the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine includes the approval of only a list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Why do we approve of those who are subject? Let the Cabinet of Ministers approve them. Please, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u30	Indeed, on the one hand, the prerogative of the Supreme Council to approve a list of objects that are not subject to privatization is now numbered at about a thousand. And we confirm, it is said, a list of objects whose privatisation should provide a resource base of the budget for part of the privatisation revenue in 2007 amounting to 10 billion dollars. Why is this being done? This is done in order to reduce the risks of a failure of the plan of arrival. This year's failed privatisation plan, you know, instead of two billion we got 300 or 250 million dollars there, yes. And if accepted, this list will be approved by law on sales, then no one will be able to stop creating a joint venture, not to rent it, and it will only go to privatization and its costs will be directed towards the implementation of the government budget revenue plan. I reiterate that the adoption of this bill as a law, this list as a law, will more effectively guarantee the implementation of the plan of revenue from privatization into the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u31	It is. But the Cabinet of Ministers can do the same, which, according to the law, rules state property and no one has the right to do anything without it. It's us, I don't know, you bet your ass, and we will be. Yes. We're going to vote in an article, we're going to vote in an article. I'll be, if any of those suggestions that, as it were, are taken into account or not, someone insists, I'll give him my word. Yeah, on the first page? Second? Third? Four? Fifth? Six? Yes. Please, Bondar, which way?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u32	Adam Ivanovich! "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". I'm asking for the Rules. The point is that the changes made to this list are interfering with the competence of the Special Supervisory Commission on privatization, government and fund intervention and many other things of principle. And if we don't discuss the amendments adopted by the subcommittee right now, we're going to destroy the legislative framework for privatization. I ask you to give at least a few speeches from the commission and from the faction and discuss this principled question. We cannot follow the amendments that are ruining the whole process of privatization in Ukraine. And what you've read, the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, are just one part of the observations. He suggests not to accept this list. I'm asking you to discuss this before you go after the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u33	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, distinguished colleagues! Mikhail Vasilovich, wait, wait, please. Dear colleagues, see how the second reading of the bill is being implemented. You're right, that's why I gave you my word. If you have a reference to an accepted, considered amendment, or to your unaccounted for amendment, you have the right to argue it and we will put it to a vote each and every single one. This is going to be a discussion. There is no more general discussion on second reading. I mean, there's no sixth. On the seventh right? Yes, please, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u34	Mikhail Vasilovich, after the first five amendments, where you change the name of the real list into a simple list. I'm talking to you as an expert. Whether it is possible in court to cancel any decisions of the privatization fund, there are few objects, unfinished construction that have not been included in this list, because it is mandatory. You are completing all the privatization in Ukraine only by limiting this list. As a professional, I ask you, is there such a possibility and there is such a danger? What will not be sold to objects that are not included in this list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u35	I repeat that this list is not final, and I apologized to National Deputy Cosemékin, who brought 60 items to the removal. And if we remove 60 objects, we are said to reduce the budget base, and other objects are not foreseen, and we have only considered part of its proposals. And there is work to be done with, and it is said, by the branch ministries of government. So and with regard to the objects you're talking about is the State Property Fund, we can add these objects to the body of the law and vote in a month and these objects, and privatization will not stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u36	Yes, that was the question. But once again, dear colleagues, you have no right to ask. You can put the fifth, the tenth, the one hundred and seven tenths of the vote, arguing why it should be voted on or not supported. Yes, the seventh amendment, Tsushka. Eight, please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u37	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished rapporteur. I want us to put to the vote amendment 8, or the committee has agreed to withdraw article three in the form in which it was transmitted, because it is in the form in which it was written, a direct intervention in the work of the State Property Fund. I'll just read a few lines. “The committee shall determine the terms and methods of privatization, the initial cost of the privatization object, the recommended forms of payment, the size of the shares with direct implementation.” That is, whatever the purpose of the committee is to directly interfere with the work of the State Property Fund, this is contrary to the constitutional standards that are in place to date. And that is why I want either the committee to agree to remove this amendment, or we put it to a vote and confirm it by 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u38	Well, I'll narrow it down to the committee. The point is that the implementation of the State Budget in part of the privatisation proceeds is a state matter, and here everyone should be involved: both the State Property Fund, and help him, and the Supreme Council, and the government. And this year we see that unfortunately, for various reasons, but the privatization plan is not implemented. To make it. And for the second year, it's going to be 10 billion. And in order to reduce the risk of misconduct, it is proposed that the Economic Policy Committee put its back on the State Property Fund and help it implement this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, be careful. I confirm the words Sergey Matvienkov said that this article is contrary to the Constitution. I suggest we rule her out. Please vote. Please vote off the third article. [[10:58:09]] For-173 Dear colleagues, once again, let us adopt laws that will be signed, not returned to us with shame. There is no right for any committee to control a state authority. We don't have that right. Then let's write it down: we eliminate the State Property Fund, we hand over the functions of the State Property Fund to the Economic Policy Committee, and let everyone run it. Please sign up. Sign up for the factions. Please, Matvienkov, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u40	Adam Ivanovich, I repeat our position, our position clear, clear and transparent. We have assigned the State Property Fund the amount of work to be done. That is, we gave them a certain amount that they should receive from privatization. Second moment. We cannot today, on the basis of the articles of the Constitution, become part of the State Property Fund. These are their rights, their duties, and they will be held accountable, not the Committee will be responsible, for failing to comply with these rules. The Committee will today determine the tranches, determine the prices and so on, and so on. So, Adam Ivanovich, you ask the question clearly: What are we voting for now? Either we vote in favour of excluding this article, so that the MPs know clearly, or we vote in favour of pedifying this article, so that it can win 226 votes because the MPs have not focused. And I'm going to ask you again to vote, because we didn't understand, so to speak, the question that you asked, which is why we voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u41	Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u42	Please give the floor to the Deputy of Platinum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u43	Paid for, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u44	I'm very grateful to my colleague. My fellow Members, I would like to be very careful, as the author of the amendment, and this amendment has been made by the representatives of almost all the political forces in Parliament. We don't pretend to replace the Fund and work for the Fund. Please read the amendment! The State Property Fund agrees with the committee. And yesterday, at a committee meeting, we decided that only objects that were monopolized or included in a list of enterprises that were strategically important. The Supreme Council can't be apart from these issues, and we don't want to agree, we want to. But if there's room will, we can take it off without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u45	Quality, please. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to confirm the arguments that Matthew said, and I talked about it on the committee yesterday, but unfortunately they didn't listen to me, because I really want to get some people on the committee to fund. It's not the Supreme Council's function committee. You can control, you can monitor, but you don't have the right to make the decisions the fund makes. This is dangerous for you to make decisions, to sanctify them, which will then be brought before the courts. Where are you going?Oh, my God! What I'm saying is that it's impossible to implement this norm. It is not possible for the committee to consider professional principles on the subject of objects. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be voted on separately and that it be confirmed by a majority of 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u47	Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u48	Thank you. Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u49	Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u50	People's Honourable Deputies! I think that this law is not the only article that contradicts the Constitution and common sense. This law can't be adopted at all, because it's actually the last chance for those in power to bring in a massive shipment of government property. And what the law proposes is that it actually offers the last enterprises, the profitable enterprises, to blow into the pockets of those who vote in favour of this law. Therefore, our faction is firmly opposed to the adoption of this law at all. And we turn to all the deputies who have the dignity not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! You heard the conversation, including the chairman of the committee agreed that there was something to be ruled out. But let me do what the Rules require, be careful. I'm voting on a proposal to support the committee's position. Who's in charge of supporting the committee's position? [[11:03:43]] For 1 For one, for one, for the other, for the other, for the other, and for the other, for the other. By factions, show by factions. Have you seen the factions? “Our Ukraine” supported, one. And one against the Timoshenko Block, and one held up. Thus, article three is deleted. Yes, it's counted. I mean, about the eighth amendment. The ninth amendment is counted, the 10th is counted, the 11th is counted, the 12th is counted, the 13th is counted, the 14th. On the 12th? Please, Miroshnichenko at 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u52	Dear colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I propose an amendment to the 12th to exclude and to delete article 4 of this law accordingly, because we are also actually interfering with this article in the activities of the State Property Fund and we are depriving it of its ability to work normally as a body responsible for privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u53	Well, I don't fully agree with you here, because we don't forbid anything. On the contrary, we say to him, “Work according to the law.” Right? There is no limit to the fund. It's the other way around. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u54	I'll comment. Once the house is burned down, we don't have to put out the fire. And when December has failed the privatisation plan in a year, we won't do anything, we won't do anything. We have to make a quarterly privatisation plan around the neighborhood. And let the Fund do its best to make every quarter of the money available to the State budget. If I tell you that you do not eat Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Saturday 18 times will feed you, you will say: “Why do I need this? Every day I have to sit and eat twice a table. So by budget, the privatisation costs go to the state budget and they should be used evenly for the income part, for the spending part of the budget, so this is where the State Property Fund is proposed by January 1st to develop and approve a quarterly privatisation plan for state property rights under this Act. Let them design, break everything in the neighborhood, yes. So that we don't have all of our privatization in December, and it's going to be 9 billion in 3 blocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u55	With that in mind, Baranowski? Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u56	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Mr. Chechetov, you are a professional, we wrote down with you that the privatization of objects will necessarily go with the land. You know very well how much time it takes to produce a land project, I'm already saying, not for the object itself, but for the same area, to approve it accordingly, to go through the whole procedure. This takes four months at a minimum, or up to a year, for the length of exercise in local authorities. How can you plan such a plan clearly, quarterly. Today the State Property Fund has a plan and it has to plan it. Yes, it's not, today you don't eat every day, although I don't think you eat Vladimir Mikhailovich every day, as you say. It doesn't work that way in life. And what's more, you want me to do with the wealth fund. We have a budget, we can't collect any taxes clearly by numbers, because there are certain moments that affect. And you want to privatize, you want to call your head on the carpet a month, a quarter, some goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u57	I agree with you in one thing, that maybe not as a professional, I can say, really, maybe we won't get even sales and even income from neighborhoods. But anyway, we need to approve the plan and show that good, not 2.5 billion in the first quarter of privatization, but 100 million. Then the Minister of Finance will know that he has a hole of 2 billion and a half in the first quarter. And he'll think ahead of time about how to close that hole. In the second quarter of a hundred million, yes, then Azarov should know that he's got a five-billion-billion-dollar hole in his six-year hole, yes, and what's that hole going to have to be covered. That's what we're talking about, otherwise we're talking about the government, yeah. The Government should know what the real resource base would be in the first quarter, in the second quarter and in the third. We can't work blindly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, well, the author of the initiative no longer insists, so she stays. Please, the 13th. Vote? Who is in favour of deleting the fourth article, please vote. [[11:08:58]] For-42 13th Amendment. I'll do it again. Dear colleagues, please take the Rules and read, and then you will read something. Do you have a objection? Pick up, I'll give you my word. Well, why vote for nothing? I'm sorry. The 13th, the 14th, the 15th, the 16th. 16th? Please, Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u59	It's the same amendment. We've already voted on it. It's the same amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u60	I see what kind of corrections that have been made. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, we must first vote on the amendment, support it or not, and not reject it. There is no such procedure. If there is an amendment to a specific MP, it must be voted for. And this amendment applies to another. Here, control functions rely on the Economic Policy Committee. I would like to remind you that according to privatization legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u61	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry, you're talking about the 17th, and I was asking about the 16th. We will. Well, the 15th is the same thing: "The foundation of state property by February 1st to develop and approve a quarterly one." We wrote it down until January 1st, and here we have until February 1st. I mean, you have until you're 17. Please, the microphone. But consider that we have practically voted on it. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u62	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry, but I have number 16. Control functions rely again on the committee, that is, privatization is transferred to manual management. In accordance with privatization legislation, exclusive privatization control functions are placed on a special monitoring commission, which was designed specifically for this purpose. I believe that this amendment should be voted on and confirmed by a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u63	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u64	I'll explain. Well, the review board worked this year. And it worked so hard, it controlled that the privatization plan was down. We are not saying that we want the authority of the monitoring commission to overstretch ourselves, but the same is true of keeping our hands on the pulse. We propose that once a month we obtain written information, what is being done with privatization, what plans are coming, how to work for the Government, what resource base is today and tomorrow. Once the head of the fund comes to the committee in a quarter, he'll tell us what's going on. Well, what's wrong with that if we get a profile committee to make it quick? Maybe we can help. Maybe she'll tell me that's where the government gets in my way, interferes with the ministry. Then we will go to the Supreme Council and ask the Supreme Council to intervene and assist the State Property Fund in the implementation of the law that we have adopted. Therefore, there are no strains of authority. I think that, together with the Privatization Supervisory Commission, we will carry out one important public task: to enforce this law, which will create a budget base of 10 billion. There's nothing to joke about. Ten billion if he doesn't, it'll be a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u65	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u66	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhail Vasilovich, I offer a compromise. This is the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy. But in principle, the Supreme Council has a control function in general. It is possible, as a compromise, to change this edition and include the Supreme Council, not the “committee”. We will accordingly receive information, not just from the committee, but from all the deputies, and we do not violate the principle that our colleague Alexander Bondar spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u67	I'll answer that. The fact is that, under the law in force, the Constitution will be reported to the Supreme Council once a year. Once a year. And the information is quarterly for operational intervention, in order to act quickly, we ask that we get it right here in the fund, in the committee. That's what this is about. And you don't have to drag Valentine Petrovna here every quarter. She'll be working later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues. Now we're gonna figure it out, Alexander Petrovich. It'll be all right now. Dear colleagues, we have just discussed a similar situation. There is no such right on any committee. But there's an amendment, so I'm reacting to Bondar's remarks, and I'm betting, be careful, and I'm voting in favour of Amendment No. 17, on support. [[11:13:53]] For 202 Not accepted. Yeah, 18th Amendment. You can't put yours on either, sorry. They told you that. They report to us anyway. It was not enough that we were still in charge, that the Supreme Council was a foundation, that is, a privatization. Eighteen, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u69	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, on the point that the 18th amendment, the second paragraph of this amendment also says that control of the implementation of the plan should be placed on the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy. We'd vote first. And they'd all have to be, yeah, machine-walked and voted out, but. Secondly, I would like to say that in this case, colleagues, by making such amendments, are demeaning our fellow MPs who are working on the Special Monitoring Commission, which, on behalf of the Supreme Council, has been appointed to oversee privatization. And when you talk, you prove the arguments that you've been in bad control, you're giving an assessment to our colleagues. They can give you an estimate of how you controlled it or how you privatized it. So let's be more careful in our grades, and let's not humiliate our colleagues, but we will act in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, note that Amendments 18, 19, 20 and 21 are partially counted because they are included in the previous 17th. Since we didn't support the 17th, so the amendments 18, 19, 20 and 21 are also unaccounted for, and also unaccounted for. 22 revisions. Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! We've just been told that in order to implement a 10-billion-dollar budget plan, this list needs to be accepted. This article, which is included in the text of this law, makes privatization in Ukraine impossible at all. I'm explaining how a professional is doing. Just now, MP Baranovsky said how much land must be prepared for sale under privatization. It says that more than 25 percent of all objects are sold with land. That's the first one. That is, there will be no such objects at all. The other one. We are told that auction competitions will be opened, as is “Criminal”. I'm asking, like the first "Crowristal" or the second? Because the terms of the competition that determine the production of one million tons of domestic coke remain in the Kabmina Foundation. And he can even put these conditions on open auction. That is why I believe that this list is dangerous for the privatization process. And I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u72	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u73	I'll comment. There was a proposal, I repeat, the previous call was made and it was considered on the committee to ensure that enterprises were sold together with the land on which the enterprise was located in order to increase the price of sales and increase the amount of money in the budget. So you write the form like this, here is Alexander Nikolayevich absolutely right, and you see that two views are absolutely expressed by the former Minister of the APC, who clearly said that the land is not ready for sale. And he actually showed in his statement that if one hundred percent did what was written, then we'd get zero, we'd get a bubble hole from privatization. Baranowski said it, and he said it quite right, as a professional, he couldn't lie. Alexander Nikolayevich immediately caught him as a professional and said yes, and what are we doing then? If we're going to write down the sale completely with the land, then we can't sell if the land isn't ready, we can't privatize, then we'll get zero on the way out. So it's very smart to write the formula here, which is written so that where the object is ready to be sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u74	Yes, I am voting on the proposal to support the 6th article, namely, 22 amendments. It's exactly the same. [[11:18:34]] For 221 Please sign up. The factions. Miroshenko, please. Chubarov's after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to address you, Adam Ivanovich, not all of you have understood, but I would like to return to this article and vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u76	Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u77	Ukrainian Republican Party “The Council”, “Our Ukraine” block, Anatoly Matvienko. Adam Ivanovich, I'm addressing you and I'm addressing Mikhail Vasilovich. Mikhail Vasilovich, I understand that the person who reports from the rostrum has some sympathy. I understand that you're the chief "regulator" in the Supreme Council, the faction or the anti-crisis coalition, but you came out as the person who reports from the committee. And I would like all of your behavior to be objective, raise one hand or two hands, then give it to someone, let him report for you, while you stay in your place. As Julius Caesar, you do three things at the same time, it is a demonstration of disrespect not only for the Supreme Council but also for the entire Ukrainian people. I ask you to behave properly in the rostrum. And you, Adam Ivanovich, are being followed by a reporter who should be neutral and independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u78	Anatoly Sergeiovich, I disagree with you. Rather than being a representative of the faction, the committee’s rapporteur and the committee’s rapporteur are obliged to speak to the committee. He speaks with his hand, he understands gestures. Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues! Let's go over Amendment 22 again. It makes it clear that privatization should go with land. She makes it clear that we have to do everything on a competitive basis, clearly all of this. Everything here is clear and clear. I support, here in "Our Ukraine" were previous colleagues speaking and talking about how they didn't understand what to vote for? So, Adam Ivanovich, please put this amendment to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u81	Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Bondar Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u83	Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u84	Alexander Bondar. "The Council," faction "Our Ukraine." The faction of "Our Ukraine" is very well aware of what this amendment says. This amendment indicates that nothing can be sold after this amendment. And what Mikhailo Vasilovich said is not written in the text, and that's just his personal thoughts. So we generally say that such principled things, which and how to sell, should be written in the State Privatization Program and submitted to Parliament for consideration. And we're going to look at them and approve them. And putting it in the text of a list that doesn't have anything to do with it, it's bad for privatization, I've talked about it. So I ask that this amendment no longer be accepted and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u85	Yeah, right. Who's to go back to voting on this amendment to Article 6, please vote. [[11:22:41]] For 209 We're not back. So let's move on. Twenty-third. Article 24th. Is there no objection? Article 8, article 9, article 10. Miroshenko, which way? In the tenth article? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I propose not to support this article, because I think it is lobbyist and therefore it is neither beneficial nor beneficial to the State nor, in principle, does not benefit the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u87	This is "Azova Oils and Oils" – AZMOL. Then I put to the vote who is in favour of supporting this amendment. Article 10 shall be voted on. [[11:23:58]] For 196 Article 10 is not accepted. Article 11th. The eleventh article, page 12, does it not? Let's go to the repairs here, because there are these objects. Twenty-six. Is there a twenty-fifth? Twenty - five can no longer exist, for this is the case in the tenth article. What about the new article? Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, it says here that “in fact”. But I'm proposing because that's the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u89	I'm sorry, it's not really counted anymore, because we didn't support the sixth article. I mean, we don't have to talk anymore, because the sixth article unfortunately fell out. Yes, twenty - six, twenty - seven, twenty - eight, twenty - nine, thirty - nine, thirty - one, thirty - three, thirty - three, thirty - four, thirty - five, thirty - six, thirty - seven, Cosemic. Don't you insist? Cosmiakin. The thirty - fifth amendment of Cosemekin was rejected. Please, your position. Thirty-seven turned down. This is page 15. Remove the light - watered case combination of solid alloys and long - term metals. Yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you remove from Appendix 1 the Lighthouse Box combination of solid alloys and impenetrable metals. We have considered this issue on the committee and it has been decided by the commission on this enterprise. And I would also like to remind you, Mikhail Vasilovich, that according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the Supreme Council's control commission, section 2 of the Commission's direction of action. Please see paragraph 1 for all control functions and systematic control.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u91	Yes. Clearly, respectable colleagues. The 37th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Kožemyakin makes proposals, removes from Appendix 1 the Light - Guided Casual combination of solid alloys and dreary metals. I'm voting on the proposal of a national MP. Who, in order to support the proposal made by the national deputy Cosemiakin, please vote. [[11:27:11]] For-157. I didn't get the offer. The committee is still editing. 38, 39, 40 are listed here, 44, 46 furskins rejected, please. Page 46, page 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the 46th Amendment. We propose to remove the state-owned enterprise The Temp Institute of Science and Technology. Unfortunately, this proposal is rejected by our committee of profile. Thank you. I would like to conclude my previous speech and remind Mikhailo Vasilovich that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supervisory Commission is systematically monitoring compliance with Ukrainian legislation on privatization, the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme and the enforcement of legislation on privatization. And as an expert in these matters and a longtime head of the Maintenance Fund, you well know that there are such situations under the tenth article of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u93	Yes, please, Mikhail Vasilovich, answer and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u94	I want to apologize. You just misunderstood me. We didn't want to take your responsibilities, we just wanted to help you. If that's how it was interpreted. I said in Ukrainian that I said something wrong, so I apologize deeply to you. Again, I was just trying to help. To help you and me carry out a major, important public task. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u95	Yes, there was an exchange of thought. I am voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Cosemyakin to remove the number one state-owned scientific and technological institute of Temp. Please vote. [[11:29:15]] For-173 Unfortunately, it's not supported. Same thing, forty-seven. National Deputy Kožemjakin proposes to remove the “State Science and Production Enterprise Photomasch”, which is the Sumska District. Please vote in favour. [[11:29:49]] For-166 The next forty-eighth. Kožemjakin's colleague suggests that the number one “State Research Institute for Sanitary Engineering and Equipment Buildings and Buildings” be removed from the appendix. It's in Kiev. Please vote. [[11:30:24]] For a hundred and Yes, Kozemykin, 49th. Remove from Appendix 1 of the Sport Hotel. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, well, with regard to the 49th Amendment, I'd like to say the following. The point is that this issue has been discussed on a number of occasions on the committee of profile headed by the national deputy Tomenko. And this has been reported even in the media, and has been discussed on many occasions. And colleagues from the Party of Regions also supported the fact that this object should be removed from the list. from the list. So I suggest you support this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u97	Come on, Mikhail Vasilovich, please. Now, now, Mikhail Vasilovich. I'll go to you for clarification, let's all figure out what Appendix 1 is. Appendix 1 is a change to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. That is, if it is written down, this object is not privatized. If you propose to delete, then “Sport” will be privatised. Do you understand your mistake?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u98	No, no. No, no, no, no. Adam Ivanovich, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u99	Explain, but explain correctly, for I read according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u100	So Appendix 1 is what we approved in the first reading a list of objects that we removed that were not allowed to privatize. And we've confirmed that the Sport Hotel has been removed from the privatization ban. And, I mean, we'd like to unlock his privatisation on the first reading. It is now predicted and suggested that this decision be reversed and that the hotel be left in state ownership again. That is why we support this decision so that we do not privatize the hotel and support the vote on rejection. In this way we will leave the Sport Hotel in state ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, now, now. 49, come on, I don't know what you're voting for, but I don't personally know what to vote for. So I read again, look at page 12. “The changes that are made to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Exclude from the list. “ I don’t know I mean. Comrade Easy, I'm making a note of you interrupting the Chief. Can't you handle it? Listen first, and then you'll get the word. Let's figure out what we have to vote for. Once again, I read to you that changes are made to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Changes, add-ons. Exclude from the list and list of objects. Do we exclude from the list that we cannot privatize or that we can privatize?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u102	Adam Ivanovich, I'll explain again. There is an official list, about a thousand sites that are banned for sale, for privatization. When we were first reading, that's why. In order to increase the number of objects to be sold, we have made annex number one, and in this annex number one we have included several, 20 or how many objects that have been removed from the list of prohibited objects, including from the list of prohibited and the Sport Hotel. I mean. As if on the first reading we had unlocked the sale. Now the People's Deputy Kožemiakin suggests that no, once again, from the list that we have drawn up, removed and returned to the main list - in bans, it is necessary to leave it in state power. Therefore, if we vote in favour of the proposal of People's Deputy Kožemjakin, we will leave the Sport Hotel in state power. I propose to support the proposal of the People's Deputies and Tomenko, and Kožemjakina, to turn down, and to leave the Sport Hotel in state power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u103	So, dear colleagues, I say clearly: we are voting for the infection to support the amendment of colleague Cosemiakin and to exclude the “Sport” hotel from the objects of privatization. Understood, what are we voting for? So that the Sport Hotel does not have the right to privatise. Vote. [[11:35:21]] For 415 Decision taken. No motive, no motive. 50th Amendment. Same situation. To remove from the appendix the National Research and Research Institute of Technology from the prospect of energy development of EnergyPerspective. This is the city of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote of support. [[11:36:01]] For 171 Not supported. Yeah, 51, 52 accounted for. Declined 53. To delete. delete the Odessa Ship Repair Plant “Ukraine”. [[Cosmiakin]] Please vote in favour. [[11:36:33]] For-187 Not supported. Yes, fur 54, 5, 6, 8, 9th accounted for. This is Cosmacks, all of them, including before. including 75 counts. Nobody insists? Those that are counted, right? 76, 7 counted, 8, 9, 80, 81, 2, 3, 4. 85 with editorial detail. 86, 87, 88. 89 Cozemyakin’s colleagues were rejected. Remove from Appendix No.3 the Science and Production Enterprise "Machiiv Mining Machine Plant". They'll explain to you what Appendix No.3 is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u104	Appendix No.3 tells us about the list of objects to be privatized is planned to be privatized in 2007, that is, if we refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u105	Then it won't be privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u107	Right. I'm putting forward a proposal by my colleague Kožemjakin to ban the privatization of ZAT, the Science and Production Company of the Macyiv Mining Plant. Please vote. [[11:38:10]] For 171 Not supported. 90 - accounted for. One, two, three — counted, five — seven. Rejected 98: delete, i.e. not allow to privatize VAT “Severogenetic Research Institute of Chemical Engineering,” colleague Cosemykin suggests. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:38:50]] For-164 Not supported, I'm afraid. The 99th is accounted for. 100th: Cosmetics: Remove the state-owned enterprise: The Agricultural Engineering Institute. Please vote in favour of the offer of Cosmiakin. [[11:39:21]] For a hundred and Not supported. 101-honored is counted. Rejected 102nd: delete ZAT “Ukrainian Research and Research Institute of Meat and Milk Enterprises”. The amendment of Cosemiakin, please vote in favour. [[11:39:51]] For-153 Not supported. 103rd Amendment of Cosmiakin: Remove VAT PPI “Southernmedbioosynthesis”. Please vote in favour. [[11:40:16]] For 148 Not supported. 104th, 105th, 6th, accounted for. Seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, seventeen. Yes, overruled. 120th Amendment of colleague Cosemyakina: Remove from Appendix No.3 of VAT “Ukrainian Research Institute of Paper”. Please vote in favour. [[11:41:03]] For-154 Not supported. 138. Amendment by colleague Cosemykin: Remove the state-owned enterprise “KRKRIDI Metalworking Machinebuilding”. Please vote in favour of the amendment. [[11:41:39]] For-151 Not supported. 139th Collegiate Cosemyakina: Remove the State Enterprise from a separate construction office for rail transport. Please vote. [[11:42:04]] For 148 Not supported. 140th Amendment of colleague Kožemyakina: Remove State Enterprise “State Design Institute of Enrichable Equipment”. We vote in favour of the correction of Cosemiakin. [[11:42:30.]] For-142 141st Amendment of Cosmiakina: Remove State Science and Production Company “Rotor”. Please vote. [[11:42:56]] For-143 Not supported. 142nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th. Deferred amendment to 160 of Cosemykin: remove the number three VAT from Appendix Lviv Research Institute of Faximal Telephony. Please vote. [[11:43:38]] For 133 Not supported. 161-year-old colleague Cosemykina: remove the Scientific Research Institute of Radioelectronic Medical Equipment. Please vote. [[11:44:01]] For-144 Not supported. 162nd Collegiate Cosmiakina: delete the P.D.A.P.K. "Polyron". Please vote. [[11:44:24]] For 128 Not supported. 163 colleagues of Cosmetics: Remove VAT Research Institute of Electromechanical Devices. Please vote. [[11:44:47]] For 135 Not supported. 164th Collegiate Cosemyakina: Remove the rental enterprise of Kharkiv Research Institute of Machinebuilding Technology. Please vote. [[11:45:11]] For-137 Not supported. 166th. Kožemjakin, a colleague, proposes to remove the Ukrainian National Research Institute for Design Materials, Prometheus. Please vote. [[11:45:39]] For-129 170th, Cosmackin. Remove from Appendix three VAT Scientific and Technical Center “Sustoria”. Please vote. [[11:46:04]] For 124 Not supported. 173th. Cosmiakin proposes to remove the state-owned enterprise The Elmis Special Design Office. Please vote. [[11:46:29]] For 133 175th, Cosmackin. Remove the ATZT “Indar”. Please vote. [[11:46:53]] For 133 Comrade Cosemiakin, 176th. Remove the VAT Borislavský NDI “Synthesis” with the research plant. Please vote. [[11:47:16]] For a hundred and Not supported. In the 180th, a colleague of Kožemjakin proposes to remove the VAT “Ferment”. Please vote. [[11:47:37]] For-127 Not supported. Thus, dear colleagues, we passed all the amendments, voted all the articles. I can see the hands. Please log in from the factions. Before voting a minute from the factions. Yes, please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u108	Valerius Pisarenko. Please pass on the word to Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u109	A leather jacket, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you again to put to the vote, the vote on Amendment No.26, which was tabled by the PLA on the inclusion in the VAT list of the Odessa Portal Plant. Why? Because repeatedly since 99, the Ukrainian Security Service has informed the President of Ukraine and not only the President, but also the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That it's an enterprise that the privatisation of the Odessa Port Authority may have negative consequences, and I would like to ask you again to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u111	Pink, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u112	Please give the word to the Deputy Bondar of the faction “Our Ukraine” please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u113	Alexander Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u114	Alexander Bondar, “Cobor” SRP, “Our Ukraine” faction. I want to confirm once again, the vote on this has shown that we don't need this list, the objects that are privatized. It is enough for Parliament to approve a list that is not to be privatized. In order to resolve the issue next year, the budget, 10 billion, I propose to the government and have now approached Vice-Prime Minister Clovis, to pass a separate law on removals from the list of objects which are forbidden to privatize by the Skretelek and Odessa portable, and to decide on their privatisation. That's it. And "Silverman" sells 93%, completely at an open auction with no restrictions, except for an industrial investor. And let's stop this game in a list that doesn't give us anything except to involve us in processes that belong to the government and the Anti-Crist Coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u115	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u116	I'm a self-sacrifice. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yes, we always are. I don't know why we should be wasting our time. But I want to say something else. That's terrible! See what subjects are now being privatized? Are those in need of investment or investment? No, of course not. Those who can be taken away and live in peace. I would like to propose, after all, our joint proposal to remove the Dnipro Hotel from the privatisation lists. This is the only tourist object left in the tourist industry, by the way. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I don't understand why you're silent, but I'd like to come back and shut this thing down. We expressed our point of view when we first considered the issue, but it was not even reflected in the comments. Mikhail Vasilovich, we must agree, and we must vote and leave this object to state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u117	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you to come back to the consideration of article six of this law. Because Mikhail Vasilovich clearly explained the need to adopt this very article of the law. There it is possible to privatize objects along with the earth, and this is an extremely principled thing. Because we're taking down the problem with those owners who are already going to have ownership rights. And that principle, I would say, is a revolutionary article that will help new owners to work, and there will be additional revenue in the budget, because the land will also be included in the value of this object. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u119	Sergey Redfoot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u120	I give the word to Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u121	Matvienkov, please. Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u122	Thank you, Sergei Vasilevich. Dear colleagues! I would like to support our colleague Miroshnichenko, who has just asked that we should return to article six. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put her to the vote again. Why? Because today we have a negative practice where privatization often comes from some facilities that are in the territory of the more “attractive” land, as they say. When the land is tens of thousands of times larger than that plot or that, if you'll excuse the expression, the sari that is being sold. In order to balance this system today, to streamline the system of sales, to balance property mechanisms, property ownership and land, I propose that we return to article 6 and vote on it, at least as suggested by the Committee, to find a compromise. And we are prepared to reject our drafts and vote in the form of a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the factions have spoken. Be careful, we will now be determined on every proposal. Kožemjakin's proposal is to return to the 26th amendment and remove objects that are subject to the right of privatization of the Odeski Příportní plant. Who, in order to return to this vote, please vote? Vote. [[11:54:06]] For a hundred and Not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 107, “Our Ukraine” – 14, Socialists – 6, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 2. Please, who in favour of supporting Catherine Samolik's offer for the Dnipro Hotel, leave it to the state, please vote? [[11:54:49]] For three hundred Copy that. And on the subject of Miroshnichenko and Matvienkov, article 6. Who's to go back to voting on the 6th article, please vote? [[11:55:17]] For 341 We're back. Who's in favour of accepting Article 6 as a committee editor, please vote. [[11:55:39]] For 243 Copy that. So, dear fellows, we've taken all that we could count into account. I look forward to the adoption throughout the Law on the List of Property Rights Subjects under Privatization in 2007. Registration number 2550. [[11:56:12]] For 226 Copy that. Factions: Region Party 186, Yulia Timoshenko Block 5, Our Ukraine 2, Socialist Party 29, Communist 0, non-fractional 4. Dear colleagues, if it's your will, perhaps let's adopt the Bill of Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 2082. [[concerning the registration of means of transport]] It's a Soviet law. No, I'm good. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u124	We'll continue the meeting. Dear colleagues, since I have already announced before the break, let's take a quick look at the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the registration of means of transport]] It's a Soviet law, 2082, and then we'll go to the budget. Please, you're celebrating the rostrum. Be easy, let's save time, Dmitri. There are no two revisions. The unaccounted - for amendment of Part Four of Lukyanchuk. Are you insisting on her vote? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment in view of the fact that it will allow the purchase of cars by ordinary citizens who can afford to purchase only second-hand cars, that is, those that have already been used. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u126	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u127	The committee does not support this amendment because, unfortunately, it is contrary to the WTO requirements, since a colleague proposes to pay this tax only for a car over eight years of age. So this is the direct limitation of the WTO and this is how the committee decided not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u128	I put to the vote amendment number four of my fellow national MP, Lukyanchuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:22]] For-64 Not supported. And another rejected amendment, number two, of the national MP Seminoga. He doesn't insist. All the other amendments are included, all the other amendments are included, I'm voting for acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u129	The law is made urgent by the President. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u130	A word about what, huh? There is no vote. None. I repeat, if you scream, you will be escorted out of the session room. You can do whatever you want, it's yours. I repeat, I'm not misleading anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u131	Give me your word!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u132	If you turn to the leadership of your faction that it insists on the word and conveys it to you, you will receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u133	He's turning!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u134	One minute, please. And read the Rules, and you are the Rules Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u136	I gave the word not to you, but to Lyushka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I'm reading the Rules and I recommend you. I would like to point out to Ukrainian citizens that when Martinyuk says the Soviet bill is misleading, he is misleading. In fact, it's a lobbyist bill and an author who reports it lobbies the interests of companies at the expense of millions of Ukrainian citizens who will pay for higher transport assemblies and so on. That is why I urge Parliament not to vote in favour of this bill! Like you to those people who can't raise money for a new car, you're going to look into the eyes, all those people with disabilities, retirees and other people with little protection. And it's a shame, Adam Ivanovich, that for the sake of the oligarchs you're carrying out similar bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you and the colleagues I've spoken to, I'm not stretching anything, because you're voting, not me. Although I'm completely supportive of what you've been saying about this bill. And third, most importantly, this project refers to a list of Soviet laws. I am voting on the adoption of the Act as a whole to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the registration of means of transport]] Registration number 2082.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u139	The committee's asking for support. [[12:35:07]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u140	232. Decision taken. Thank you. Please sit down. I repeat, consult with Sass. There's no such thing as motive, there's no motive, there's no motive. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007, registration number 2000. [[second reading]] Be careful, I'll suggest, I'll inform you how we're going to deal with this. We will hear a report from the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Finance, 20 minutes. 10 minutes is the answer to the questions. Then the report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs is 10 minutes. Five minutes -- answers to questions. And then, in accordance with article 43 of the Budget Code and article 153 of the Rules, let's move on to an article vote on the budget. To an article vote on the budget. But before that, in accordance with Rule 153 of this article, if necessary, they have the right to represent each faction. I think we'll take five minutes. So let's get a look at the factions that want to participate in the discussion. From factions. All right, we're on. So 25 minutes later, we'll have a discussion. Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov, 20 minutes. Please. While Mikola Janović is coming, come on, there's another offer. I would like to put to the vote the proposal to work today until this issue is concluded, please vote on this proposal. No, we're going to call it a day, but we're going to finish today. [[12:37:29]] For 240 Copy that. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers submits to the second reading a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act. His work took into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, the mandate of the President of Ukraine, the appeal of the national deputies. In addition, extensive consultations were held with scientists, experts, and the public. What are the challenges facing the 2007 budget? First. Strengthen the social protection of our citizens and maximize the cost of housing services. It's different. Eliminating imbalances in local and State budgets, strengthening the budgetary function of the State in health, education, and social protection. Third. Create conditions for intensive economic development, restore innovation and investment growth. First, the cost of the imported gas. What is the root of the problem? In 2004, the government of Yanukovic had a contract for the supply of gas at $45 per thousand cubic metres for five years. In March 2005, the government of Timoshenko refused to do so. Moreover, knowing that gas costs would increase next year, no compensatory measures were envisaged for the population in the budget. And it should have been predicted, since January 1, 2006, the cost of gas has increased 2.1 times. Ukraine’s economy consumes more than 76 billion cubic metres of gas a year, of which 34 billion are the population, the communal sphere. So we had to predict at least 5 billion dollars. At the disposal of 24 billion from the sale of “Criminals”, there were absolutely no compensatory measures available to the population. And this is in terms of rising tariffs for gas, electricity and residential services almost three times compared to 2004. As the budget progressed towards second reading, the government set itself the task of protecting the population as far as possible from these shocking decisions of the predecessors. In 2007, there was a two-day state subsidy on the provision of these services. First, with the aim of lowering the price of gas for municipal heating 2.6 billion. [[on the slide you can see]] will seek to compensate for the difference between the prices for the purchase and implementation of imported natural gas by the undertaking. Secondly, through the aid and housing grant mechanism to the population for electricity, natural gas and residential services, the total amount of subsidies to local budgets for this purpose has been increased by almost one and a half times — by 1 billion.602 million. That's right. In the following year, families that are made up of only pensioners and disabled persons will pay no more than 15 percent of their total income for residential services. The difference will be paid by the state. This will affect nearly 60 percent of today’s grant recipients. Other categories of recipients will pay no more than 20 percent of their total income. Thirdly, a decision has been taken by the government to simplify the system of granting the subsidies. The number of help citizens have to submit to the Social Protection Authority is decreasing. From the list of documents is excluded the reference to persons registered in residences, accounting books, receipts for actual payment of housing and utility services. This information will be obtained by the labour and social protection agencies themselves in residential and other businesses. Fourthly, a decision has been made at the government meeting today on restructuring since December 1st debt for residential services. Fifthly, the government has considered in detail on the basis of local authorities' decisions to increase housing tariffs. Where they are not justified, we will bring them into line. The government has also taken steps to raise the level of pay. Since December 1, the minimum wage has been raised. For example, a family of 2 employees who have recently received a salary of 1,400 dollars and who have paid 150 dollars for community services will receive 1,600 dollars for today and will pay 300 dollars for it. In fact, family income exceeded the level of housing - utility prices. Together with the Committee on Budgets, we carried out a detailed work on balancing regional budgets. When the draft law was finalized, the financial resources of the local budgets increased by more than 4 billion dollars on second reading. In addition, 2.2 billion in social subsidies, 1.2 billion in investment development regions, 335.8 million in wages, 500 million in energy bills. The weight of the local general budget fund in Ukraine’s consolidated budget increased by about 5 percent compared to 2005. Addressed by the President of Ukraine's proposal to reduce the grantability of local budgets, improve inter-budget relations. Changes have been made to the form of the allocation of inter-budget transfers, between the State Budget and the local budgets, in the part of the maintenance budget. In order to increase the interest of local budgets in increasing the income base, the additional financial resources increased by 54 percent, or 423,6 million, to 1 billion and 200 million dollars. The amount of funds transferred from local budgets to the State budget has decreased by 327 million dollars. The calculation of local budget expenditure included in the determination of inter-budget transfers has been improved. In addition to the second reading of 500 million dollars, the total amount of subsidies has been increased to provide assistance to families with children, underprivileged persons, disabled children and temporary state aid to children. In general, this increase is about five billion dollars compared to 2006. The increased investment component of local budgets, increased social and economic development by 517 million, the transfer of housing funds and socio-cultural objects of the Ministry to municipal property -- 55 million dollars, the construction of the metropolis -- 100 million dollars, to other subsidies related to socio-economic development -- 443 million. State support for housing and utilities has been strengthened. For the first time, the budget next year allocates not only for the current expenditure of the sector but for its reform. In addition, two new budget programmes have been introduced for the second reading: capital repairs and upgrading of the housing fund's elevators, repairs and reconstruction of the heat grids and boilers -- a total of half a billion dollars. I would like to draw the attention of our critics to the fact that the revised 2007 budget further strengthens the social component. Social spending has been increased compared to first reading by 4.2 billion dollars, including social protection and social security -- 2.3 billion dollars, health care -- by one billion, education by 510 million, spiritual and physical development by 388 million. Thus, social spending exceeds the 2006 target of 14 billion dollars. The budget excludes restrictive norms that have not found support in society and among the MPs. This refers to the limitation of the right to receive state social assistance, the payment of pensions to working pensioners at the age, the regression payments, the number of days of temporary incapacity to be paid. Pay it off and stuff. Health expenses for second reading have increased by about one billion dollars. Thus, compared to 2006, the increase is 23%. The emphasis is on the acquisition of modern medical equipment and modern medical technology. For the first time in the budget, there's the cost of creating one. The first one in Ukraine is a center for using a five-tech tomography to detect cancer early, 228 million dollars to implement gamma-lower technology to strengthen the material base of the leading cardio-surgery centers. 50 million dollars is allocated for the purchase of modern rehabilitation complexes. Each district prenatal center, a district specialized maternity home, will be provided with incubators of intensive therapy, breathing aids, resuscitation modules, and other baby - bearing equipment. For the first time, the funds for a centralized purchase of medical supplies for patients with multiple sclerosis are provided. More than 2.5 times that amount has been increased against the amounts included in the first reading, the cost of prevention and treatment. Ukraine does not have any plasma processing plant. For the first time, the State has allocated the necessary funds to build a factory that we do not have today. Additional spending on education is primarily, compared to first reading, aimed at building educational units, dormitories of higher education institutions, developing a material and technical base of educational institutions, fostering child feeding. When the Ukrainian State Budget project was finalized for 2007, the second reading of cultural and artistic development expenditure was increased by 134.8 million bracelets. You can see it on the slide. Before the second reading, $126.6 million has been added to the cost of physical culture and sports. The general fund's spending on science and science and technology has been increased compared to the first reading of 135 million dollars and is now worth over 3 billion dollars. Compared to 2004, these expenses increased by twofold. These funds include scientific projects in 2007 to develop technology and equipment for environmentally sound treatment of hazardous wastes from plasma and other high-energy sources of energy, comprehensive marine exploration of promising oil and gas-gas structures, and mapping the distribution of gas-hydrates in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas, and a number of other important directions. The third challenge is about economic growth. We're not getting any economic growth from the increase in trade volumes that we have in the current year. We need to create conditions to upgrade the core funds, modernize production, develop energy-saving technologies. Our lives depend on it. The 2007 draft budget, which was finalized in the second reading, preserved the priority of restoring the innovation and investment model of the economy. We are confident that we need to move, not by increasing fiscal pressure as practiced by previous governments, but by creating conditions for accelerated economic growth, particularly by increasing the attractiveness of lending to the economy through a credit-sending mechanism. This allows a significant expansion of the resource base that can be involved in their innovation and investment development. The total amount of government spending on loans amounts to 1.8 billion dollars, including 667 million dollars, will be earmarked for the cost of loans to agribusiness enterprises, 145.5 million dollars, for the financial support of innovation and investment projects, primarily through the introduction of advanced technologies. We're paying a lot of attention to the development of electricity -- 652 million dollars we're going to spend on loans to build power cells for nuclear hydrochargers and other power plants, which will allow 3 billion 190 million dollars to be used in the reconstruction of power plants. More than 724 million dollars are allocated to support the aviation and space industries, which will enable them to attract 1 billion 524 million dollars in credit support. The implementation of these budgetary programmes will allow the state budget to raise more than 9 billion credits. Special attention is paid to the development of transport industries. The financing of the second-reading transport sector is further taken into account: 150 million dollars for the construction of the Borispil International Airport Passenger Centre, 100 million dollars for the construction and development of subway networks, 30 million dollars for the construction of a dam under the Danube Black Sea Canal project and other directions. The 2007 draft State Budget Act takes into account the Supreme Council's decision to retain the next year's tax regime on value added taxes for farmers. Standards for the introduction of a special VAT regime at 12 percent have been removed. To carry out the Supreme Council’s commission, there is an article on directing tax amounts to added value in the form of a government grant to agricultural producers. Budget conclusions and proposals by national deputies for the preservation of existing forms of State support for the development of grapes, gardening and hops. A program of state-owned credit for individual rural builders has been restored. At the suggestion of the Minagropolitics, new budget programmes have been introduced in the revised budget. A program of State support for rural enterprises, which is in particularly difficult climate conditions, has also been restored. Taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the government in furthering the State Budget project, the second reading of the expenditure of the force structures increased by $1 billion,194 million. Of these, 312 million are for the development, purchase, modernization, weapons and military technology; 105 million are for the formation and development of the Armed Forces. When the State Budget project was finalized for 2007 until the second reading of the maintenance costs of the judiciary, it increased by 94 million. Thus, after reprocessing to second reading, the main parameters of the State Budget are the following. The budget is drawn up. Income is about 180 billion, that's plus the first reading of 8 billion. Thus, the second reading offers 187.4 billion dollars of the budget. State budget plus 7.8 billion, 144 billion income on second reading. The volume of income has also increased, and the main factors that allowed for a review of income projections have been the changes to tax legislation that the constructive interaction of the government and the national MPs has led to the adoption by the end of November. An improved budget implementation situation for the current year compared to 2005 in November. More than 4 billion dollars, the determination of the price of imported natural gas, was taxed at an added value of 1.8 billion, the income tax of 1.7 billion, the excise collection of 0.3 billion and other sources. Budget expenditure. First reading, 196 billion, 8 billion, so the second reading, 204.5 billion. Under the State budget, the cost of first reading is 119 billion plus.8 billion, 122.8 billion. So next year's budget is aimed at social protection, reforming the sector and improving support for the state's economic development. Please support the draft law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u142	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, 10 minutes. Bubba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Kunchenk, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u144	Dear Nikolai Janović, Kunchenko, Socialist faction. I respect you as a highly professional professional, and I'm sure you'll find the right solution to the question. How will the chemical industries of Ukraine work, and six for which gas is a technological commodity in 2007? I think that there are all the calculations in the Ministry of Finance, none of these enterprises have a positive cost at the price of gas in 2007. Today, all the proposals that have been budgeted and those that have been made have gone to the last meeting of Andrei Petrovich Kluev on the price of gas no one wants to hear. Why is 11 per cent profitable in the Krukgazenergo SP and 6 enterprises in the chemistry industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u145	Thank you for asking. This problem is well known to the Government and we will certainly do our best to make chemical industry profitable in 2007. There are various proposals, including proposals for the cost of fertilizers already included in this budget, which is essentially a direct grant to chemical industries producing fertilizers. We will consider abolishing the two per cent allowance, and consider other issues related to the pricing of gas for chemical industries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u146	Please, Pacheek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u147	Pacheuk, please pass on the word of Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u148	Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u149	Pecklusenko, Party of Regions, “Regions” faction, Zaporozje. Dear Nikolai Janovich! First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers, personally Kopilov and Tatiana Ivanovna Efimenko for their very productive work with the Committee on Budgets. Many of the issues raised by the Budget Committee have been taken into account, particularly on local councils. I thank you for that 4.1 billion, for reducing the elimination. But together with this, questions are also raised at our meeting with the Association of Cities, the main question being the interest of the regions. We need to decentralize the motivations for the regions to earn their own money and not ask them in Kiev. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u150	Thank you for asking. In the 2007 budget, the position of interest in local budgets has been increased several times and amounts to 1 billion. Two hundred million. I don't know exactly what to say right now, but 1 billion. 200 with more than a million. And we are planning this, compared to last year, only $400 million, i.e. the interest of local budgets in increasing their income has tripled. This position will continue, we have increased by 5% in the consolidated budget, the proportion of local budgets, that is a huge percentage. We carried out this policy in 2003-2004, we went 44 per cent in 2004 and then Timoshenko fell to almost 39 per cent, we are now back to 45 per cent, the proportion of local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u151	Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u152	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear Mikolo Janovich, today is the Ukrainian Armed Forces Day and we should welcome the Armed Forces, but here's the draft of our budget, I think it's a powerful blow to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In fact, you did not take into account the Supreme Council’s ruling on protected articles relating to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The other one. You know, among professionals, the notion of "air" is that that billion you're issuing from a special fund is air that won't be implemented. Unfortunately, this fund is precisely about a very difficult problem of social protection -- housing construction, it's not going to be done. You think, after all, working for the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would recommend that you vote in favour of Ukraine's 2007 public budget, which greatly increases the costs of the Ministry of Defence, including the article “Social Protection of Military Personnel”. And if you vote against the budget, here's your real position: you're in favour, and in fact you're in favor. That's why I congratulated the Minister of Defence today, but I didn't have the opportunity yesterday, because I was here at a meeting in the Supreme Council, and I congratulated you on your 15th anniversary. And he said that the Government would do everything to ensure that our Armed Forces did not need and develop properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u154	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u155	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Mikola Janović, of course, has quite a lot of spending on socio-economic development. But I couldn't solve the question on the budget committee yesterday, please. 701 million for energy saving and gasification, just 101 million dollars for gasification versus 500 million this year? Are we going to fold the gasification programs in Ukraine? The other one. You're the curator of the Ivano-Frankow district, and I saw colleagues in the Zaporozhye area beat up money in your government for Novogoddanevka yesterday. Believe me, this year and last year, there were natural disasters in the Ivano-Frankow region, floods on a scale of destruction no less than those that took place there. You haven't been in the area in a while. See what happened? You have the opportunity to restore this program at least 25 millionths of what you need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u156	Thank you for asking. First. We do not exclude any gasification programmes, or increase energy saving programmes, from the country's efficient use of gas, both by the population and industry and by the community. It is an extremely important programme, and we hope that we will be able to reduce gas costs significantly. As for my curatorship in Ivano-Frankov district, I am hearing it for the first time from you and, in general, based on the Crimea. But given your offer, I will accept it and take charge of Ivano-Frankov region and consider all the issues that have arisen there. I know about natural disasters. The Government has decided from the contingency fund to provide very substantial funds and all will be listed in the Ivano-Frankov region by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u157	Ivan Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u158	Dear Mikola Janovich, I'd like to ask you two short questions. Don't you think we should go in principle and get to the approval of the socio-economic development programme first, and then move on to budgeting. Because somehow, as far as I'm concerned, we're underestimating the ability to form the revenue part of the budget, and we're focusing mainly on its spending portion. And the second. Why is it not taken into account the insistence of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on the step-by-step implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children? Again, what is proposed is essentially a refusal to comply with the Law. Because we've delayed the introduction of these norms last year, and now we're proposing to postpone the implementation of the Act on Protection of Children of War, or to put into effect the rules of the Law on the Protection of Children of War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. I do not believe that the social and economic development programme should necessarily precede the budget. Because I believe that the country's social and economic development programme should not be considered for a year but should be considered for a larger period of time, let us say four to five years. Since many of the programmes that are part of this large programme simply cannot be implemented within one budget year. The budget should therefore, and the budget, in accordance with legislation, should be established for one year. So we need to reconcile the annual budget with that global serious programme for several years. So, as far as your second question is concerned. This year's budget is a compromise, including with your faction, we have taken your proposals into account and have come up with a mutually acceptable compromise on the implementation of this law. Next year, I think it'll be easier, we'll move on. This year is very difficult 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u160	Yes. Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat, please. A word from the committee, a report from the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Vladimir MacKeenko, please, 10 minutes. It is right that there should be no influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u161	Yeah, that's right. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable members of the government, national deputies! Today we are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2007 which has been finalized in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 31 October 2006 on the approval of conclusions and proposals for the draft Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2007. I immediately want to refute the statements made by some of the people's deputies this morning regarding the violation of the procedure for considering this bill in the Committee on Budgets. Our committee at its meeting on December 4-5 was considering a bill tabled by the government. 25 national deputies, members of the committee, were registered. In favour of the final decision of the committee, 17 national deputies, 16 of whom supported the draft decision, one abstained. As a result of the development of the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, most of Ukraine's proposals and tasks are taken into account by the government in the draft State Budget Act 2007. Yes, according to the proposals of the National Deputies and the request of the President of Ukraine, the draft State Budget Act 2007 has been deleted into a separate bill of tax rules, which the Supreme Council has already voted twice, including taking into account all the President's proposals. But today this bill has not yet been signed by the President. And this is extremely important for filling out the budget document. In addition, the draft State Budget Act removes standards for privatization facilities for the following year. And that, I think, is over 10 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the The Law on the Assigned List of Privatization Objects for 2007 has now been adopted by the Supreme Council. The requirements for granting State guarantees are taken into account only by the law of Ukraine, the settlement of pensions for seconded military personnel, including abroad, the removal of the payment limit for the birth of a child, and the exclusion of the average monthly total income of a family that grants the right to receive State aid. In addition, individual articles are supplemented by the agreement with the Committee on Government Budget Decisions on Redistribution of Funds between Budget Programmes, and the order of operations is brief. the nature in the market of securities and the placing of budgetary costs on deposits on the basis of the temporary inclusion of the costs of a single treasury account, the determination of the number of objects and the extent to which the budget is allocated to the construction and reconstruction of road roads for the general use of State importance, the allocation and use of subsidies to encourage the development of regions, the distribution and distribution of subsidies from the general scope of subsidies to the payment of State social assistance to children orphans and children deprived of parental care, the provision of money to parents and foster parents for the provision of social services to children in family buildings and the treatment of natural family allowances for the use of economic and budgetary support, the determination of the arrangements for the implementation of budget estimates under the terms of the budget The preservation of the historic forgetfulness of historic and cultural heritage cities, the order of the historic cities of Ukraine. Please note the number of positions I have listed above. This will ensure parliamentary control over the use of budgetary resources. Worked on the second reading in the 2007 draft budget, the projected revenue of the budget is over 187 billion dollars, including around 149 billion dollars in the total fund, after a special - 38 billion dollars. When the draft budget was finalized, the budget conclusions were taken into account to increase the income of the budget by a total of around 470 million dollars, including rents for whole property complexes and other state assets, by 20 million, credit operations and guarantees, by 20 million dollars. The draft budget has contributed to an increase of 8 billion dollars, including the State budget -- almost 4 billion dollars, and local budgets -- over 4 billion dollars. The draft budget takes into account the position of our findings on the change in expenditure, such as the increase in the total amount of subsidies for the provision of benefits and subsidies to the population for housing and utilities and the purchase of solid crematedgas fuel by 1.6 billion dollars. To provide government assistance to families with children who are underprivileged, disabled from childhood, for 500 million dollars. The cost of building a plasma - processing plant is 10 million dollars. Construction and development of 300 million bracelets of metropolises Expenditure on passports for Ukrainian citizens 50 million dollars Expenses for the transfer of housing funds and socio-cultural objects to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for municipal property of 170 million dollars. Worked on in the 2207 draft budget to be considered in the second reading significantly increased expenditures for health care. In particular, the amount of capital expenditure has been increased by more than 36 million in total by the principal cost manager for repairs. That's right. In addition, the construction of higher education units and dormitories at level three and fourth levels is worth 120 million. Physical culture and sports have increased by 130 million. For scientific and scientific and technical activities at 104 million In order to ensure reliable safety in the development of the road transport complex, the housing and utility complex has for the first time been provided with capital repair costs, the upgrading of the 200 million elevators, the improvement of the quality of the heating services of 300 million, and the cost of the purchase of passenger cars is estimated at 80 million. a bracelet that will buy 150 new passenger cars. In the context of the Danube Black Sea project, the building of a dam has been carried out by 74 million people. That's right. The draft Law provides expenditure of the State budget for the coal sector with 5.2 billion dollars. That's right. Compared to the first reading, environmental expenditure has increased by 244 million. Infants, with significant increases in the cost of forest protection and reforestation. With the aim of increasing the investment component of local budgets and addressing regional problems, the number of other state budget subsidies has increased by 518 million, including socio-economic development. a sum of 900 million dollars. That's right. For other subsidies 443 million That's right. In particular, an additional 400 million are being directed to public support for the production of plant and animal production and to financial lysis operations in rural agriculture. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, there have been calls for the President's veto to be imposed on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget Act. The committee contains materials, letters from the President of Ukraine, in which the President proposes to take into account such issues as the creation of a cultural and museum complex called the "Mistachio Arsenal", the implementation of the State Programme "Golden Podkova Cerkaszczina", the restoration of the architecture of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve "The Gethtman Capital", the purchase of a high-tech apparatus "Gamma Lower", the provision of high-value medical treatment for patients with multiple sclerosis, the construction of a factory with plasma processing. All of these proposals are taken into account. I'm asking for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u162	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u163	Honourable National Deputies, on the basis that the Committee on Budget Issues proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 as a second reading and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals set out in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision 2000 2 4 issued to you. In addition to the transcript, add the following to the draft Decree by article 55 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2007: “In the case of untimely calculations of the population of thermal energy enterprises and budgetary institutions and organizations that are held at the expense of local budgets for the natural gas consumed, the calculation is based on the corresponding local budget outstanding monthly amount of subsidies. The General Fund of the State Budget is carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” Dear National Deputies! Dear Victor Andryovich, if you can hear me! A few days later, at the end of December, you will receive a New Year’s welcome to the Ukrainian people with a desire for health, well - being, and well - being. But all of this can only be a reality for Ukrainian citizens in 2007 thanks to the adoption of Ukraine's State Budget by the Supreme Council and the signing by the President of Ukraine. So let me ask you, Mr. President, to you, my honourable colleagues, to support the draft budget for 2007 and to vote on it in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u164	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Please, just a minute. Zybenko. Five minutes, Cibenko Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u165	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u166	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to clarify whether, following yesterday's debates on support, real support for the agro-industry complex, livestock and vegetation, as well as support for the purchase of agricultural products, 100 million and 300 million to support livestock and plant production? And the second part of my question. Please tell me, do we have a rule in those tax changes that are separate from our law, with regard to group 1.24 for which we exclude the use of import duties and the value added tax on these goods regardless of the purpose of their importation? That is, group 1.24, which was the subject of a serious dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u167	Thank you for asking, Peter Mikolaiovich. As for the second point. We've already passed all these bills into a separate law. The president hasn't signed for today. As for support, yes, an estimated 400 million, of which 100 million go to animal farming, 300. I counted the committee, we worked late last night, counted the committee. And that's in the conclusions of our draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u168	Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u169	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovic, 120 million have been set up to support higher education institutions. Please tell me, in this list, 50 percent is allocated to four higher education institutions and 50 percent to all others, is there any way to settle this issue? Is it time for the Ministry to direct them, to whom, how much, and how much to issue? And the second question. I read the government’s financial discipline meeting material. There are terrible facts. A team of “loving friends ” stole more than nine billion in six months. Will this be repeated in terms of the new budget, or will we be able to break these criminal, thieving schemes? Will we be able to control the future budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u170	Honorable colleague of Bagachuk's, in terms of execution control, the use of state funds. The draft Law 2007 provides for parliamentary control. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, you have participated and you have seen the extent to which the bill establishes control rules for the use of budgetary resources. As for the use of 120 million dollars by the Ministry of Education, I'll tell you that under the Budget Code, we have the right to redistribute these funds. You're a member of the budget committee, and we can get back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u171	Please, Mikola Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, first of all, I want to protect the president, he's not a lobbyist, he's sent us a letter, and you, in which he clearly requires you to raise the social parameters of the budget, requires the Supreme Council. In particular, he points out that the minimum wage and minimum wage will lead to the fact that most Ukrainian citizens will receive lower incomes in 2007 than in the current year. So I'm asking you a specific question: please tell me why you rejected my proposals, the proposals of the Butian faction offerings of communists, the proposals of socialists to radically increase the minimum wage? This is about article 81. Next thing you know, why do you only expect 15 dollars to increase your living minimum? Don't you know that these parameters were set six years ago and now they don't exactly match reality?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u173	Thank you, Reverend Mikola Ivanovich, for asking you. Just two weeks ago, in this room, you and I accepted changes and additions to the 2006 draft budget. And you know why, not from a good life. We will be happy to consider all the amendments made by national deputies that cost about 80 billion dollars, but after we have that money. Now to make the budget unbalanced, we don't have the right. As for the President's proposals, they did come three times. I counted my reports, the proposals that came to the budget committee earlier, and we all counted them. With regard to the latest proposals, Mr. Schlapak was represented at the committee meeting by the Secretary of the President's Office. He was present yesterday, the other night, reporting all the President's proposals. To that end, he created all the conditions. But the price of the questions you're talking about is 5.5 billion dollars. I'm asking you a question: where do you get them today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u174	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We agreed, more faithfully, that this is the rule of the Rules that after the statements of the finance minister and the head of the faction committee, the factions will be able to participate in the discussion of the information being heard in five minutes. Please, Baranowski from the Socialist factions. Prepare the Kaletnik of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u175	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government! Today we are looking at the main document of the year, the 2007 budget. And how responsible we have been in previous times to prepare it together with the government, how responsible we will consider it today and vote, depending on how our society will live in the coming year. We understand with you that there are no limits to the perfection of any process. 3.5 thousand amendments have been made by national deputies to this document, a significant number of which have been duly counted. Some of them, of course, did not find their reflection in the document, since neither the Budget Code nor the substance of the budgetary process itself corresponded to it. Which I would like to point out is positive in this document. If you read first and second readings, you have heard today that 8 billion have increased the income and so much has increased the cost. This suggests that during the period, from first to second reading, the government, the Committee on Budgets worked hard enough to find additional income reserves to better fund a sector. We also have to point out that during this period we did find an opportunity to cancel the VAT on the village that was installed was predicted to be 12 percent. A corresponding grant for the village has been increased, as already discussed in the answers to questions. Borrowing loans, an article for the village, say, about 800 million dollars and lysing -- 200 million, which will enable a lot of new technology to be involved. One of the negatives about financing agriculture, and I think we should look at it in terms of fractionality, is that the cost of costing the village's loan is projected for privatisation. And privatisation can take place in June, July, it can take place in December, and interest has to be paid on a constant basis. Next. It's increased in this budget, if you take it before last year, a lot of funding for medicine is over 1 billion. More than half a billion is education. The social protection of our population has been increased by 2 billion dollars. Therefore, when critics criticise this budget in terms of being less social than the 2006 budget, I want to say that it does not have any basis. The municipal police will also be funded by the State Budget today to improve the financing of the police personnel, because we know what budgets the local councils are today. We've calmed down a lot of society. This is primarily the case with government officials. When the tax provisions of the budget were provided for the cancellation of certain charges, the benefits and so on. Take these questions off today. And we've calmed society down. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are still a number of issues that are still pending in the 2007 Budget Act. Our faction insisted that the State Property Fund restore him to the position of chief executive. Dear colleagues, the State Property Fund is a structure that is accountable to the Supreme Council, and how can it be accountable to the Supreme Council when it is not the principal of the funds, and for every single piece of money, is addressed to the Ministry of Finance? She becomes subordinate to the Ministry of Finance. This contradicts the Constitution, which contradicts the laws of Ukraine. And we have to take that question into consideration today. Here my colleague raised a question about education when 50 million by 3 VUZ for capital repairs and another 100 by 50. I would like to pay attention to our attitude in the budget toward young people. When, for example, in 2004 loans to young people were provided in the budget, lending is meant for construction, for housing purchases, 124 million dollars. This year we only predict 50 million, or this is the lowest, starting in 1999. A large number of text articles today also need improvement. I hope that when we consider it in an articleistic way, we will take into account our document, our budget, and we will be extremely, so to speak, in good condition. Therefore, I appeal to all the honourable national MPs to be responsibly accountable to this document, to vote on it in a second reading today, and as a law as a whole, so that people in the new year can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u176	Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u177	Thank you. A executioner, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear fellow countrymen, colleagues, revered Adam Ivanovich, revered Mikola Janovich! I want to start by answering a question that most often comes from meetings with citizens and the media. Why is there so much unwarranted criticism in terms of income and expenditure for the 2007 budget before the 2006 budget? I have worked on the budget committee of the previous call and I am working on this call, and therefore, using purely factual materials, I would like to respond that the formulation of the 2007 State Budget project is being carried out in the context of the adoption of the two previous years of populist, pre-election decisions aimed at setting up non-economically sound and financially unsecured expenditure. False fiscal pressure policies have led to a sharp decline in economic growth, a slowdown in national production in 2006, an increase in transport energy tariffs, an increase in labour force, a significant competitive pressure on the internal and external markets. Borrow it yourself, the 2006 budget was adopted at the end of December a few days before the official signing of the 95 - dollar gas price. This component affects the budget of more than 10 billion dollars, but the entire budget in 2006 was signed by the President, despite the fact that all calculations were made on the basis of $50 per gas price. What this has led us to feel now that we are making changes to the 2006 budget law. Yes, much of the articles were just declared in the 2006 budget. You and I have added nearly 300 million to the cost of $8.5,000 for newborn children. 170 million are not enough in the article to help families with children. The debt to miners amounted to 160 million wages. Already in July of the month before the new government was formed, the deputy minister of the coal industry on the Committee of Budgets asked to help cover the hidden debt owed to coal miners, and we are resolving these issues without spreading or referring to the fact that this is some very serious negative and the legacy fell on the shoulders of today's government. What is more, in the 2006 budget, the salaries of local self - government officials were only counted until September. Perhaps the analysts, those who thought it would be their victory, thought not only to abolish political reform, but also to cancel the work of local councils as such. So the most important task today is to restore macroeconomic stability, we're laying the foundation for sustained and long-term economic growth. We need to move from an economic development model designed to stimulate consumption, to models to stimulate investment activity, and to develop domestic production from a national resource policy to an economic policy. The logic and priorities of the 2007 budget after the second reading have remained unchanged, this is the stabilization of the country's financial and economic situation, structural reforms and the neutralisation of existing imbalances. In the 2007 draft budget, in fact, as the previous speaker said, social benefits, social security and social security expenditure, health, culture, education, physical culture and sport for 2007 were substantially increased compared to the 2006 figures. Using the political and economic estimates and figures laid down in these two budgets. I'd like to say, for example, just for the social component, this has increased the cost of disabled people by more than 70 percent. Budget conclusions are taken into account and are taken into account in the President's letters. Thus, the Party of Regions consistently implements the programme's pre-election promises to our hardworking and well-respected people to ensure that budget policy is as transparent as possible. I propose to adopt the draft budget in the second, third and, in general, as a law. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u178	Thank you, Georgi Mikolaiovich. Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the word. He'll be followed by the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u179	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. The budget is complex and we, the communists, are certainly not satisfied with the perspective of Ukraine's development, the interests of people and the State. Why? For all budget lines, apart from the need for an agro-industry complex, costs are increased and that is true, but we will not meet them primarily because price increases, tariffs are so demanding that this increase in budget funding is lagging behind real needs, that is where the root of the problem that concerns us today. Above all, this is the case, of course, with the increase in tariffs. What must be done? Of course, the budget should support the real sector of the economy. And we've analysed in detail on the Agro-industry complex, because that's one third of our population. This is almost 30 per cent of gross domestic product. It is the production of food, raw materials, processing, that is, our security. Why? The people of Ukraine are now eating, five times less meat, 3.7 times less milk, 2.5 times less eggs. [[Dear comrades, in 15 years, what has changed?]] That is, the same metallurgy, miner, and energy, which now consume very much energy, consume several times less calories. That is, practically the support of vegetation and livestock production declined by 1.4 billion. So we've been laying the foundation for 15 years, not only are we dying out, but we're practically forming a generation of dystrophysics. A total of 25 million farms have been allocated to support farming, i.e. 43,000 for each farm, 580 bracelets, as indicated only on wallpapers. Mineral fertilizers require 4.5 million tons, only 400,000 tons are funded in the budget. Do we want cheap gas? And that's where our wealth is being realized. [[And all the fertilizers are now sold abroad.]] A total of 1.5 million grevens have been allocated to the development of the Minprompolitics and 3.4 million have been allocated to support the Institute of Memory. Yes, we have a memory loss because we don't support the manufacturer. Five million are allocated to support the diaspora. This is the diaspora that is blocking the Prime Minister today, is it worth allocating this money to support the diaspora? There is a need to increase the real money support of the farmer for the elements that will yield: livestock, plant production, this is the compensation of interest on credit. This is a natural compensation for technical costs. Where do you save your money? Let's get this over with. This primarily reduces the benefits for Europeans, stops the repairs and purchases of expensive cars. The President's secretariat: 70 million by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the And today, he's become a renegade of those fired by the Supreme Council and the brigades of criminal groups. That's what he's turning into. Next. The funds that are being exported abroad today by various shadow schemes must also be monitored. 7.5 billion. The bracelets of illegally written-off ESAs must be returned. The Zaporozhye Titano-Magnetium combination, I hope the Attorney General's Office is investigating these crimes. Over the past two years, representatives, including those political forces supporting the President, apologized and took away a billion bracelets from the State. That's where we need to look for this money. I appeal to all the representatives of the business who are in the hall: it is up to us to see how our people live. You own specific businesses, you lower the sugar prices, the candy you make, the bread you make, and then you'll be the people's chosen ones. What's to be done? First of all, I propose to the Government of the Anti-Crist Coalition to control the use of each copier, the Court of Auditors should, the Court of Auditors, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is hard to control the payment of salaries for those private enterprises that are in arrears, to appoint a public manager today and, if not, to take these enterprises into public property. Today, we control private business at wage levels. This is true: private business is not controlled today, and 90 per cent of it works there. Now, from the public today, we have to ask him how he pays his salary justly. It is difficult to control the price of essential goods, foodstuffs and medicines, to reduce the tariffs on housing and utilities through VAT removals, and 20 per cent of housing and utility payments. And, of course, dear colleagues, I believe that we must give a special carte blanche to the Government of the anti-crisis coalition to urgently demand the return of timely credits that have been taken during the years of independence, which the country is currently budgeted for. I believe that such practical measures, as well as targeted policies, are for the future. Because this budget is indeed a transitional budget, and I believe that this is how we are going to put order in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u180	Thank you. Alexander Turchinov, BUT faction, prepare for Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, under pressure of opposition, the government had to make some concessions. In particular, they had to return the birth aid imposed by Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, who had to leave pensions to retired pensioners, they had to return some money to the education community. But, dear colleagues, these concessions they made under our pressure still do not save the situation. The budget offered by the adopted government remains antisocial. I'll give you some illustrations, in particular, in 2007 they're actually offering to freeze wages and pensions. At the same time, there's a 3-4 rise in public service tariffs, inflation just unfolded by the government, and next year trends will only get worse, especially with regard to some government figures. Please look at your table and the explanations they gave, the budget revenue, they calculated with 10 percent inflation, although experts say that inflation can be much higher. At the same time, social expenditure is calculated at 6 percent inflation rate. I want to ask Mr. Azarov, who are all these explanations for, who are these numbers for? Next question. You know, here was a representative of the faction of the region and one of the crimes that he left behind to the government of Timoshenko is what I quote during its administration: “The cost of labour has been increased.” Dear colleagues, this is a labor force and its value for you, and for us, it's the wages of our people, it's the level of income of our people. And I would very much ask you not to view our people as a workforce in your businesses. So, honourable colleagues, I want to say the following, the budget is offered to accept a scheme that will allow the government to manage them again manually. I'd like to draw figures on the manipulations that lead to clear lobbyism, lobbyism in this budget. In particular, when the budget is adopted, NAK “Naftobaz” will be a bankruptcy in 2007, a bankruptcy that will be sold out for loans that are also planned in this budget. So Ukraine is going to be deprived of this strategic enterprise. At the same time, it's for communists, for regions, for socialists. At the same time, look at the VAT manipulation. According to these manipulations, Rossukrenerego’s budget will lose more than 10 billion dollars from the activities of UkrGazEnergo. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The question is, why are these gifts? Because this money goes into the pockets of those government officials who are behind the “Rosukrenerego” behind other intermediaries who are parasites to Ukraine's energy market. Next question. There's been a lot of talk about sector finance. 29 percent of the funding of the Cabinet of Ministers is increasing. At the same time, the judiciary is underfunded by 49 percent. So the government is once again proposing to the judiciary at the expense of bribes. It's a disgrace, dear colleagues. Next question. This budget is actually destroying our army. This budget destroys the agro-industrial complex. Just one digit for the illustration. For all rural medicine, look at your chart, 100 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 At the same time, I quote from the budget, but only for the development of the Feofania Garden Park complex, where a special hospital is located, is offered 216 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. I mean, twice as much as all rural medicine! Next question. Once again, it is proposed to close the spending on the increase in the budget deficit. The budget deficit is proposed at 2.6 percent. So again, our descendants are being translated into inability to rule the country. I could say a lot of things, dear colleagues, why our faction will not vote for this budget. But thanks for the regions. I want to say, dear colleagues, the deficit of minimum regional funding of 9 billion. They're offering $4 billion here, they're writing it down. But they're just mutual remedies. The real increase is more than 7 million. I mean, they're lying again, they're reintroducing the Supreme Council and the whole society into deception. So, dear fellows, I propose to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u182	The Zebra Pavlovsky Pavlov, please, the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u183	A respected Ukrainian community, respected colleagues. It was very unpleasant for me to hear the head of a committee who was directly deceiving from the Supreme Council’s rostrum because there was no quorum at yesterday’s meeting of the Budget Committee during the vote. 15 out of 32 represent opposition, 17 coalitions. Of these, Vladimir Yuriovich Pehota is in Poland, Raisa Vasilovna Bogotirova came after the vote. Thus, there was no quorum in the vote and therefore we cannot impose today's decision on the Committee on Budget Affairs. Question number two. I'd like to say that if someone blames the President for lobbying, he's a lobbyist of the Ukrainian people, and when he talks about raising social standards, raising the minimum wage and minimum wage, I'm responsible for that kind of lobbyism. I think some people should apologize to the bums and so on. I mean, if you're talking about bums today, you're in that shithole a long time ago. And woe to those people who just sat next to their colleagues just won't be able to see their own fibers of the soul. When you hear the anti-crisis coalition talk, you want to mention "life has become better, life has become more fun". I think you're going the right way, comrades, because today in that budget that you've presented to the Supreme Council, the social standards that the opposition has talked about enough, the fairly reduced and real wages of the most vulnerable groups, the real income will be much less than this year. We don't take into account their income, if we take the income today, then the budget, the budget, the budget, and enough. At a price of $130 per thousand cubic meters of gas, we increase by a billion revenue from corporate income. Where's that revenue coming from? And so on. I'd like to emphasise, they're talking about housing subsidies today. According to the Association, cities lack eight billion. If we give even five billion, the hole is actually three billion dollars, and we have to understand that clearly. Today, I am surprised that local budgets, redistributions, are said to have been seriously increased. On the one hand, yes, in numbers yes, but you put much more responsibility and funding on local budgets. All medicine today, including the purchase of drugs, goes solely through local budgets and so forth. Thus, this redistribution is not supported by additional financial resources that could survive and develop budgets. I would like to stress today the coalition’s attempt to submerge government and local self - rule. If we look at today, it's a violation of the Constitution, a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Cabin is going to set up government contracts and salaries not only for those who work in local governments but even for utilities that do not come from the state and who are established and have a surplus in their budgets. So it's an attempt to replace, subdue the organs of local self-government and make a clear vertical to “on the ground and then.” I think we've been through this before, and we're definitely not going to let that happen. I would like to emphasize that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been seriously funded. And it's purely politics. Imagine, if today's image, the development of Ukraine's image is 20 million. is transmitted from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Education. This appropriation The currency that was envisaged for the development of diplomatic institutions is now passed on to Minfin, and only the diplomatic institutions in Moscow will develop in Russia. It's like we don't have any diplomatic representations anymore. I would like to emphasize the Institute of National Memory. Of course, it would need to be added as much as two million dollars, since those who do not remember the past do not remember the future. And those who did not vote for the Holocaust, those who hate the Ukrainian people in the past, their own ones, will also hate our future generations. I would like to point out that, dear colleagues, no matter how much you save here for what a good budget it is today, it's antisocial enough and it's understandable to you why raising wages is the cost of labor because you're converting again. You want to turn people into rabbis. But you can't do that. The people have risen from their knees, and they will show themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u184	Yes, respectable colleagues, factions spoke, exchanged thoughts. If we all worked as hard as we did, the pay would be better. I remind you, article 43 of the Budget Code, which says that when considering the budget in the second reading, only the proposals of the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers are voted on. The proposals made by national deputies, committees, factions during the second reading of the budget are not voted on. That's why we're about to enter the Budget Code, as you know. As you may remember, if not, I would like to remind you that we should first vote on the main articles. This article deals with income and expenditure, an article related to budget deficits or deficits, an article related to the minimum wage and an article related to the minimum cost of living. These articles are voted first and then, as it were, the rest of the articles. I suggest you, Your Honor, let's do it this way. Let's work another hour -- until 3:00 -- and then there for an hour, if we don't get there, we'll call it a break, because you and I have decided to work today before the issue is finished. Who's in favour of working now until 15 o'clock without a break, please vote. [[13:53:56]] For 246 Decision taken. Mikola Janović, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Now we're going to vote, first of all, those articles that I'm talking about. So once again, according to the Budget Code, we should now vote on the first, 65th and 81st articles. The first article is about income, expenditure, and deficit. There are changes to the profile committee. Please, does the government agree, Mikola Janović?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u185	The government agrees with the changes in the Budget Committee. And I would like to vote on the first article in the light of the proposal voted on by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u186	Well, the Budget Committee reported. And you have a budget committee decision on your hands, where these figures are set out to increase the state budget's spending, increase the amount of credit from the state budget and increase the state budget deficit's marginal size. Income, income, income. Zoom in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u187	No, the whole article in general, taking into account the rights of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u188	I am voting on the proposal of the Budget Committee for the adoption of the article of the First State Budget Act in the Drafting of the Profit Committee. Please vote. [[13:55:35]] For 247 Article accepted. Now let's move on to the 65th article. 65th article: “The size of living minimum per person per month.” Since January 1st, 492 and so on. There was no change to this article in the committee. I'm voting on the 65th article of the draft law: setting the minimum of living for 2007. Please vote. [[13:56:21]] For 249 Copy that. The minimum wage has been approved. And please, the 81st article that says the minimum wage. Also, there has been no change from the profile committee. I'm voting on the 81st article. Please vote. [[13:56:56]] For 248 A decision has been made. Yes, were there suggestions in general to vote? Impetitive? Yes, consider the second article. In the second article, there were no comments from the profile committee in the second article. I put the second article to the vote. Please vote. [[13:57:36]] For 245 Thank you, copy. There's a third article on the vote that I don't see here, by the way. Where the third article went, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u189	Article three deleted. Then, Adam Ivanovich, and the distinguished people's deputies, we will vote on the articles in the number in which they are now distributed to you in the material, and then we will edit and adjust the numbers of these articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u190	I see. So, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when preparing for the second question, according to some of the articles were excluded, but they did not change the numeration to match anything. Hence, the third article is no longer in second reading, and the fourth article is being voted on. Before the fourth article, the committee had no comments. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:58:48]] For 247 Copy that. The 7th article, there was no committee comment, there was a vote. [[13:59:07]] For 247 Copy that. Article eight, there were no comments from the committee either. Please vote. [[13:59:25]] For 246 Thank you, 246. Article 10, no comments. Please vote. [[13:59:43]] For 248 What's the problem with Kirilchuk? Kirilchuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u191	Adam Ivanovich, you said when the vote began, that the amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers would also be voted on. In the 10th article, a new whole paragraph of fat was highlighted by the Cabinet of Ministers. He wasn't on the committee, he wasn't on the committee, he wasn't on the committee, he wasn't on the first reading. And we don't vote for these things today. And that's 34 times in this budget. The Cabinet of Ministers made their amendments, they didn't look anywhere, and they don't vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u192	Eugene Ivanovich, that's why we put the article that we're voting on. If we voted for it, we voted for it in the paper that lies before you. I can't vote again because we've already voted it out, you know? I put each article separately on the vote. So, of course, it's in the way that you write it. Article 10 chm. That's what you mean. Eugene Ivanovich, 10 pm. What do you mean? Puts to the vote Article 10 Prime. It's in the paper where it's written. She wasn't on the committee. Please vote. Yes, we voted in the tenth. 10 prime. [[14:01:22]] For 246 Copy that. Article 12. There were no comments on the committee. Please vote. [[14:01:44]] For 247 Copy that. The 13th article is also out of the question. Please vote. [[2:02:03]] For 247 Copy that. 14th, no comments. Please vote. [[14:02:20]] For 244 Copy that. The 15th, there were no comments. Please vote. [[2:02:37]] For 247 Copy that. The 16th article, there were no comments. Please vote. [[2:02:55]] For 246 Copy that. 17th, there were no comments. Vote. [[14:03:13]] For 248 Copy that. 18th, there were no comments. Vote. [[14:03:30]] For 247 Copy that. 19th, no notice. Vote. [[14:03:46]] For 246 Copy that. 20th, no notice. Vote. [[14:04:03]] For 248 Thank you. Twenty-first. No notice. Vote. [[14:04:20]] For 248 Twenty-two. No notice. Vote. [[14:04:37]] For 249 Copy that. Twenty-third. No notice. Vote. [[14:04:56]] For 249 Copy that. Twenty-fourth. No notice. Vote. [[14:05:16]] For 248 Copy that. Twenty-five. No notice. Vote. [[14:05:34]] For 247 Copy that. Twenty-six. No notice. Vote. [[2:05:52]] For 245 Copy that. Twenty-seven has a change in number, 10 587711, i.e. twenty-seven votes in the committee. Twenty-seven in the committee. Vote. [[14:06:19]] For 248 Copy that. Twenty-eight -- no notice, no vote. [[14:06:38]] For 243 Copy that. Twenty - nine. No notice. Vote. [[2:06:59]] For 248 Copy that. Chapter four. For more information, see No notice. Vote. [[14:07:23]] For 248 Copy that. I'm asking Vladimir Vladimirovich McKeenka to control the race, maybe we'll skip the articles, and the committee has a note, so please raise your hand. Thirty-first. No notice. No notice. [[14:07:53]] For 246 Copy that. Thirty-two. No notice. Vote. [[14:08:12]] For 248 Copy that. Thirty-third. No notice. Vote. Baranov microphone, please turn off the vote, Baranovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u193	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I don't know why it didn't go into the last line of this article and I agreed to Minfin yesterday, and it says, "national socialist regime in the back of the enemy." The proposal was replaced by “national socialist regime in the rear of the enemy”. The word “national-socialist” should be replaced by “fascist regime”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u194	There's no committee decision, I put it in an editorial form. Article 33. [[14:09:16]] For 231 Copy that. Article 34. No notice, we vote. [[14:09:35]] For 247 Copy that. Article 35. Without notice, this is a list of protected articles. Please, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u195	That's my question. Can the costs financed by a specific fund that is guaranteed be considered protected?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u196	Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u197	Adam Ivanovich, I propose that the People's Deputies vote in the Government's drafting, as agreed with the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u198	I see. So the 35th article is voted in an editorial that is presented because there were no comments on the Rules of Procedure. Vote. [[14:10:43]] For 247 Article 36. No notice, we vote. [[14:11:02]] For 246 Supported. Article 36. No notice, we vote. [[14:11:23]] For 245 Copy that. Article 38 without notice. Vote. [[14:11:41]] For 248 Copy that. 39 – without notice. Vote. [[14:12:01]] For 247 Copy that. 40 – without notice. Vote. [[14:12:21]] For 243 Copy that. 41 - without notice. Vote. [[14:12:39]] For 245 Copy that. 42 – without notice. I'll bet you a vote. [[14:12:57]] For 247 Copy that. 43 — without notice. Vote. [[14:13:16]] For 247 Copy that. 44 – without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u199	Committee editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u200	Now, I'm sorry, so there's 44 there's an added point 7-1. In 44 there are changes, i.e. in the committee. 44th article, please vote in committee [[14:13:52]] For 248 Decision taken. He doesn't have any notes until the 45th? Vote. Now we're going to vote, let me put it out of procedure, although it's not out of procedure. [[14:14:12]] For 244 Turn on the microphone for Kirilchuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u201	Adam Ivanovich, we have a universally accepted norm and order of voting in the second reading. If there were no comments before that article, there was no comment in the Cabinet of Ministers, they were voted in the first reading, and why would we waste time when the figure on the board is the same. Let us vote on those articles that contain changes in the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Deputies and the Committee. It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u202	I have to say it's a very good offer from Eugene Ivanovich. Should we support her? We're backing it up. There were no comments before article 46. There were no comments to article 47, to articles 49, 50 — no comments. At 51, not 52, 53, 54, 55. Let's put 46 to 54 to the vote on these articles in what they are. [[14:15:59]] For 248 Articles that were accepted. By the 55th there was a note, read by the Head of the Committee, to complete with paragraph 18 of the following content: “In the case of untimely population calculations, thermal energy enterprises and budgetary institutions and organizations that are held at the expense of local budgets for natural gas consumption, the calculation of the corresponding local budget for the uncontained monthly grant amount. the general government budget fund to carry out in an orderly manner defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In this article, article 55 is put to the vote. [[14:16:53]] For 246 Copy that. Up to 56, 57, 58, 59 there were no comments. I put these articles to a vote -- 56, 57, 58 and 59. Vote. [[14:17:18]] For 246 Up to 60.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u203	We voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u204	No, it's not. That's it. Yes, we have already voted on the 60th article because it is a minimum of living. Yeah, we don't have 61. Up to 62? Up to 63? Article 60. Oh, 60 we didn't vote, yeah, that's another living minimum. There were no comments until 60? Up to 60, 62, because there's no first, 63, 64, 64, and there were no notes. These 60 articles include 64 copies.2 I put the vote to the vote. [[14:18:26]] For 247 Copy that. 65 we voted, that's the minimum of living. 62, before, yes, 67 articles are noted by the committee, 67 in the committee’s editorial. Vote. It's in the committee's office. [[14:18:55]] For 246 Copy that. There's no 68. The 69's gone. There's no 70. These two articles are about the 68th and 70th votes. Vote. [[14:19:26]] For 247 By 71st, there's a committee comment. That's 167 bucks, isn't it? Please, Sivuliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister’s office agreed that the child’s allowance would be at a minimum income of up to $392, a subsistence minimum. You're proposing 167. We are concerned about the future generation so that our children will grow up healthy. I ask you to vote for what the government has agreed on, not what the committee is proposing, saving the health of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u206	Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u207	Dear People's Deputies, I propose to vote in the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u208	The government supports the budget committee's proposal. So I put the 71st article in the budget committee. Vote. [[14:20:46]] For 247 Mikola Janovich, what do you mean, there were no comments until 62nd, were there?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u209	62, and in the paragraph, right, right, I'm confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u210	Wait. It's okay. So there's no 72, 73 prime. One doesn't have one. 73, okay. We're voting for an article in the 72nd. There are no comments. Vote. [[14:21:31]] For 247 Copy that. 73 Prime 1 is a new article. We are voting in the same line as the Cabinetman suggested. May I have the vote, 73 Prime 1? [[2:21:55]] For 246 Copy that. Up to 74, 75. 76, not 76. Up to 74 and 75 there are no comments, and we are voting in the text proposed by Kabmin. [[14:22:24]] For 247 Copy that. In the 76th article, the committee noted. And by the way, I can see that one of the President's proposals that he's proposing was taken into account by the committee. So I’m putting 76 articles on the subject. Sivuliski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. Well, you always have to start remodeling yourself. We're all restricting the top plank to the pension of 10,000 or 12 living minimums. Why there must be disfellowshipping for the people’s deputies. Let's start with ourselves. I propose to vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u212	Right. I'm betting on the vote in the paper, 76 articles in the paper proposed by the committee. [[14:23:49]] For 244 Copy that. 77 articles, 78s, 79s, 80s. Vote. [[14:24:17]] For 244 Copy that. 81, we've already voted, that's the minimum wage. There's no notice until 82nd. Until '83, too. By the 87th, the 88th, the 90th, the 92nd, there's no comment. I put these articles to the vote. [[14:24:57]] For 244 To 93, 94, 95, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101st, 102nd, 103rd, 104th, 105th, 106th, no, 106th. Hence, from articles 93 to 106, we are voting without notice. [[14:25:52]] For 247 Until 107th, there's an editorial committee. We're voting on the 107th committee. [[14:26:12]] For 246 Copy that. Until the 109th. There's a committee in 107. Look at the verdict. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, that's 108. Let's re-vote to the 17th in the Cabinet. 107. The Cabinet is voting. [[14:26:57]] For 247 Thank you. And 108th in the committee. Please vote. [[14:27:17]] For 247 Copy that. By 109, 112, 113, 114, 115. Please vote. [[14:27:43]] For 243 Copy that. 117 is an editorial committee, which we have voted in previous ones. Please report to the 117th Committee. [[14:28:06]] For 246 Copy that. 118, 120, 123 – no comments. Please 118, 120 and 23 votes. [[14:28:29]] For 246 Copy that. 124 Article – proposed to be deleted. Please support this proposal by the committee. [[14:28:50]] For 245 Deleted article. By 125th, 126th, 127th, 128th, 129th, 132nd, 133rd, 134th, 135th, 136th, 137th. So it's 125 to 137. [[14:29:33]] For 247 Copy that. By 138, there's an editorial committee. We're voting in the committee, 138th in the committee. [[14:29:57]] For 247 Copy that. In 142, the second sentence is deleted. We're voting 142th in the committee. [[14:30:19]] For 246 Copy that. Until 143rd, 144th, 145th, 146th, 147th, there's no comment. Vote. [[14:30:47]] For 247 Copy that. There are no comments until the end of the day. Huh? Government's proposals to the Princips. Who, Mikola Janovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u213	The Government proposes in the “Principal Positions” two trust points, the Government itself, the Supreme Council, that the Government, after the first quarter, consider the appropriateness of the minimum inflation rate of living. And in the event that inflation is ahead of the subsistence minimum, the Supreme Council should be subject to changes to the budget law. It does.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, we vote. I'm voting on this proposal. We're voting on this proposal. [[14:31:55]] For the 250. Copy that. What other offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u215	I'm asking Adam Ivanovich that we allow editorially the meaning of the clarity voted by the Supreme Council and the drafting of this paragraph, well, to write it out normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u216	Along with the committee, the committee will visit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u217	Yeah, along with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u218	The factions? Please use fractions: Region Party - 186, Yulia Timoshenko Block - 5, Our Ukraine - 4, Socialists - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 4. Yes, please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u219	I will also explain that the President and the Government, of course, shared this position and that was a condition of my conversation today that he would not veto the Law. I promised him that we would put such a rule in place, because that was, in fact, the Government's proposal. But Victor Andreevich promised that in such a case the veto would not be imposed on the Law, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u220	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u221	And the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u222	Now, Mikola Janovich. Kirilenko, please, Viacheslav, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u223	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word of motive. Dear colleagues, the point is that the President has addressed the government publicly and all of us with the aim that changes in the size of the minimum wage and minimum wage will be made to all of us in this room today. And to feed us with promises that we will introduce some point that we will then edit, and if the inflation that we know now is going to be greater than we're going to increase, we think is ineffective. In order to really avoid the President's veto, we need to make changes to the minimum wage and minimum wage right now. And the budget committee, when it sat down yesterday, could do it, and the government could support it in the hall. So in the interests of constructive cooperation, I would suggest that I go back to the consideration of articles 65 on subsistence minimum, and 81 on minimum wage. Increase these numbers and don't ask questions till tomorrow. Then the faction of our Ukraine, at least, can vote for these indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u224	Thank you. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u225	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u226	Mikola Janović. What other offer? Come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u227	Dear former Deputy Prime Minister! What is happening now is primarily the responsibility of your two Governments. So don't worry, so far the subsistence minimum, the return, the minimum wage is above the subsistence minimum. There's Goskomstat's data, study them and then talk. And budget law requires visibility then. In line with inflation rates and, accordingly, the increase in subsistence minimums is ahead of wage growth. That is when it comes forward, we will consider this situation and make proposals to the Supreme Council. And the second sentence, which also concerns the trust item: the Government should consider the level of wages in the Armed Forces of Ukraine compared with other military personnel and, in the event of non-conformity, submit to the Supreme Council a proposal for a step-by-step equalization of the wages of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Does that make sense? We do not have such information in the Government right now that we have a disparity in the level of salaries paid by members of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. However, the Ministry of Defence is asking this question. Now we have no reason to reconsider. And we have made all the necessary appropriations in the budget, but we will carry out a detailed analysis during the first quarter, and if the situation confirms, we will make appropriate adjustments to the budget. That's what I'm asking you to support the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u228	Yes, there are those who want to discuss it. From the factions, write down in a minute. Yes, please, Silchenko, a socialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u229	The Baranja word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u230	Baranovo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u231	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, you know that for many years we have been trying to resolve the issue of wage imbalances between the military and more loyal among the people who work in the Ministry, the others in the Armed Forces, the BSS and so on. And this imbalance is, of course, a kind of social tension in this category. And so the task that the government is taking on today is pretty complicated. But just to level things up, that's a lot of respect, and it's going to bring our co-workers to a full understanding. So I think we need to support this thesis. And as for the minimum of living, I also think it's quite logical. All we have to do is support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u232	Please, Ponomarenko Georgie.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u233	Alexandrovsky, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u234	Alexandrovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u235	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikola Janović, of course, will support this proposal by the Communist faction. But I would like to point out that the problem of providing the Ministry of Defence troops is very acute, it really requires a serious solution. But we need to look at funding in general, including the Ministry of the Interior. Because, for example, I know that very large debts on payments for... utilities, telephones are hanging in the Ministry of Defence, they don't have the money to pay off those debts. We therefore support your proposal to bring the level of content of officers and members of the Ministry of Defence into line, but look also at the funding and the Ministry of the Interior on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u236	Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u237	Dear Nikolai Janović, the “Regions” faction supports the Government's proposal. This really is a courageous step for us. I would like to say that, when we considered and prepared the draft budget for its approval in the budget committee, we drew attention to many positions that needed the same analysis in the same way. Therefore, in general, by supporting the Government's position on this issue, we say that the “Regions” faction supports this step and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u238	Moses Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u239	Adam Ivanovich, pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u240	Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u241	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear First Vice Prime Minister, I would like to inform you that the minimum wage in our country, unfortunately, has always been less than the minimum wage for the working. And the governments of Timoshenko and Yehanurov were approaching the minimum wage to the minimum wage for working persons. Now you're starting to subtract these. You've been leaving the same salary for 400 dollars since January 1st, which was set by the previous government of Yehanurov, and you're increasing the living minimum for the workers a little bit, so you're not getting close to those figures, but you're moving away. In this failure of your social policy, only part of it. We propose to return to the President's address and position of the faction of “Our Ukraine” in part of the subsistence minimum and minimum wage. In our view, this can help avoid the possible veto of the President and unlock the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u242	Please, Vladimir Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u243	I am truly surprised that such important questions are being raised just out of the voice today. I think it's a completely wrong position and we have, I think, a time when these questions will be formed. We need to take an example from the President, who has made an official request, including the government, under which he will sign the budget. If we're just shaping it out of a voice today and not in a native Ukrainian language, I don't think it's always the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I think those who can hear us, our voters, will support us that we're going to write this down right now. From the voice or not, we'll take the transcript and write it right. But the point is that these are the essential complements, the essential tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers, which really foresee improving the conditions of the people that we all have to take care of, including what you've been saying, coming out of the President's letter. I would also like to support the next proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to make such an appointment. Please vote. [[14:42:17]] For 252 Copy that. Also, be careful, fellow believers, we have a change in the “Final Positions ” and plugins of 1.8. Please open the draft regulation 2000/P4, which is the identity committee, paragraph 3. He proposes to invest in the expenditure and credit of the Ukrainian State Budget project for 2007 worked by the Cabinet of Ministers for the second reading of such changes, and there is a whole series of changes. I put to the vote the third paragraph of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, which was represented here by the head of the Committee of MacKeenko. These are changes to Appendices 1.8, according to the third paragraph of the decree. Please vote. [[14:43:16]] For 247 Copy that. Fourth, we've already counted because there to increase the funding of the general fund, we've counted it in numbers. And the fifth point is that, on the basis of the proposals outlined in paragraphs 3 of this regulation, make appropriate changes to Appendices 2,3,4, 5 and 7 to the draft State Budget Act, i.e. to make appropriate adjustments. I'll bet on the vote on this proposal, 5th paragraph of the committee's ruling. [[14:43:57]] For 247 Copy that. Yes, dear fellows, I see your hands again. We voted everything, all the suggestions that we had. Sign up for factions, please. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u245	Adam Ivanovich, please give the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u246	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u247	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the distinguished rapporteur, we would like to say that before we put the vote to a final vote, we agree on two positions, Nikolai Janović. Appendix No. 3, which we have considered here today, reads in the paragraph on financing education under code 0942: “Retraining of the construction of educational units and dormitories, individual national higher education institutions”. There is a proposal to remove the “special national” from this proposal, because we have the fear that these 75 million people will be affected. will go to literally four universities, and all other educational institutions will turn out to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u248	We don't have four nationals, we have a national in each city by ten. Please have the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u249	I'd like to tell your minister what I think about these proposals, but I'll tell him a tat-a-tate. I agree, in principle, that this position should be written in a general line “restructuring dormitories without any specific distinction”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u250	The Minister's office agrees with that, because they're not listed there anyway. Right. Please, Dry, pass it on to Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u251	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gregory Kaletnik?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u252	Thank you, Comrade Jaroslav. Thank you very much. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Mikolo Janovich! I carefully read the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Budget Committee, making proposals and noting, on page 3 of paragraph 6 above, which was missed in this paragraph, was technically not published “the formation of the statutory fund of the lysing company”. [[I took part in the committee.]] I'd like to introduce it, if necessary, and vote now. He was simply not on the committee. Editorially, editorially, sixth paragraph from the top, third page of the Supreme Council's draft ruling. It's a technical tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u253	I don't see anything here on page 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u254	So there isn't. It's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u255	There's no such thing. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u256	I'm filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u257	The Levite Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u258	Adam Ivanovich, I would like you to give an order to the Standing Committee to resolve the legitimacy of voting for a committee order. Once again, I stress and confirm that during the 17th vote, there were only 15 people for the quorum. The rest left in protest. "Our Ukraine" and BUIT have left the Committee's meetings during the vote, and, therefore, I would like to say that we cannot make an illegal decision to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u259	On the one hand, that is the case, and on the other hand, that is the decision of the Supreme Council. There may be a negative decision by the committee, but that doesn't mean there will be a negative decision by the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, we make the final decision with you, no matter what decision the committee makes is positive or negative and so forth. MacKeenko. I'll give you makin'enko. Nodmarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u260	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Mikola Janović, we have just voted the changes to the budget spending, including 45 million. For the purchase of AN-148, on ice-skating terms. What if the lysing conditions are due to a state-owned lysing company? We created a special state-owned ice-skating company just like we did for passenger cars. If you add to the lysing conditions through a state-owned lysing company. It's settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u261	Please, Haszuk, “Club of Timoshenko July”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u262	Peter Haszuk, Timoshenko Street. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u263	Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is now proposing to vote on an antisocial, lobbyist, corrupt budget. And you know, most of the sad smile is caused by this "hochma" proposed by Mikola Janovich to the Supreme Council – to give him an assignment. Mikola Janovich, do you need an assignment to figure out how much money we don't have to live properly? You need an assignment to do that. So all these tasks that you've voted on are for one reason only -- to cover up a fig leaf -- the inability of the Cabinet of Ministers to work and cover the antisocial focus of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u265	Please, Eugene Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u266	Mikola Janovich, I'd like to go back to the third and fourth suites. There is a problem that, I think, can unite all the deputies of all factions, regardless of politics and government, too. This year’s problem arose because there was not enough funding planned to provide a clear compensation to citizens for the youth’s housing benefits. And there was a situation where several thousand families found themselves alone with commercial banks, because the state didn't give them the money they needed. Now, unfortunately, the draft budget also has a third plugin, code 1062, with 123 million planned, and in order to pay back this year's debt and to provide at least 153 million more loans. I'm asking you to consider this, because we can look for our own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u267	Yes, please, Fishlegs. No one mentioned you, luckily.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u268	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mikolo Janovich! When the government submitted the Budget Program on Animal and Vegetables, and we now voted for substantial funds in support of these industries, a very specific, budgetary animal subsidy was recorded, including the bee family, the registration of salt products, financial support, and plants. It's a way of touching a hectare of crops. So the farmer gets on his head, he gets a hectare of crops. And if we're in charge of this budget programme now, not the one that's written down now, it's written in this way, budgetary and creative subsidies and state support for production and vegetation. You feel, blurry, not specific. So let's go back to what the government was offering in the first reading, and it's going to be another plus for both the difficult weather conditions, and the benefits to rural builders, and the whole series of programs that the peasants welcome. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u269	Mikola Janović, I think we should vote in this paper. Is there no objection? Well, in the editor's office, what you had on your first reading. It's more accurate than it's written right now. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u270	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you not to take your vote right now. All the texts were worked in detail by the Committee on Budgets, the Committees of the Group, the Ministries and the Cabinet of Ministers. And now I'm not ready to vote, one case, the trusts, the whole other thing, the drafting of the articles. Therefore, when we are in order to work, Sergey Nikolaevich, all funding will be carried out in accordance with order. That's where we'll write it out, just like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u271	Let's then, I have such an offer when there's a committee, and you're preparing it for signature already, if we accept, please look at the transcript of what Comrade Ribuk said. Because I think he said it more accurately than it was written. Yeah, okay. Please, Grigorovitch, and I'm done here. All of it. I can't see Sulkovsky here. Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u272	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mikolo Janovich, I agree with my colleagues who spoke of antisociality. Because 12 million pensioners did not receive an increase of 26 bracelets in order not to be restricted, deprived, to say the least, in 2007. But for a moment let's be abstracted from 12 million pensioners, let's give at least one figure that's defining and consolidating for Ukraine and for our society, regardless of politicians, from power, this is about Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. I have here in my hands a large package of documents that has been visited since 2003 by Prime Minister Janukovich, Yehanurov, President Yushchenko, and spoke to Speaker Moroz. I am talking about the “Golden Horseshoe” program of Churchia, for which 75 million were planned to be allocated, only 25. So it's practical or start or don't start. Please. We are approaching the 200th anniversary of the birth of the Ukrainian genius. Please add to make sure that what was done doesn't go away in 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u273	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think these are the proposals that sounded, the proposal and what Lilia Stepanovna said is absolutely correct. We've commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to review the results of the first quarter. And let's see, when we look at possibilities, find and add, and add, if there's anything to add. Now something is started or highlighted, and then you can add something. Dear colleagues, put your hands down, you'll need them now. You're gonna need them right now. But before that, Mikola Janović and the Minfin representatives, please listen. In the 138th article, we voted that leases should be reviewed within three months. Is that real? Really? 43,000 contracts. Maybe let's go up the deadline. Please wait. Mikola Janovich? Let's do it by six months, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u274	Let's do it for six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u275	I'm voting on the amendment to the 138th article to review. There is a review of government and utility leases, not for 3 months, but for 6 months. Please vote. No, no, let it be, it's a serious article. Vote. [[14:56:10]] For 254 Copy that. Thus, fellow believers, we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee, and in general, since we have accepted all the articles. Please vote. We are voting on the whole of the State Budget 2007 Act. [[14:56:39]] For 249 The law is passed. The factions. 186 – “Regions”, “Clock Timoshenko” – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 4, socialists – 29, communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Thank you, Mikola Janovich, for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, our profile committee. And please, makin' a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u276	Thank you, distinguished people's deputies for their support. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, three times in this room today was provoked from the mouth of our colleague Paul Ivanovich Zebrowski. I have a protocol signed by the People's Deputies here with the original signatures: out of the 25 registered members of the Committee on Budgets for the 16th, it's been retained - 1. And he knows that very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, I haven't closed the meeting yet. Dear colleagues, if you please, on the 17th, the more faithful 12th of January will be 100 years old to the famous Sergey Queen. There's a motion for decree number 2541. Let's vote because there won't be any more time. A hundred years. I am voting on the proposal to include and consider the question of marking the century from the date of the Queen's birth. [[Bill No. 2541]] Please vote. [[14:58:27]] For the 320. It's on. I put to the vote the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the Celebration of the Century From the Birth of the Queen” at number 2541. Traditionally, as we always do to celebrate. Please vote. [[14:58:54]] For 353 Copy that. And dear colleagues, you were given the draft Order 2651 “On the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission in connection with the elections of the city of Redbeard”. I'm asking how much. Kirovgrad, I'm sorry. I'm asking you to put it in the agenda. Vote. In order of the day. [[14:59:28]] For 244 Copy that. I'll put it to a vote. Come on, Lace. Give the Lightman a minute. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I would like to say, unfortunately, that I was forced to speak out of the rostrum because somewhere my card was working on this decision. It was not considered in the Rules Committee. We had a meeting yesterday, and this decision came out literally just now. Adam Ivanovich, please don't break the Rules! According to the Supreme Council’s Rules, it should be considered earlier in the Main Committee. That's not a bad question. It's just that you're in such a hurry because it's a court case. You're trying to push the court. Adam Ivanovich, don't do this! Let us consider the Rules. Adam! Adam Ivanovich! I'm talking to you! Under the Rules, let us consider on the committee, only then will we take to the Supreme Council. Thank you. Don't rush, don't break the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u279	Insomnia. Bespalogo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u280	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'll explain why she wasn't on the committee. It was in such a hurry that it was contrary to both the Rules and common sense. The commission is proposed to create only four people. In fact, there's something completely contrary to common sense and everything in the world that the faction "Our Ukraine" has been ignored. Moreover, the principle of proportionality is not taken into account. So I think that we should not have to create a temporary commission of inquiry that would determine the circumstances of the illegal establishment of the interim commission of inquiry today, let this matter be considered by the profile committee, prepare a qualitative draft of the decision, and then we will really create a commission that investigates rather than confuses the situation of the elections in the city of Kirovograd. Thank you. And please take it off the table right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-06-m0.u281	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, don't get excited. We'll set up a commission on Tuesday. I'm giving a task to the profile committee and the drafters of the bill to stand by all procedures. Tuesday we're going to set up this commission. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We're still working on the committees. The next plenary meeting next Tuesday. Good luck. With your budget!
