ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:00:14]] Dear colleagues, 325 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! I would like to follow the tradition of our Supreme Council to welcome the national deputy Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich to his birthday. Now I want to give the floor to the head of the temporary working group, Ivan Sidorovich, for a message. Please, Ivan Sidorovich. Turn on the Spoiler microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, at a young age, an outstanding Ukrainian bass singer, a soloist from the National Opera, a national artist from Ukraine, Mikola Chopsha, died. His name is widely known in the art world, and he has been a favorite for several generations, and I ask to honor his memory with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u3	Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! By day’s decree of the Supreme Council, we continue to consider issues related to the list of committees of the Supreme Council and their activities. I'm asking before we start discussing this issue, signing up and negotiating for five minutes from the procedure for dealing with this issue. Please turn on the system. Please sign up, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the representative of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sibko Vitali Jakovic. Please, Vitalia Yakovich. Vitaly Yakovic, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u4	Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues that, in fact, we now have two documents that are a proposal from our colleagues today. This refers to a list of committees that we can now confirm, as well as the number of these committees. I'd like us, when we come out of the way to look at this question, to come out, first of all, as a reference, because sometimes it feels like there's a person here today and he needs a committee. And if you want to know, most parliaments are just going that way to have fewer committees. For example, you know that the Council of Europe actually has 10 committees. So I suggest, if we look at it, let's move away from really the committees that we have today -- 24 plus one commission, and that's appropriate for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Komara MP, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Azarov Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u7	Please turn on Mr. Azarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I return to the proposal made yesterday by the Party of the Regions at the meeting of the Supreme Council, Ivan Sidorovic, as the head of the preparatory group, to convene a preparatory group and to bring to a conclusion the question of the structure of the committees that began in the process of the preparatory group. I stress that the draft preparatory group has been voted on as a basis. Details remain to be agreed and voted on in general and to be put in the meeting room of the Supreme Council as an agreed draft preparatory group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u9	Dear Mikola Janović, I would like to say that according to the Supreme Council Rules, draft regulations can be considered. Today we have three decisions, and it is these decisions that we can consider with you. Please make a decision on the basis of the suggestions you just spoke about. Please turn on Deputy Kuzmenka's microphone, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! Viennese, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We all need to understand that obviously the decision-making model of the Supreme Council, which works without forming a corresponding coalition, will not be productive. Always. We can even vote on the committee issue, but we're not going to find compromise again on the next question. So we certainly need to understand that we can talk a lot about the composition of committees, about their formation. Our faction expressed its position clearly that there should be as many as there are, but it must be understood that those political forces that have now assumed the responsibility to form a coalition should form it in a new format. Today's game in the hands of the Party of Regions, and we'll wait for the Party of Regions to form its coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u14	Turn on Mr. Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u15	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the documents that were distributed today that are close to the realization of our Ukraine's age-old dream of eliminating the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I understand what they're doing, because it's really what they're doing, revenge on the older generation for what they've done for the country and the people, for breaking the back of Hitler's fascism, for refusing to put veterans on their knees in front of the banditry. But I don't understand why the largest faction of the Supreme Council supports them in these actions. You don't understand that it's about eliminating this committee just because it denies the rehabilitation of the UN-UPA?Oh, my God! Is that what you want them to do?Oh, my God! Well, then, I'm sorry, the flag is in your hands, and vote with them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the last word is given to Mr. Tsusko, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Tsushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u17	Please give the floor to Rudekovsky Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u18	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u19	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, we really should not be standing here today, but we should consider the matter and decide on the number of committees. I think if there's a need -- I'm going to go to the interim Bureau -- get the faction leaders back together and take a few minutes off -- and agree on a compromise so that the people's deputies can register and get their jobs. Another question. A group of national deputies was ordered to have a working day on Saturday 17th. I do hope that some arrangements will be reached by then, and we could start choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I say that the decision of the Supreme Council requires us to consider the issues that we have included in our consideration. And before I go to the discussion of the rulings, I would like to give the floor to the People's MP Spodarenko. Please turn on the Spudrenk microphone. Oh, I'm sorry. Turn on the side mic, please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the very respect I have for Mikola Janovich Azarov. Mikola Janovich, we work with you in the preparatory group. And you remember how the committee was discussed. In fact, the largest factions did not want to discuss this issue in the preparatory group, and we moved it to the Conciliation Council. No such discussion took place on the Conciliation Board. With links to what is appropriate when a coalition is created. So, Mikola Janović, there's not, as they say, a subject for a dispute. We can reconvene a preparatory group. It doesn't take long. But you know very well who refused to discuss the matter. So let's talk about it in the session room. Finally, the final word is not for the consensual council, not for the preparatory group, but for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies, we are starting our consideration of the issue of listing, quantity, subject of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As I said, three decrees have been made by the people's deputies: two decrees from the People's Deputies of the factions of our Ukraine and one decree from the deputies of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Following these orders, the word is given to the national deputy of Klukkowski Jury Borisovich in order for him to report on the decision made by them and the national deputy of Zvarič.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u23	Honorable, venerable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Keykovsky Yuri Bogdanovich. I would very much ask my father not to change into old age. We have put forward a draft decision that is largely in agreement with our faction on the listing and distribution of committee powers. Responding immediately to the violent accusation of the former head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Mr. Zibenka would like to pay attention to everyone and, above all, to the audience and viewers who are not in our draft liquidation of this committee. And Mr. Zibanko is telling the truth. This is about how we proposed that we unite a committee on social policy and work with a committee on disability, veterans, and pensioners into the only committee we have proposed to call: social policy, work, pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. As you can see, even in the name of the committee, this specificity of the corresponding categories of voters with their own problems is reflected. The only question is whether this will be done by a single committee, in the only position, whether it will be done by two different committees from different political positions above all. As for other issues, they're obvious here in the draft decree, and I'm not going to talk about them. The only thing I'm saying is that our faction is convinced that there is no point in considering this issue right now. What needs to be determined first is the principled position, the formation or non-formation of the coalition, and then the listing and authority, and the formation of committees. Otherwise, the Supreme Council will form committees, but it will leave. And such an absurd line of conduct would want to be avoided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. And please, as long as the MPs register, allow for a reprimand to be made to the national deputy of Cibenka. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u25	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, you know, there are many obstacles to the cooperation of the President of Ukraine with the Supreme Council. In particular, recent events in Crimea have simply clearly demonstrated to whom this person serves. But one reason why these relations are not made up is that of a worthy representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, representing the committee, he called it three times and called it three times different. So once again, I'm saying that the union of two committees -- the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons -- is de facto decommissioning of the committee. Because one in three Ukrainian citizens is behind the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled. And people, people, this category of people are people that I can, of course, call today the golden generation of people of Ukraine who have done everything for the country and today are waiting for protection. So once again, I would like to emphasize that this is a clear position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u26	I take advantage of the possibility that I'm on the stand, and I want to say that I'm proud that even the Communists recognize me as a worthy representative of the People's President Victor Yushchenk. So, in this respect, for me, your position is just to confirm that. As for your further words, you continue to lie. Because there was no draft decision yesterday, and today the draft decision is and I'm asking you to open the second page and read the position, as the committee calls it. So do not mislead anyone, nor any deputy, nor any listener.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we start with a question to the reporter. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Dry. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u28	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of Regions, city of Zaporozhye Yuri Bogdanovich, in my speech yesterday, I supported your suggestion that the approach to this issue should be pragmatic, without emotion and without the flow of demagogies and populism. So I want to ask you a question right now: do you continue to confirm the point of view that you and the author you're presenting here, in order that, seriously, analytically, we approach the question of committee formation after the coalition is formed? That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me, though, I don't think I should break a copy here around the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and Pensioners and Disabled Persons, because it's different knowledge. Social work relations and social protection, social insurance and social security -- there's no problem here, so around the world. So far we're in transition and this committee needs to be preserved. Politicians are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u29	First of all, I would say that pension insurance is also a social insurance and I don't see the possibility of separate policies in insurance against dangerous cases, but separately in pension insurance. So I don't see a fundamental difference. As far as the positions are concerned. Am I confirming what I said yesterday? Yes, I'll confirm. After all, the first incentive that moved us to make our draft decision was to refuse to treat this problem lightly, and that is why we proposed a draft decision, where not only are the names and names of the committees but also the objects of their knowledge. We don't claim the truth at all in the last instance. And so we agree that this draft decision will be adopted today only as a basis, and best of all, it would be accepted after that on the basis of the formation of a coalition that will assume responsibility for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. In that respect, I confirm yesterday's stated positions and they are set out in this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u30	Please, Sivulski Mikola Ivanovich, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u31	Mikola Sivuliski, BUT faction. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u32	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u33	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, I'm glad we're on our way, we're no longer increasing the committee, as the Party of the Regions has proposed by 29th, and that's a certain step. The only thing that bothers me is that from your faction, I would like you to explain the logic of your actions. And I fully support you, your concern that the coalition is still uncreated. I'd like you to inform, if I may, because there's a lot of talk going on in the towers that you've already agreed to a coalition program with the Party of Regions. And at the request of Viktor Yanukovic, the section on political reform, will be called “Don’t betray Majdan!” and on the demand of Ahmeta’s chapter on fighting corruption will be called “The Bandit – Prisons!” Please inform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Mikolo, your, as it were, humorous focus on the question beats the finish line. Our faction doesn't negotiate with the Party of Regions, that's what I'm saying officially, and that's why we don't have any positions that agree with it. And with regard to the frivolous treatment of committee censuses, I'm glad you noticed that the factions of the Committees are only 25, not as you said yesterday, 29th. I'm glad you gave up your words. As for Mr. Mikhail Zjižinov, he carried out his personal parliamentary duties by offering a draft decree on his behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u35	Please, Bulba People's Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Vasil Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u38	Tushka, socialists. Yuri Bogdanović, every year, and more precisely, every call we begin to share the financial committee. But the first is the initiation of our colleagues of the people's deputies, former tax inspectors. And secondly, the reason that the burden on this committee is said to be very high. Of course it's big. Because there are bills in which a national MP proposes a 10 per cent tax, another 15, and a third to 20. And there have been several hundred bills under VAT alone. The Committee is in a position to do so, and the sessional room has not been able to handle it. And the next. What is the motivation for dividing public finances and corporate finance, how then to link? It's just a personal desire to get a job. ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u39	First of all, Mr. Tsushko, you may have read that draft coalition agreement and those agreed upon issues that were not signed only because of the unconstructive position of the socialists. Because there was a provision for the distribution of public and private finances. If private finances, corporate finances remain owned by corporations, and the state only withdraws taxes, public finances are managed. And it's basically different things. But if you take the trouble of opening an 8-page draft decision and looking at the subjects of the two committees that we're proposing, you'll see the principle difference between their objects of knowledge. And you don't have to shake your head like that, because the head of the former government should know that difference. So the point is that the Committee on Finance and Banking will be dealing with monetary policy, monetary regulation, securities, not taxes. And since we have a serious tax reform ahead of us, I don't think there's a U.K. National MP in the room who didn't talk about the need for tax reform during the election campaign. So in order for this committee to be able to deal with it in a purposeful way, its knowledge needs to remove other problems that are not relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, time for questions is up. I ask Yuri Bogdanovich to sit down. The word is given to present the draft decree of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the “Our Ukraine” faction of Food.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u41	Good afternoon, Honourable Presidency, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine. I really prepared this bill after we discussed this issue for a very long time and without an outcome yesterday. I, taking into account my own experience in the two previous calls, worked at the level of the Kiev City Administration, proposed my own draft decision to reduce the existing number of committees from 24 to 22 and to sort out areas of their functional activities. I would not want to open a debate here around the number of committees, but I am convinced that the issue is about the structure, the need and the relevance of the existence and functioning of any other parliamentary committee to the legislative realities of today, the modern needs of society. Now I don't want to stop at the functionality of every committee, taking into account the thoughts that came from Yuri Klukkowski, who was now making proposals, and I heard all the discussions on this issue when Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov was making his proposals. I'd like to propose the following. I'm willing not to put a bill or a draft decree on the table today, but to put it on the committee so that it and all the proposals are worked out and then we can go out on a single decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u42	I understand you're filming your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u43	I suggest the commission discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, when the bill is being drafted, then we won't ask the reporter questions, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u45	No, I want him to be united with the bill and everyone so that we can find a common language.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u46	I ask you to sit down. So the proposal was made, so I understand, to withdraw this bill and put it together for further elaboration by handing all the materials to the working group until we have other, such as groups to draft these bills. Dear colleagues, to save time, with your permission, I'd like to present the third draft of the ruling. This project was presented yesterday by Mikola Tomenko, and I'll remind you that the point of this project is that there is still a number and a list of committees that have been operating on the Supreme Council until the last day. That's also the material and technical provision of these committees and human resources, and that's the approach that will allow the committees to start their work without altering the premises or moving the committee's apparatus, and immediately starting work without delay after we've decided with you on the participation of the national deputies in the work of a committee, and we're going to take the lead of these committees. This is the simplest and most effective solution. As for the comments made yesterday before this decision. It did not contain a subject of committee knowledge, and it was with the subject of committee knowledge, which corresponds to a subject of knowledge approved by the previous Supreme Council leadership, that is what this list of knowledge is proposed to you. So this is a sophisticated version of the decision, and when there are no questions about it, I propose to go to the discussion of actually two draft decisions that are proposed today to vote. Is there no objection? Then let's move on to the discussion. People's deputies would like to sign up for a discussion of the regulations that are before you. Please. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, about the rules of discussion. In 20 minutes, no objection? There's no objection. I think all the factions, all of them could still come out, I think that's logical enough. When there is no objection, I ask you to include the "Council" system and explain those who have signed up. The word is given to Immortal Roman Petrovich by the faction “Our Ukraine” Please. There's a request to pass on the word to Oneichku, I understand? Please, Mr. Onechuk. People's Deputy Oneschuk. It's possible from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In fact, the question of determining the list and subject of knowledge of Parliament's committees is a very important question, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in this way, and all of us national deputies are doing our professional work on a permanent basis, working on committees. Thus, it is no coincidence that so much attention is given today to the seventh set of questions related to the organization of Parliament’s work. It's the organization of work, because the committees are the main, organizational element and structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, despite the fact that today, and you've pointed out, our colleagues, the Immortal, have put forward a draft decision aimed at broadening the debate around the structure and subject of committee knowledge, it seems that it can only be completed when Parliament is able to resolve the fundamental political issue -- this is a matter of forming a coalition, and therefore select the governing bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, our position is to continue the discussion of this issue, with regard to both the Conciliation Council's mandate and, in fact, the working group, which would be able to come to an agreed decision on the structure and subject of committee disclosure, with the hope that, during this time, issues related to the establishment of a parliamentary coalition, which should actually determine the fundamental constitutional issue, namely the formation of a government and the election of parliamentary governing bodies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u48	The word is given to the People’s Deputy Puplicow, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please. I can't hear you. The word is given to the national deputy Yavorowski, please, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u49	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I've been thinking about this problem that we're discussing with you, and I've come to the conclusion that, of course, it would be perfect if we created 450 parliamentary committees. But then there's another problem. That each head must have a substitute and still have a secretary. So I think it would be perfect for 150 parliamentary committees, and then everything would be in place, everyone would have positions, everyone would be satisfied. But let's think about something else. On the other hand, let's imagine what we're going to do now. And today, committees, such as the Freedom of Speech Committee, are located somewhere on the Forest of Ukraine, and God knows where. Now let's add the committees, are these new cars, have anyone counted any new areas? How many new states do you need? That's why I'm absolutely convinced that we need to contain these ambitions, put a dot and vote in favour of those committees that have justified themselves, which have already been tested by life. And I think it's too much to discuss. And also, I've been thinking all the time today, this is where my colleague, Klukkowski, has been speaking, it's become known, everyone today is talking about a broad-based negotiation with our Ukraine party with the Party of Regions. I want to welcome my colleagues with such a bold decision. And I would very much like to ask my colleague, or Klukkowski, or, say, Kendzior, if you will, join me with Taras Blackwall when you go to Lviv, take me. I want to see how they meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the National Deputy of Bondarczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I consider it appropriate to support and vote on the basis of the project put forward by the Turkish and Bodnar deputies. There is no need to repeat the argument in favour of this project. As for the specific comments on the projects put forward by the deputies of Klukkowski and Zježinov, I would generally consider that the faction of “Our Ukraine” found common language in its composition first and came out with one draft decision. For specific comments. I consider the proposal to eliminate the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons and other categories of citizens contained in the first two projects to be unfounded, illogical and premature. As the deputy head of the district government for social protection, I inform you that almost half of the written and oral language that comes to the local authorities comes from this very category of our fellow countrymen, which testifies to the acuteness and indecisiveness of the problems of veterans, disabled people, and others. So it is very premature today to eliminate this committee, to pass on questions related to its competence, to the knowledge of a major Committee of Social Policy. As far as logic is concerned. The authors of both projects from “Our Ukraine” somehow separate the Committee from Euro integration, viewing this as a priority. But in our opinion, socialist deputies today have more practical implications for dealing with the improvement of people's lives than often with the scholastic points of European integration. I therefore propose to support and vote on the basis of the project put forward by the Turkish and Bodnar deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u52	The word is given to the National Deputy of Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! You know, I've worked for the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons over the last two phone calls. Moreover, in my last call, I had the privilege of taking the lead in this committee. And you know, yesterday I heard a lot about the work of the committee I worked on. It was said that a representative of the President at the Supreme Council of Ukraine was said that there was a constant dispute between the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[I can't understand whether a person knows or knowingly deceives and national MPs, and society]] First. This is the first time I've heard of any controversy. Oh, that's different. We had close cooperation until we held joint meetings of the two committees on matters related to the subject of the two committees. And that's why I'd like to say today, by saying that these two committees worked clearly, in a very clear way. The other one. With regard to the low activity of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Sorry, that's an honest lie. Because I would like to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons for the number of appeals that have been considered on the committee is the second among the 24 committees, with the number of legislative initiatives – the seventh. So I'd like some other committee representatives to work as slowly as this committee worked. And most of all. Dear fellows! I'd like to contact you in search of mutual understanding. Realizing that one third of the most disadvantaged citizens behind this committee, the people who have given everything to their society, the people, Ukraine, and today, on the side of the years, in fact, can truly expect a better fate for them. Moreover, I would like to say that both in the working group and including a subcommittee that knows the subjects of the creation of the appropriate profiling committees are up to a hundred, I emphasize, to the hundreds of references of veteran, disabled organizations that today and today the head of the subgroup who is authorized to deal with these issues is silent. So, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you once again to support this version of the draft decision that contains a list of committees and objects of knowledge that was commissioned by the Supreme Council's previous call. I think practice, and that's another confirmation that practice is a criterion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u54	The word is given to the national deputy Kaltsev, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The word is passed on to the national MP Bronnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate on how many committees there should be in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Congress is extremely important and will be useful for the working group to take and propose a decision that has already been agreed upon. Since the fifth call is to address the challenges facing the Supreme Council in Ukraine, the challenges that Ukraine must meet in the international environment, the directions and dynamics of the development of the world community that are now in place. In this regard, the discussion is crucial. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this discussion cannot be limited to the distribution of chairs and the accusation that someone wants to get them, some chairs. Although the chairs are important. We see that two months -- 82 days fighting for chairs -- and an orange coalition is not working, because everyone has a chair and influence. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committees to be proposed must remove the cross. For example, energy development should be only on the fuel and energy committee. Even alternative, even clean energy is energy and needs to be professional. The Chernobyl and Environmental Committee is the Chernobyl and Environmental Committee. The second example can also be found in the case of Chernobyl. The Chernobyl Committee traditionally deals with the social protection of people affected by the Chernobyl accident. That is why it is likely that the Chernobyl victims are the most insulted and humiliated group of people who demand social protection. I therefore believe that a committee should work professionally, which deals with all social protection matters, which will cooperate with the executive branch. In general, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the proposal that Nikolay Janović Azarov has already made today. After discussion, let us refer this matter to the Conciliation Commission so that it can offer us an agreed membership of the Committees, analysing all the challenges that our composition must meet within five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u56	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Poljancic, the faction of our Ukraine. Please, is it? The word is given to Roman Zvaric. Please, National Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u57	Honorable Predestination! Thank you for the word. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! My performance will be very concise and very brief. First of all, thesis. Those who speak of the need to preserve an existing or permanent list of committees with such a subject of knowledge as was determined not by the Supreme Council of Ukraine but by the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I want to remind you of what you said about a year and a half ago when there was another Prime Minister and there were very large complaints about work and quality of legislative work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So pick up what you said at the time, and somehow combine what you're saying with what you said at the time. So if the legislative quality and the level of legislative work was that bad then, please tell me, what is the logic of maintaining the same order that is now in place? There's obviously no logic. So obviously we have to change the existing order. Now, let's talk about an existing order. They were just speaking out, for example, against the Committee on European Integration. I would ask you to ask about the legal basis, too, because the laws of Ukraine refer to two committees – this is the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, and according to the laws of Ukraine, this committee has been given that name in due course of parliamentary control; and there is a second committee mentioned in the Act on the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation, and this committee is called the “Committee on European Integration”. Its main task is to conduct a programme to adapt our legislation to EU legislation. So anyway, on any schedule, these two committees have to be saved, or we have to change the laws of Ukraine. And now my last line. We listened very carefully to those suggestions and comments about our project. And for the purpose of furthering our bill, especially taking into account what has been said here for the benefit of pensioners and disabled persons, we are calling off our bill for the purpose of redrafting it and waiting for your proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u58	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Tomenko, the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please. He passed the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I hope that we can move on the subject of committee today. Because there's progress in our colleagues who are already saying that we don't need to increase the number of committees, increase the number of machines, increase the budget costs. But again, I'm concerned about this irrelevant debate because the people's deputies who worked actively on the committees, and I would like to stress that historically, there were not so many deputies working actively on the committees in Parliament. They know very well that the best expert on subjects of committee knowledge, by the name of the committee, is the person who works on the committee. As long as we don't put people on the committee until they get together and they don't get to work, no one's gonna think of them better than to change the name of the committee, for example, or make a compromise with a neighbouring committee on objects of knowledge. Any attempt to assign committees to a particular person today is a completely wrong approach. I want to rediscover the position of our political power. First, we will never vote for the abolition of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons, and Veterans. It's a principle, a clear position, and we won't stand back. We never vote in favour of increasing committees -- that's our principle and a consistent position. But let's think about another thing. While we're here looking for and hiring important people from other factions who are offering to share committees, we have interesting events with committees in the local self-government system and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Yesterday, a historic event took place. The ruling “Block for Januković” in Crimea yesterday, by democratic vote, the majority ruled out all the most important committees of opposition factions. They say: “How? What else will you sit on the committee and watch us share the earth?" There, in the opposition in which the BUTT and other political forces not only have no positions as deputy heads of committees, they have been expelled from the commission so that they do not watch as the land of the Crimea disembarks. That's a normal approach. I'm a party of regions, please, yesterday you were fine for Ukraine with. Calm down. Because the result turned out to be bad, unfortunately, after the pain. So in terms of the problem of the Crimean Parliament, the same problem in the Kyiv City Council. See how questions were raised yesterday on the commissions of the Kiev City Council. The Narrow Coalition of the Party of Regions. “Our Ukraine” was very easy to share with the Montenegrin Commission. On the land commission, on the issue of real estate from socialists, and from BET no more than one person, so that they do not look at how the land is divided in Kiev. Let them do, they say, socialists and “Our Ukraine” education, and we will share the land. Therefore, dear colleagues, let us make decisions on the committees and not allow them to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Last performance. The word is given to the people’s representative of Garden. He is given the word by the national MP Miklayenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u61	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the work of the Supreme Council yesterday has shown that we have blocked it. The blockade is primarily due to the fact that we do not have a coalition until now, so we cannot move forward in the basic functions that the electorate has placed on us. I think the main reason for this blockade is that it is time for the President to say his big word and stop any political debate in this regard and start a fruitful job. That is why I am asking the President, with a call and even a requirement that we should get involved in this process and put the dots above the "and". Next. The second day we can't solve the issue of approving a list of committees. Of course, the question is that there is no coalition in the first place. If there was a coalition, the process would go faster. But no matter what, we need to decide today on the approval of the list of committees. We will vote, the Socialists will vote in favour of the ruling proposed by the Turkish MP and his colleague. This decree preserves the future, those traditions that have already been acquired by the Supreme Council have been tested and taken into account. And the reference, for example, is that there's a lot of laws in some committees, and in others there's less of a reality, because bills on the same subject are given up to 400, and then, if you just subtract them, it's going to be more or less uniformly followed by the main committees by the corresponding bills. The alternative bill, which is presented, has these moments, two committees are being reestablished, and two committees are being merged, and they have little logic. That is why it is necessary, nevertheless, to resolve the issue today in the interest of the socialists, in favour of the ruling proposed by the Turkish MP. And it's the Socialists who are underlining this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded with you the discussion of the three bills, and I will remind you that two draft decisions have been taken during this discussion by MPs Pożynow and Kłykovsky and Zvarič. And we have only one bill of 1007-2 left to vote, which I will remind you of, suggests leaving a valid committee system and leaving the subject of knowledge accordingly. I received a written proposal before the vote on the decision to give a word on the grounds of the vote. Valeriy Mikhailovich Suškevitch, are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Before the vote, I appeal to all the political factions of Parliament. Once again, before you press the button to eliminate the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, remember that 14 million people have been killed. Your constituents, your pensioners, your veterans, the invalids you stood before and promised to help, now you're going to merge committees, destroy them. Think about it, and think about it, that pensioners, veterans, disabled people, most of them are watching our session right now, and they're seeing how you're voting on how to eliminate the committee that's dealing with their problems. Remember, then, when you press a button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I repeat that this bill, which has been tabled by the deputies of our Ukraine, is to be withdrawn from the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree 1 000.7.2 “On the list, the number of the composition and subject of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call.” A proposal to vote this bill as a basis. Please vote. [[10:53:19]] For 181 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 123, “Our Ukraine” – 5, The Socialist Party of Ukraine – 33, Communists – 20. Dear colleagues, we are working with you within the limits of the agreements that have been voted upon by the Supreme Council, and they are in line with the rules of procedure of our Parliament. At the same time, as far as I know, the construction of the coalition, the proposal, anyway, did not come to the Temporary Presidium. At the same time, two decrees were made to change the work schedule of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, in order for us to make a successful decision, the interim Presidium offers a 30 - minute break. And during this break, hold consultations with the leaders of the MP factions and the temporary presidency. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u65	I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the people's deputies to the session room. Please, Your Honor, please sit in your seats, and we will continue the work of the Fifth Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of our session. The meeting now ended with the leaders of all the factions registered in the Supreme Council. A proposal for our next job is being considered during the meeting. Now we're going to listen to the authors of two regulations that apply exclusively to the working order and time of our session, the holding of our session. And once we make a positive or negative decision, we'll be able to predict what's going on with you. That is why we will consider decisions in the order of coming. 1008, the authors of the decree are the national deputies of Sadow, Šibko, Matvienkov, Rudzkowski and others. I would like to ask the People's Deputies who are ready to report to the 1008, which concerns the holding of the 17th June plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[It's, I'll remind you, Saturday of this year.]] Please, I'm asking the authors of the order to the rostrum. Who? Mr. Rudzkowski? Please give the floor to the national MP Rudzkowski. One minute, will you have enough to present the verdict? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going to ask this decision, we're going to talk about Saturday's work day, we're going to talk about tomorrow. Let's see how the work is going to be organized today, how we're going to do it, and what plans we're going to have for tomorrow, and if necessary, it's registered so that we can vote and make Saturday work. Thank you. So today we're taking it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! The decision makers remove it from our session. The word is given to the authors of the decree registered under number 1009, which refers to the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council until the formation of a coalition of MP factions. The word is given to the National MP, Zvaricz Roman Mikhailovich. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Clearly, we are in a very difficult and very difficult situation. This situation is due to some failure of constitutional reform, which was introduced on January 1, last year. The fact is, the legislator gave the opportunity to form a coalition within 30 days but failed to determine what the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to do during that period of time. It's quite obvious that at this point the coalition negotiations are unsuspecting. In this connection, the faction “Our Ukraine” appealed to all the political forces that won the elections to hold consultations on the formation of the next coalition. We are convinced that such consultations can determine the algorithm of the negotiations and identify the parties who will be ready to engage in such negotiations. Let me also inform you that, in the context of our address yesterday, such consultations took place, prior consultations with the Party of the Regions. Our proposal to hold such consultations with other political forces remains open. We're prepared for any proposal, such consultations may have both a multilateral and a bilateral nature, but it's clear that we need to find an opportunity to get out of this situation. In order to create a legal opportunity to hold such consultations, we propose to announce a recess by next Tuesday, which will allow us to still clarify what situation we are in today. But leaving the situation as it is now in the session room seems to us to be hopeless. So I urge you to enter the consultation regime with us, we are ready to speak with all those who are really ready to take responsibility for creating a coalition and for the development of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u69	Please give me five minutes to ask, ask, report. Please sign in. The word is given to the Zabarsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Azar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u71	I would like to take into account that before the announcement of the break, we have proposed to vote on the Dnepropetrovsk decision. Therefore, I would like to request the Bureau to place this issue on a provisional agenda today and to vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u72	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Kuzmenko, the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u74	Turn on the microphone of the national MP of Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u75	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Roman Mikhailovich, you remember when there was a proposal for a faction of regions to hold meetings of the Supreme Council to solve economic, social, etc. We warned that without the creation of a coalition, this form of work of the Supreme Council is virtually unpredictable because there is no one to sign them. Today I understand from your statement that you are taking responsibility for the faction "Our Ukraine" that a coalition will be created by Tuesday. I got it right, so you're dealing with regions and you're going to have a coalition on Tuesday, so you're still going to be okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u77	Joseph Vicentiovich, I only said what I said. We had our first consultations, our previous consultations with the factions of the Party of the Regions. We propose to hold a consultation either on a multilateral or two-sided basis with any political force that has won the election and is ready to sit with us at the table to find a common solution to the situation. To determine the algorithm for future negotiations and to identify the parties who are really interested in making such a deal. Our appeal remains in force, including to the Socialist Party, and to the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. If you're interested in forming a coalition with us, we're ready to sit with you at the table and consult with you. The proposal to hold such consultations is accepted either on a bilateral basis or on a multilateral basis. But we need to work together to figure out how we're going to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u78	The word is given to Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Simonenko's Communist faction. We are witnessing with you that the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shows that the contradictions of ideological, political and business will not give us any opportunity today to speak, to form a sustainable coalition. And this coalition is going to collapse in just a little while if the interests, first of all, of the big business don't coincide. Once again, I appeal to all the participants in this meeting: let us, however, define national issues, a list of national issues that will be over party problems. On this basis, we will form an anti-crisis coalition, because we need to address the major issues that are critical and deep crisis of the system crisis in the near future. That's a proposition. And so on. I also call for information from the Chairman of the Ukrainian Security Service on trafficking, as well as on developments in Feodosia. Weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u80	Peter Mikolaiovich, I understand from your words that your business interests do not allow you to enter into consultation with “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u81	The word is given to the National MP Chukmasov, the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u82	Chukmasov, Socialist Party of Ukraine. Roman Mihailovich, you now represent one of the largest factions. You know, I think you're acting like political impostors now. I would like the Regions to listen to today's speech, today, without interruption, to continue consultations, to make decisions and not to extend this agony until Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u83	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u84	I'd ask you to determine by impotence, not here in the session room, but with the doctor. And as for our proposal, however, please make constructive counter-proposals. If you do not have such counterproposals, I would ask you to refrain from saying so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the time for questions is exhausted, please give me the word of Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think that it is clear to the rapporteur that the level of culture also depends on whether there is at least a poor diplomat. But if we don't have a poor diplomat to stand on the rostrum and share what the political, ideological and business conflicts are, it's already a rapporteur. I regret that in the United States he was not taught the basic concept and the conceptual device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the provisional Presidium proposes to vote on Decree No. 1009, which is now presented by Roman Zvaric, without discussion. Is there no objection? None. The ruling, registered in No. 1009 on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a period of time, is based on the formation of a coalition of MP factions. Let me remind you, there's a break for Tuesday, June 20th. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Vote. [[11:41:45]] 253 votes in favour. Decision taken. The factions, please. Party of regions, “for” – 174, Block of Timoshenko – 0, faction “Our Ukraine”, “for” – 78, SPI, “for” – 1, Communists – 0. Dear colleagues, I understand that the Supreme Council has decided to take a break until June 20, 2006. I have a request, I'm sorry, procedure, I have a request, my honourable colleagues, I've come to the fore two suggestions. One proposal from the Party of Regions to return to a decision that was not supported by the Supreme Council last time on the change in order to deal with the issues that we have approved with you. That's the first offer. And the second offer is a 30-minute break from the SPE and the Yulia Block. I've got the next proposal, let's take a big break, I'm sorry, in turn, so we'll give the floor to the SPI and the BIT and then we'll put the Party of the Regions to the vote. After that, you and I will interrupt the work, finish the agenda for today's session, and take a break as adopted by the Supreme Council by June 20. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Please. Okay, and then we vote for the communists. Dear colleagues, please. Ivan Sidorovich is speaking from the faction. I'm asking Deputy Boko to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! I just put one very serious question on the Conciliation Council, and I want to put it in front of the entire Supreme Council. From the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I may have spoken six or seven times in the past about the fate of the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. Such events took place there. So the museum's management decided to create a new exposition. The collective didn't accept that. Our Ukraine, the director, was released at the initiative of the President of Ukraine. But the collective has broken apart, and now the museum has virtually been running for two years, falling apart, there is no exposure. The same story with the Canov Museum, the commander of Taras Shevchenk. There is an endless repair, no end of the land is visible, no funds are said, although the Ministry of Culture, headed by the former director of this museum, bought a $100,000 machine for a museum that was headed by former director Lichov. And so there's nothing going on at the museum. The scientific library of this museum is stored in a group of cult schools under terrible conditions. And these questions, as far as I didn't ask here from the Supreme Council's rostrum, were sent two questions by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and there's no movement in the matter. For one very simple reason, the Minister of Culture of Lichov is not as interested in these matters, because there are personal reasons. Unfortunately, the Minister of Culture and Tourism is in charge of the President of Ukraine, but they're both collectors, it's their business, they love each other, they don't love each other. But this is about the memory of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. We are all past, mortal, Taras Shevchenko immortal. But this attitude toward his memory will discredit our Ukrainian state, discrediting us all with you. So my proposal is, after all, the Supreme Council, I understand that we can't make a decision right now, because there's no one to sign it. But let's, as they say, the only impulse is to assign the current acting prime minister to intervene in this matter and, regardless of the high patronate, to the National Museum of Shevchenk and the Canow Museum of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. Ukraine and the ages will not forgive us if we put up with such turmoil and disrespect for the memory of our national prophet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, as we agreed, before the end of today's session, I will put to the vote a proposal that came from two factions -- factions of the regions and factions of the communists. In particular, make adjustments to the way issues are dealt with. It's about, as far as I can tell, reviewing the regulations on events in the Crimea, the events in Dnipropetrovsk, and the communists are offering, about events related to arms smuggling. Dear colleagues, in order for us to consider these issues, we need to change the order of the day that we have approved with you. At any rate, we will be able to consider these issues, even if we vote, not before June 20. That's understandable. So, as I promised, I'm voting on the proposal of these two factions to make changes to the order in which the issues approved by the Supreme Council Order are dealt with. Please vote. [[11:47:42]] For 204 The decision is not taken. At this job, I'm asking for factions, please show me. Region Party – 180, Timoshenko Block – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 0, SPI – 3, Communists – 21. At this session, the session is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin on Tuesday, June 20. Good-bye.
