ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Please, sit down, get ready for registration. Good morning, distinguished deputies, radio and television audiences, journalists, and guests of the Supreme Council! It's September 3rd. August 3, I'm sorry. You can see that people want to go on vacation. August 3, Thursday morning session begins. I'd like us to prepare for the registration. Please insert the cards, prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:13]] There are 268 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. I do, for the radio audience, report that now. There are some factions that are continuing to meet, so not all the deputies in the room are. For information, first of all, I declare that today is the birthday of Korzh Viktor Petrovich. Let's welcome him. Secondly, I would like to say in two words that for the agenda today you have some questions that I hope will be considered within two hours. Then, and at that time, in 10 minutes, the Conciliation Council will meet, Adam Ivanovich will determine the procedure for considering other matters why. Today, there is going to be a reformation of the coalition, in line with the proposal to amend the Rules. And we need to do, I'm asking for attention, a coalition announcement in a new warehouse, but to do so, we need to bring up the appropriate procedural moments. And then we look at the question of the prime minister, the application for Victor Fedorovich Yanukovich came and it was given to the deputies for an introduction. As a result, there are still a number of issues that need to be considered in Parliament and the revision of the Rules, and some other documents, I will simply not be taking up your time. I would like to have, after these proposals have been prepared, without, let's say, any warnings, vote in the session room, put them into the order of the day, and consider the procedure provided for in the Rules. If that's the order, I mean, because there's no other way. So I'd like to propose to convene a meeting in 10 minutes on the third floor of the factions. No breaks. Now we're looking at issues of order of the day, I see, some of them are used to intermittent breaks. Then there are many questions that are simply late for consideration. That's why I'm going to look at the agenda, and I'm going to review the draft Ukrainian Government Day in October 2006 (in the agenda): "To implement the National Programme for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Restricted Physical Capabilities." Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zuravko Aleksei Valeriyovich. Please. A representative of the committee will report because the reporter is ill. Please, it's not that important. Suskevich, yes. Or someone? Please turn the Suškević microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, the proposed topic of Government Day is really quite relevant, because the question of employment of disabled people is one of the most painful problems of people with special needs. I want to say that the number of disabled people working in the labour market is, unfortunately, still very small. In particular, in the entire population, working disabled persons account for only one and a half percent of the total number of disabled people in our country. Practically working persons with disabilities make up about 15 percent. The number of disabled persons in employment accounts ranges from 6,000 to 8,000. And it's employed by a professional employment service, that is, a professional employment service, only 3-4 thousand people with disabilities, mostly for jobs that don't need a high and appropriate qualification. The total number of people with disabilities in Ukraine is about 320,000. And these are the realities that exist today. Although about three million people with disabilities in Ukraine are under 40 years of age, it is certainly not enough to view the problem as being solved. The aim was to improve the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment for 2001-2005, which was approved by Presidential Decree of 13 July 2001, No. 519, and I would like to draw your attention to this by the end of 2005 to ensure real employment for more than 400,000 people with disabilities. Unfortunately, however, there has not been a significant increase in the number of disabled jobs. I mean, there's really something to talk about, but I'd like to turn to one problem that unfortunately we didn't have on the committee and that I had information a little after the committee met. That's right. The fact that this program, which is approved by the President's Order, is already, once the document has finished its work, it is now out of control as a program approved by the President of Ukraine. And today, in principle, this document, I think, is my personal opinion to consider how a document that is active, which needs to be considered in the government's control system is a little bit doubtful. Unfortunately, we did not have a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy at the committee meeting, and this was also a small problem that we did not pay attention to during the committee meeting. I would also like to say that at the committee meeting, it has been pointed out that the efforts of legislators working in the past vocation have recently led to major radical changes. Also, legislation provides a mechanism for the employment of persons with limited physical capacity. A number of points, new points, have been worked out in terms of employment for people with disabilities. And especially very critical, such as the recognition of unemployed and taking into account the public employment of those with disabilities who are looking for work. It's never been like this before. Disabled people's unemployment insurance is also the money that was introduced into legislation just now. Unemployment benefits are the factors that are being worked out today in the new legislation and that are still being worked out in terms of the regulatory framework that the Cabinet of Ministers is working on, and that still needs to be addressed in time. In addition, the law of Ukraine, of which I am the author, has been adopted to amend certain legislation on the resolution of occupational work rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. So today, there is a new legislative framework. In addition, there is a new Presidential Decree of 11 July 2005 on improving public regulation in the employment system. The committee suggests that we consider on Government Day this program, which has already finished its work and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u3	Let me finish, but 15 seconds, 20, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u4	The committee's proposal is to consider this in October, on Government Day. I thank you for your attention, and I look forward to making a decision after the intervention of a representative of the Ministry of Labour, social policy. This is significant in terms of what this document imagines today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u5	I think let's make this happen. The question is important. It should be considered. In a shape like this? Please, in this form. We're not looking at the draft law right now, and when you get to it, then we'll give the word and the representative of the ministry. However, if there is a question to the MPs or to the rapporteur, Deputy Suškević, or to Viktor Mikolaiovich Djachenka, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Work, can you express these questions? Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, because no one is recorded anymore. And you want to, don't you? Please. Then one minute. Sign up for the performance. Lady, "Our Ukraine," literally five minutes on these things, because the question is perfectly clear. They'll give you a word later. Matthew. It's for Zibank, isn't it? Say your word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u6	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Communist factions, Cibenko. Vladimir Mihajlovich Suškević gave a reasonable basis for this decision. It's the right thing to do. I would like to stress once again that, indeed, this Government Day will sum up the implementation of the national program. And that's right. I'd like to make one point. We arranged for him on the committee. I guess I just missed Valery Mikhailovich. The point is that the third paragraph of the decree refers to three committees. And the committee of profile for pensioners, veterans and invalids is called the third. So I propose to vote on this ruling with the re-election of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons as the main committee in this matter. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u7	Okay. This is taken into account, we will vote on the proposal if the authors do not object. Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u8	Dear Valery Mihajlovich, I have a question for you, and first of all, I would like to say that the faction “Region of Ukraine” supports this annex, which will be another step towards a civilized solution to the problem of persons with disabilities in our country. But that's my question. In the context of the Government's Day, it is planned to consider the work, the deep work of the Disability Fund. He has many different conversations and many doubts about the cleanliness of work of the fund. And you know we have a new problem. These are the 4 per cent that enterprises have a duty to keep places for persons with disabilities are very often not used, i.e. the fund to benefit from the enterprise rather than to employ a disabled person. In this context, would the matter be considered on this Government Day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u9	Valerius Mikhailovich, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u10	Of course, the work of the Social Protection Fund in terms of cost accumulation, and in terms of spending, of course, should be considered on Government Day. In general, I want to say that the situation of spending the funds of the fund requires appropriate legislative and regulatory improvements. This has been discussed repeatedly, and I support your idea of what is being addressed, that this is an up-to-date issue in the context of the Government Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u11	Stoyan, questions. I remind you, this is a question for the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u12	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, surely the faction of the Party of the Regions and our Social Committee support the proposal for Government Day. I want to say this and ask a question. Tell me, please, there is a problem today that a disabled person who receives a salary, works and receives social assistance, there are certain limitations on payment. Will these limitations be lifted during the consideration of the matter? What are we talking about? That, first of all, a disabled person would have a full salary at the job where he could do it and would receive a full pension, which should also be reviewed. Will this be considered at the bottom of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u13	Valerius Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. I want to say that all issues related to the regulation of the work of persons with disabilities will certainly be addressed from the point of view of improving the employment system. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that new legislation has been enacted today, and those, including those, deal with the issues that the honourable colleague Stoyan has mentioned. And certainly the ratio, let's say, of receiving pensions on an insurance basis and working on a disability in an appropriate position, on an appropriate job, is that today, in a certain way, is already regulated by legislation, but it certainly needs further improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u15	Matvienkov, behind him is Karpov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u16	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Valery Mihajlovich, indeed, is one of the most painful problems and, indeed, are people today who need adaptation and need to be given the opportunity to feel fully adapted to this society to earn their living. But the question that my colleagues have discussed, the system of work of this fund today, the mechanism of work of this fund, is what we have talked to you about on several occasions. It was hoped that this topic would be a substantive consideration of the matter. The funds that often go in opaque ways are distributed and used and people are left without jobs created. There is absolutely no incentive for the enterprise to create employment. Here we are in Mariupola, taking away the blind. There are enormous positions, there are tremendous developments in this regard. But what resistance must be overcome in this direction. Let's work out this model somehow so that manufacturers can help in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u17	Well, of course, that's not a question, that's a wish. That's what we're going to mean, and Karpuk's asking questions from "Our Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u18	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Valery Mikhailovich! I am very grateful for the work you do in rehabilitating people with disabilities. We have 3.2 million people in Ukraine with disabilities, including over 110,000 children or children with disabilities from childhood. Among them are 10% of children with impaired drive. At the same time, there are problems in obtaining both professional and higher education. So the question is: Do you not find it appropriate to complement the decision that is given to the committees of the Supreme Council on matters of veterans, disabled persons and so on to complement the committee’s name, in which the problem of education and science is known, with a view to refocusing attention on the ability of persons with disabilities to obtain both higher and secondary vocational education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u19	Valerius Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. You know, you've completely clearly and accurately fallen into one of the most painful problems of what affects both the employment of disabled people and their professional employment, because without education, without vocational education, without education, there's really no way to do any work and rehabilitation program today. Regrettably, the issue today is far and wide behind the needs of society, from the need to ensure that people with disabilities are employed. And, of course, in the context of the Government's Day review of the implementation of the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Restricted Physical Capabilities, one of the main aspects should certainly be the consideration of education. I really hope that both the Ministry of Education and, well, let's say, educational institutions will participate in the Government Day. And I think we're going to motivate this institution to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u21	Thank you. I think your opinion is clear, and we're going to mean that when you consider this issue, essentially, Vladimir Grigorovich, your proposal will be taken into account. Then we'll write it down as a commission to the committee. Is there a need to discuss the matter? I don't think so. So this is about the adoption of a decree, the announcement or the observance of October 10 of the Government Day of Ukraine, with the agenda “On the execution of the national programme, the professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with limited physical capacity for 2001-2005” as amended by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. If you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote as a document, this ruling, draft regulation. Please support this proposal. [[10:19:50]] For 260 Decision taken. A draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" is under consideration in November 2006. [[on the summary of the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2006 and on the measures taken by the CMU to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2007]] Samuelka Semenovna, head of the Committee on Education and Science, as well as Tomenko, from another committee, reports the National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u22	Thank you. I would like to say immediately that the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism has made appropriate adjustments, which I fully agree with. And he's proposing that this Government Day be transferred to January of the month, when virtually all the data will be analytical about how our country has been healed, that's the first time. Secondly, not only will we summarize, but in January we will have the opportunity to consider in a timely manner how we can prepare for the recovery of children next year. I think it's perfectly right, the right position of the committee, and I agree with it, and so I think we're going to take the decision that the Profit Committee is going to propose, by correcting me a little bit and very wisely, and wisely, by doing so. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like, practically, this is our next question, because I want to say that, thanks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's annual consideration of child recovery, this has given us an opportunity to make this a little bit better. Because we know that we have examples and changes in profile, and we have a very important problem today, such as the absence of such, you know, a common systemic approach to the healing of our children. We also have a very serious problem with healing, such as the children of Chernobyl. We know and have had examples of children from the Chernobyl area getting better in the same Chernobyl area, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. The Public Prosecutor's Office gives us a lot of information that shows that, unfortunately, and knowingly, the sector's children's health workers sometimes work under conditions that are virtually not a cure for our children, but just for a branch, it's all done. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has on more than one occasion asked the question that, of course, it was better not to spend money on raising children. And, of course, it may have worked out so selfishly for me, but I would suggest that in the single ministry, in the youth ministry, there would still be government funds focused on curing children so that they could be tested for their use. Because it is very difficult to do so today, it is very difficult to control how government funds are used. Finally, in order not to take too long, we came to the conclusion and, when we discussed the preparations for the rehabilitation of children this year, and now we are going through the process of actively curing children, we have made a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, given this commission to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in November 2006 for approval of the 2007-2012 National Programme for the Recreation and Recovery of Children. I think it would be absolutely right, it would be complete, it would be a systematic approach to solving this problem, and here we could predict the healing of children not only in the health clinics that belong to the State that belong to the specific ministries, but also to the prominent ones. Because, sadly, our health - care workers today also face a number of very serious problems. The Supreme Council Committee held several round tables and meetings with children’s health - care managers, which are owned by, or other authorities, a factory, a factory, a collective enterprise, and so forth, and they have proposed that this nationwide program be able to unite and be, as a truly state - owned document, a public approach has produced, principles, approaches, principles, and principles to address the problem of child recovery. I'm not going to give you the facts, you know without knowing that 80 percent of healthy children come to school in the first grade and, unfortunately, only 20 percent finish their normal - health school. I mean, we really need to do more than just "grab holes" today, as we do every year, and I hope that the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account all of these proposals, the work that we've done here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has sounded in this room, that we're going to make such a public programme and we're going to take care of the health of our children, although, of course, we need to take care of the health of our children from birth, from the development of physical culture, sports, a healthy image of life in school, higher education institutions, but it's going to be like this, I hope, a whole program. So I would like to consider, I would like to propose colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies, to take the appropriate decision and in January of the following year with a new government, with a developed programme, or maybe it will be an item, including the discussion in this sessional room, this will be absolutely correct on Government Day. And we're going to propose in January, so, in the complex, that we finish our consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Thank you. I don't think there's any questions. Doesn't anyone mind? Is there, yes? Any questions? Sign up. You won't? There's a question. Sign up, five minutes to ask. A miner. Please, Eugene Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u24	Eugene Hoornik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, faction of our Ukraine. Katerina Semenovna, your hearings, they're traditional, and I have to say, they do have some effect, but there was an idea on the committee that no less important than healing is the summation of their exams for children, the summation of admission to U.S.U.S., employment. Could the committee consider just parliamentary hearings according to these ideas, because there were promises that every corruption there, a violation of employment in an ideal state, would initiate such hearings. Could it also be done in January?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u25	Comrade Eugene, I mean, you're a little different. This is the next question, and I'm going to report on the parliamentary hearings, and then I'm going to answer that question. But I think Mikola Volodymyrovich will say this. As for corruption, higher education institutions, tests, the Bonn process, I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not stand apart from these processes, and at the legislative level we should adopt the relevant laws and really form, exactly, a state policy, considering that political reform is still the center of gravity moving to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But this refers to another question of parliamentary hearings. And today I'm talking about the government's Day only from a narrow question, from the healing of our children and grandchildren and children, including orphans, half orphans, from low-income families.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u26	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u27	Thank you. The sands, the faction of the “Regions”. The Honourable Catherine Semenovna, indeed, we need to make a decision on the Government Day on this issue and, of course, it is appropriate to transfer it to the beginning of the following year to discuss these issues with relevant documents and results in hand. But as for me, it would also be appropriate to look at the health of our children not only in Ukraine, but, for example, in Cuba, at the expense of our Cuban friends, because the question, you remember, in the paws of some of our political friends, has been very complicated and not only with Cuba, there are other countries. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u28	I'm looking at absolutely normal, I'm actually looking at this program, this Cuban program that's no longer aimed at healing, this is the treatment of our children who have suffered from a Chernobyl accident, and who are voluntarily doing the Cuban side, and sometimes we're also putting footstool in the execution of this program, it's too bad to lower their heads in front of the Cuban government and the people for how many years they've been helping our children. I think Ivan Vasilovich, that's a separate topic. And I would suggest, and together with you let's take this question out, it really needs to be considered. As for the rest in Turkey and so on, you know, I'm more concerned about the recovery of children, these children who will never go anywhere in their lives, whose parents here work, work, and hope in this country except for us, for our country no longer. And those parents who are taking their children to Turkey or Australia or Egypt, of course, have so much money that they don't need us to look into this issue in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u29	Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u30	Alexander Stoyan of the Party of the Regions. Katerina Semenovna, you know that every year, the number of healthy children decreases: last year, hundreds of thousands, this year, that's more. What is the reason? The reason is that the government's position was not fully thought out when, in 2004, more specifically, in 2005 the Social Insurance Fund took the money to give mothers one-on-one birth assistance — 8.5,000. And this is from the social insurance budget, as part of which the left side of which went to spend on children's travel. It’s just that parents can’t buy, and today they don’t buy for the full cost of travel. I have a question. Shouldn't we review the social security fund payments? Or else: Today the government owes the Social Security Fund more than half a billion dollars, doesn't it have to be asked that the government urgently recovers these half a billion Social Insurance Foundations and that money would go to the children's health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u31	I fully agree with you, the more we work with you on this issue of child recovery, and very many questions, Alexander Mikolaiovich, we have implemented, as well as your suggestions. But this question is very urgent. You can't patch holes and run programs at the expense of others. Indeed, the reason is that travel has become virtually inaccessible to many middle - class families.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u32	Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u33	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Catherine Seminovna, I support you first of all with this proposal, but I would like you and I to look at this issue in Parliament and consider another, broader problem -- it's still a problem to preserve those facilities that provide services, or to heal children. Because we have a big TB epidemic in Ukraine. Meanwhile, objects are being reduced and privatized. Those who treat people. So I think it would be very appropriate to consider this issue and to consider the proposal that we have discussed with you on more than one occasion. And I think I'm going to send you information from the fund to find out together about the preservation of the facilities that are needed for Ukraine today, for our children, so that those travels are cheaper because there are objects that have been saved by the state in order to provide services and treat children, and to heal children in those that are building public utility property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Valentino Petrovno. I think Mikola Volodymyrovich also hears Yuri Alexiyovich, that we're together, and I'm the author of this decision, that we're going to be dealing with this issue together, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u35	Please, have a seat. No, you can sit down for now, because maybe your voice isn't enough. So the question of holding these hearings with the suggestions made by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko is what I understand. Yeah? Do you have a word for it? Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Family, Youth, and Sports. Tomenko from the scene? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you of our committee's decision. It boils down to two principal theses. The first is that it is important for us to preserve the legacy of the work that was in Parliament’s previous calling and, in particular, in the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Therefore, we respected those days of government when the government informed about the order of preparation and then reported on how the appropriate season of child recovery had gone. [[Once again for those who asked questions, I want to say that we are discussing Government Day, not parliamentary hearings.]] And from that point of view, we fully support that this tradition needs to be preserved, but at the same time, I would like to support these speakers here, who were asking questions to Catherine Semenovny about the fact that, of course, the approach needs to be preserved, but also the need for consideration and the infrastructure of health institutions. I think that, of course, the State Property Fund here is very important to us and the local self-government authorities, because it's about the annual reduction of these institutions. And so we need to analyze not only how many children have recovered but what has been done in this healing system. At the same time, we came out of what is the decision of the Supreme Council that such a government day should take place in January. So the committee's proposal, followed by Catherine Seminalna Samojlik, said about it, the Government's Day, regarding the summary of the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2006, and the government will report on how it organizes the 2007 recovery season, we suggest that we listen in January so that the government will prepare itself and be able to look into the future. In November, the committee would like us to consider unanimously a rather serious question, such as the activities of state authorities and local self - government in the development of physical culture and sports. So we're not going to lose this close but very important direction, and we're going to actively prepare for the healing issue that we're going to talk about in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u37	Thank you. I understand that his information does not need to be clarified. Minister Yuri Pavlovenko asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u38	Data on proposals by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The only thing I wanted to do was give some information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, this year, there's not going to be a reduction in the number of children to be cured, and that figure is going to be 3 million. Ukrainian children who will enjoy rest and recovery In addition, in 2006, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, changes were made to determine that the recovery period is not 14 or 18 days, but 21 days, as discussed on the previous Government Day, when we considered the matter. And this is money that has allowed our children to be better healed. In addition, I would have asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the day of the Government, to consider and adopt the draft Ukrainian law, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, more than six months ago, on the rest and recovery of children, where there are very many issues at the legislative level that the Ukrainian national MPs have been talking about, particularly today. We also support the Government's Day on Physical Culture and Sports. We also consider this to be a very important and urgent issue. Moreover, yesterday the President of Ukraine signed an appropriate decree on the National Plan of Action for State Policy in the Field of Physical Culture and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u39	Okay. Yuri Alexiyovich, I think you'll be working with the committee in this respect with the committee to speed up the drafting of the law for plenary review. Meanwhile, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine", I say, in January 2007. [[on the summary of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2006 and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2007]] The project is on your hands. With the clarification that in November the Government Day will be in the development of physical culture and sports. You have these papers on your hands. That's why I'm putting this project to a vote. Who's in? Identify yourself. [[10:40:20]] For 262 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u40	He'll tell you. One second, please. Let's do this, Yuri Alexiyovich, I'm using it. No need, just a minute. There was a question for the MP, there was a question about the fact that they didn't reimburse the cost of healing the children of Alcevska, I understand. Give Hari the questions you'll give and it'll be basically an audio.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u41	I want to inform the Supreme Council that an appropriate government decision has been taken. And to be honest, I don't have any information at this point or, really, no funds came in, but this decision was made more than a month ago. And this issue is under government control, and it's been dealt with over and over and over again. So we need to clarify now whether or not they really came.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u42	Yuri Alexiyovich, then consider that the Supreme Council is asking you to do so or to make a recommendation. Take control of this issue to ensure that funding is provided in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation. Thank you. Yes, we voted the verdict. A draft Decree on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine in December 2006 is now under consideration. Registration No. 1118. This is what the national deputy Samuelka Catherine Semenovna wants to report, and the report is by Mikli Vladimirovich Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. The Declaration on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in December 1992, states that one important element of the mechanism for the formation and implementation of state youth policy in Ukraine is the holding of annual hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation of young people and the preparation of a report on this issue, the comprehensive report and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is given to every Ukrainian national deputy, as well as to the President of Ukraine. This is in line with this position of the stated declaration, and I have made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold such hearings this year and have considered the social development and development of young people in the state since 2001-2006. In view of the fact that parliamentary hearings in 2001 had already dealt with the issue of youth in decades. I think that this hearing is at least a little mobilizing, controlling, and this is a social need to determine the situation of young citizens, as well as to develop and adopt recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all branches of authority that need to be done on this path, in this field, in the area of youth construction. I want to tell you that, in the meantime, we have even walked away from such general approaches on the committee and, if you remember, and a third of the Ukrainian national deputies of the past are in this room, we have, even at times, specificized certain positions regarding the situation of young people. Thus, at past parliamentary hearings, we considered the question “The Rural Youth. Status, problems, ways to solve them.” And you remember that it must have been one of the parliamentary hearings where, in fact, everyone was alarmed, ringing the bell about the situation of our rural youth today. It's also a demographic situation and it's that low levels of income at a high unemployment rate in rural areas. This is also because the average wage in agriculture is two and a half times lower than in the city and industry. It's also that the number of unemployed rural youth aged 15-34, compared to 2003, has increased, and even though we are told that jobs are being created, millions, hundreds of thousands and so forth, but it is in rural areas that the trend is going to increase unemployment and unemployment. It is true, not only in rural areas but especially in rural areas, it has a youthful and feminine face. I mean, really, we've been looking at all of these problems and problems that relate to other issues. For example, in the past year, 1 out of every 4 teenagers who were brought to internal affairs agencies for various crimes and crimes, residents of rural areas. This is because we know that the rural population is much lower than the urban population. The participants in the parliamentary hearings pointed out that in Ukraine there was a tendency to reduce, and even destroy, socio-cultural, residential areas of the village, medicine, which had a negative impact on the ability of rural children and young people to meet their cultural needs and, of course, to have meaningful leisure. In general, we came to the conclusion together that the general situation of rural youth poses a certain threat to the security of the state and we even suggested that the Security Council consider this issue because it is a matter of a future state that we would not consider, which is whether it is Ukraine or not, whether someone comes instead of us and the enterprises and the public authorities. I don't think so. So this is of course not done, but I think this question urgently needs to be considered. Today, we offer just, more concretely, once again, a very wise committee and even suggested that the support of the young family, the strengthening of the social protection of the children, and young people should be more specific. The 2001-2006 analysis and what we need to do for the years to come. Because, more than that, I want to say that even the social, social protection that was provided for us, which was accepted here in the Supreme Council's sessional room for a young family, it is today absolutely nothing. And I'm even looking at youth housing. Well, please tell me how the government could have turned state regional funds, promoted youth housing, into practically commercial banks. How could it be allowed that when young families and their parents sold the hotel, the room without conditions to live in a home, to get credit at a commercial bank, that was, among other things, the idea of a minister of finance. and ended up no one today is compensating this difference between the introduction of the National Bank of Ukraine and the commercial bank. This is no way to treat a family. And on the committee, I'm more than sure that Mikola Volodymyrovich will meet. Well, we have hundreds of letters where young people are asking us to help protect her from the state that pushed her into this gap today. And so I would ask, honourable colleagues, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, to accept my proposal and the committee of the Ukrainian Supreme Council of Profiles to be able to hold such parliamentary hearings with you, according to a declaration that such parliamentary hearings should be mandatory each year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Is there anything unclear about what she said? Do you need a question? Please sign up for the questions. Five minutes. And I just want to remind you that this is the responsibility of the annual hearing on this subject, the responsibility of Parliament and the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Biba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u45	Party of regions. I give the word Jaduh Vasili Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u46	Please. Nuts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u47	Dear Catherine Semenovna, you have quite rightly said everything about the situation of our young people, especially in the village. I represent the agrarian area of Hmielnick, and I see that today schools are completely closed in populated areas, kindergartens, cultural institutions, in principle, farms and villages are dying out. So I'd like to ask you a question like that. What kind of a state program you see today in the person of the new government to improve the condition of young people in general, including in the village, in particular, except for the fact that we know the real state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u48	I really didn’t understand what happened to young people or in the country at all. Because it's such a program that maybe we don't have to talk for an hour or five minutes. It's a comprehensive program. As for young people, especially rural ones. You know, sometimes when they talk about the high words of patriotism and the love of the Fatherland, I'm always sure, and I say that if a State creates such conditions for a young person, when every young person, every family will feel comfortable in their own state, there will be no need for large slogans, and no one will ever want to change their homeland and go abroad to live in doghouses and, so to speak, exist. What is needed for young people, including in the countryside? First, our ancestors were wise and said that every man should give birth to a child, build a house, and plant a tree. We need a full scale, we have a state-wide youth housing programme, we need to make a financial basis for this program. The second is now an urgent need: in every rural area, to develop a program and a national programme for the restoration of cultural and health institutions. Because we have a large number of rural settlements that don't have field and obstetric points -- that's the second question. Of course, schools, I realize that the demographic situation is difficult, but it will get complicated if rural areas don't. And so, of course, these issues are important and work, that is, giving affordable loans to young families so that they can set up their own business, providing their families with a salary. I think it's going to contribute in some way to the fact that we're actually going to be involved with you in rebuilding our Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u49	Catherine Semenovna, take a little time to answer, and perhaps not with such passion, for she wants to leave everything, just to take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u50	Alexander Aleksandrovich, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u51	Semenyuk, please have a word. Follow her.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u52	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Catherine Semenovna, I don't have a question anymore. I have a wish. Nevertheless, constitutional reform does take effect and I think it will take full effect after our vote, Law 3702. Nevertheless, there has been the formation of councils on the ground today. I would like to invite, when parliamentary hearings are held, the heads of the district, district, and city councils to speak from below. Why do I say that? First of all, we have international norms on the social sphere. You and I have held parliamentary hearings here on the preservation of the social sphere and facilities that would provide services and be objects that would be used by the entire population. So I think that's exactly what normal people need to see, is that it's preserved in places like it's used, including the social areas that are being taken care of today's councils. That's why I'd like to invite you to these organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u53	Valentina Petrovna, by the way, we do, and we don't have empty halls. We invite committee heads. Moreover, we are young. The heads of villages, villages, cities, all of us, regardless of the political makeup, we invite all the leaders of youth organizations. Dear Valentino Petrovno, that's not the problem. And the problem is, tomorrow, the problem is forgotten, and young people are alone again with their problems. I mean, that's both your mistrust and the Supreme Council, and the government, and everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u54	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u55	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The problem is, of course, relevant, so much more, that young people in the village are in a difficult moral, social, and legal state. It's also the problem of preschool schools, it's the problem of both schools and the support of schools, it's also the problem of teaching groups that need extra social protection, it's the employment of young people when they finish school. Thus, socialists support and vote for reading data. I have a question about this plan: have these hearings been considered regarding the convention on contact with children that we should ratify, as well as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child? Are we including this or not? Because the world has already undergone the changes it needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u56	I think Mikola Volodymyrovich will think about it, but I think it's a topic of a separate conversation. Indeed, it is very serious. This is a topic of individual discussion, whether on Government Day or at committee hearings or at parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Have a seat, please. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the committee also unanimously supported the need to hold such parliamentary hearings and Catherine Semimenovna, as the author of this ruling, has already informed us that we would like to focus on a series of problems that are most relevant in recent years. I mean, it would be very important to look at the social component in us, the support of the young family, the social component in general, and the status of young people, and all that today has to do with a number of programs that we've talked about a lot in previous years, I mean, the payment for the birth of the first child. You know, today we've got alarming signals that we've started having trouble paying, that's the payoff going, but with much longer delays, whether it was predicted. Perhaps at these parliamentary hearings we will see and hear the government's position, let's say that they will guarantee the implementation of this program, which, once again, is spoken of. There's a problem, and here I'm fully agreeing with Catherine Seminevna to make it clearer and clearer, nevertheless, to explain to young people how we have a program with youth loans and what the chances for young families to get that credit, and how much parliament and government will support this program and expand. We have a bill by Eugene Filindash to increase funding, and we are looking at it in the near future, but the problem is not only in increasing funding, but also in a transparent, clear, open-ended procedure for lending these loans, so that all young people and young families know how and how this can be used. There are a number of problems that the committee will also prepare for these parliamentary hearings, I would not say "new" but less attention to it. Today, there are a lot of references to us in order to look at and perhaps legislatively strengthen the protection of young mothers who raise children themselves, and this is also true of direct assistance from the State and indirect assistance, I mean a payment system of elements. Because there are a lot of questions today about an inadequate payment system for mothers who raise their children on their own. Thus, the committee unanimously supported the need to hold such parliamentary hearings with specific problems. We take responsibility together with the government and, I agree here with Valentina Petrovna, together with the district councils, of course, with the local self-government to prepare and properly conduct such parliamentary hearings so that we do not only have a declaration but a decision. And these decisions really helped this general formula, which is called the improvement of the position of young people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich, no questions asked, so I understand. I'm voting on the draft Decree as a decree, as a document that we're taking on parliamentary hearings in 2006 on the situation of young people in Ukraine on 13 December. Please. [[11:00:17]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. There is now a draft regulation on non-closure and re-invention of physical culture and sports facilities, Olympic and Paralympic bases, physical and sports facilities, medical and sports dispensers. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, head of the Committee of the Family and Youth, Youth Sports and Tourism Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on this initiative, the issue of our committee, and the National Deputies once again to say that we have a committee formed in such a way that not only the Olympic champions are represented here, but also those people who are very well aware of mass sports and physical arts and sports and we have debated for a very long time at the last meeting on the key issue that we might have in the summer to enable us to correct the situation, or to improve the situation in terms of physical culture and sports. To date, we have come to a conclusion, and this is the initiative of Alexander Volkova, Ravil Safiulin, and mine, which was unanimously supported by the committee, is a dangerous trend, especially during this period of inter-government, it has increased -- it is the total closure of sports healing objects on various grounds. The first thought of many sports courses, tennis courts, or health facilities are located in central cities, and the land was calculated in such a way that it was for temporary use. And today, the city heads, or the city councils, understanding that there is a unique possibility, let's say, quickly, while we're having parliamentary discussions here, and so far we're not in the system of local government, of local self-government, of putting it under a shopping mall and actually clearing up the network of health facilities or sports grounds. I think you can see that Kiev is the most powerful figure in this. Unfortunately, both at the previous city head and, unfortunately, at the present and present, these trends continue. We were tired of responding to each particular case. For example, last year we fought in Kiev for several such objects, and our fight ended with the mayor signing the next decision. For example, there was a tennis club with twelve courts where children were involved. A shopping mall was set aside there and it was decided that the land would be placed under a shopping and office centre with a single tennis court. Or, let's say we're talking about simple sports courses for children in micro-regions, I'm not going to give any more examples. What position our committee and the experts with whom we consulted both in the National Olympic Committee and in the government have taken is the following. Today, the Supreme Council should show political will to prevent further closure of such objects. As we did so, remember, in rural schools and so forth. So today, we're taking a decision that we find unacceptable in closing down, re-classifying institutions of physical culture, sports, Olympic bases, paralympic training, physical and health sports facilities, medical and sports dispensers, and the Cabinet of Ministers, we're tasking ourselves with urgent measures to prevent this shortening. Our committee assumes an obligation during the summer period, not a decision, but a legislative way of settling the matter. Slashes vary either by amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports or by adopting a special bill. Thus, we plan that as we have voted with you as soon as we get out on Government Day in November, we will see a clear logic as we save the country from being closed here daily, especially for mass sport. The only point, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, when discussing and discussing in the committee, was the following: Volkova, Safiulina and Tomenka, proposed to adopt the law in paragraph 1 of the wording to make the following “consider implausible closure, re-profile, further list of these institutions, and to remove“without the appropriate decision of the executive authorities and local self-government authorities” from the fact that unfortunately, as I have already said, in Kiev and in other cities many city heads are still a priority for them -- to give this course, let's say, to some commercial business, how to preserve it. So we decided that this position would be tougher, and already in the law we would write more clearly and understand how local self-government works in situations of conflict, when it comes to issues, let's say, to close down or re-classify such a physical and sports facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u61	Sign up for questions. Muz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u62	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of Regions, Ternopil. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, after listening to your report, I am pleased that you have paid attention to this. And I'd like to offer you this whole vacchanal on the wall. The site, the retraining of the facilities, start ordering from Ternopol. Where you have the majority, where you have practically the head of the district council, the heads of the city councils, the village councils. And I think you're going to listen to the offer and you're going to put order in our house on Ternopilla. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u63	Thank you for your support. The only thing I want to say is that unfortunately, in most cases the district council doesn't have an impact on this situation, it's actually about city councils, because they are owners and those institutions that control municipal property, and unfortunately, the biggest problem we've had since the thoughtless decisions of local councils, I mean, rural, rural, urban, but, of course, that doesn't mean that the district council should not take care of it. My idea and our committee is to guide this order both in Ternopilla and across Ukraine. What's more, I'm going to say that on the committee we've decided that we're going to practice, we're going to listen to specific issues of local government and in the fall we're listening to that part of the work of the Kyiv City State Administration. If, for example, we have information of concern for Ternopolis, we are ready to engage a particular region, listen to the problem as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u64	Galunenko Alexander Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u65	Alexander Galunenko, faction of Party of Regions. Please pass the word to Corge Victor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u67	Deputies! Dear TV setters, radio audiences! As a member of the committee, I fully support this decision, and I think it's timely, because, in fact, it's a very dangerous trend, and today we're losing sight of the network of sports buildings, which is what our nation's health is all about. I'd like to take this opportunity to address my fellow MPs, to you personally, Alexander Alexandrovich, with such a question. The fact is that one of the most important factors that has led to this state of affairs is the adoption of a new Earth Code that removes the right to free use of land. Today, we must agree that our predecessors in Soviet times have demonstrated, indeed, a national approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u68	Please let me finish the question for 10 seconds, if that's a question. And if that's an offer, I'll tell you right away, put in a draft law on amendments to the Earth Code and we'll regulate it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u69	Absolutely. That's what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u70	I'll say two words. We actually said that on the committee. That's a big problem. Today we have a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to benefit from land use, Olympic bases, or health measures, the government has literally given 20 units there with something, and it's clear that this creates a situation where, for example, you have a health base and or some sports club, for example, the kids are doing there and you have to pay such rates as the market. That's why we do this on the committee. And I think in September we're going to propose a logic that separates business from recovery. In order for those who engage in recovery, physical education, to understand that they are not considered a commercial business, they are involved in the health of the nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, behind him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Deputy Ribukh, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, the question itself is very relevant and correct. But here's the title, "On non-closure." Maybe more creation here, the initiative to give and restore these sports courses even because, let's say, in 2004, when the Yanukovich government and the local government were actively involved, we rebuilt hundreds of sports courses in every season. So the way you look at it, if you change the name of the determination into an active phase, and the content itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u73	The position is right, and we have taken it into account, and we have taken it into account in paragraph two, because we are proposing urgent action to the government. And it says, "the restoration of the activities of the listed objects and the definition of sources of funding." In the title, we did not put this on the ground that was important to us right now if we were to put the risk in a relationship so as not to allow any object to be closed now and to show by this step that the work begins in parallel with the restoration. So in the context it is, I think, in order especially during the summer period, that we are concerned by the committee, that in the summer period this process doesn't go away, that the name is in a more understandable language and for the system of local self-government, that since the adoption of this decision, any fact of re-profile, or non-admission is illegal. So we'd like to keep the name, and your idea in the context is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u74	Vitaly Yakovich. Do you insist on asking questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u75	Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u76	Stepna Bulba? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u77	Stepan Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I support your paper on the prohibition of closure and re-profile from paragraph one. But the problem is broader, indeed, because there are different forms of ownership of these buildings. What's more, there's an effort by city councils there and so on, to hand over, to take this property, say, on the same trade committees, with a view to using it on our own, on our own, on our own, on our own, on our own, and so forth. One day, we need to act here. And, Mikola, well, you support, but vote then, for the decree of the past is ours: the committee has supported, you have supported, and your voice has not been. Do you have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u78	Decisions must be followed and the committee should monitor the implementation of this decree. I'll say this: there is, of course, this decision does not solve the question. Because it's more preventive, I'd say. And we sit down to work on the Law. Obviously, it's not one Law, because you're absolutely right, it's also about such institutions in the union system, it's about such institutions in a system of omens, such as factories. And these companies are already -- both ZATI and VATI -- exclusively utility companies. So it is very important for us once again that the Supreme Council demonstrate to all of us that this is our priority, we will not allow such closure. And then as we move on, I think we're on a committee with this kind of sporting potential that we have on the committee, and experts, we're already going to propose in September a very clear logic on how to move on. So once again, I would like to support the decision. And I would like to stress that the committee is asking her to vote, considering that in paragraph one we exclude the words "medical-sports dispensers", dot. Without “appropriate decisions by executive authorities and local self - government, ” it is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u79	Thank you, sit down, please. Yuri Pavlenko, minister, would like to make a statement on this matter. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u80	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! I would like to inform you on some of the issues that have been raised in the Supreme Council Hall, first of all with regard to the recovery of the children of Alcevska, that under Order No. 333, one million 989 dollars have come to Alcevsk from the funds of the Ministry of the Ukraine for family, youth and sports, and we have already received a report on their distribution. As for the other funds that were allocated from the Reserve Fund, according to arrangement of 380 in the amount of 6 million 28 thousand 515 dollars today, they are in the treasury account of the city of Alchevsk, who are now in charge of their distribution due to the fact that their first request for distribution, they have made a number of changes to it, and I understand that, from this and today, there is a delay. But all the funds from the State Budget for the recovery of children in Alcevsk, Alcev children, have already arrived, according to Alcevska. With regard to other issues, I would like to inform the Supreme Council that there are no delays in paying for the child’s birth today and that there have been no delays during the entire period of the program. With regard to this decision, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports it. At the same time, I would like to inform you that over the past five and a half years, there have been virtually no decisions regarding the closure, retraining of physical culture and sports institutions. At the same time, such efforts in a local council were constantly being made, and there was a serious discussion between the Ministry and one of the councils. Therefore, we believe that this decision of the Supreme Council is timely and correct, and we believe that there is a great urgency, as soon as possible, to adopt a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport, where all these issues are foreseen in the law. And in particular, the question of land benefits for sports and physical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the matter? None. Then let's say, before the vote, we thank the authors of this project, Tomenko, Volkov and Safiullin, because the question is very important. And we'll expect it to be reflected in that law that was mentioned by Yuri Pavlenko and Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. If you don't mind, I would like to take into account Mikoli Tomenko's amendment to the first point where the dot is after the word “dispensers”. I'll put this document to the vote as a Supreme Council ruling. Please. [[11:17:43]] For 277 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory State Pension Insurance is now under consideration. [[on the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens who are abroad]] It's a second reading, I think. That's why we're looking at it. The head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons reports Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, you may remember that last week, we discussed this draft law with you, the first reading of which was written by Oksana Volodymyrna Bilozer. And then when the document was adopted, the first reading gave the commission to the committee to finalize the document in a timely manner. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has developed a document and, taking into account the warnings that were made at the time of the adoption of the document in the first reading, we have solved a set of problems that regulate, regulated by the draft law to be divided into two parts. The first part is the problem of retirement for those who are temporarily abroad, for example, for about six months and a second part, the problem of pensions for citizens as they have gone abroad on a permanent basis. Since the second part of the problem requires a more thorough analysis of the calculation and accounting of these problems in the budget, we have decided to set this problem apart and to write down in the final positions of this law a mandate and committee, and to prepare the draft law for consideration in the first half of 2007 and the set of problems relating to temporary stay to solve the preparatory document for the second reading. 13 amendments were made to the committee, all of which were taken into account, and one remark was made by the legal authorities. The committee is ready to accept this warning. And so the committee proposes to adopt this document in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u83	In the second reading procedure, I refer to the authors of the amendments: all the amendments are included. All the amendments are counted, then you can vote in general as a document. Is there no objection? I put to the vote the draft law on mandatory government, pension insurance, more loyally, amendments to the Law on mandatory government pension insurance. [[on the payment of pensions to citizens who are abroad]] Please be sure, the vote is coming. [[11:21:14]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the International Convention for the Fight against Doping in Sports is under consideration. As reported by Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, Minister of Family, Youth, and Sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u84	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine. One of the most important problems that now disturbs the world’s sports community is the problem of using doping substances and methods and the consequences of their use, both for the health of participants and for the ethical principles of sport and fair play. The international community, the Council of Europe, the National State and social organizations of various countries are actively fighting this phenomenon, directing their efforts to promote the spirit of fair play in sports, to eradicate violence, to fight the use of doping in sports, and to take measures aimed at the health of athletes and especially young people. As a result of a joint international effort to combat drug use in sports, on October 19, 2005, at the 33rd session of the UNESCO General Conference in Paris, the International Convention for the Fight against Doping in Sports was presented and unanimously adopted. The purpose of this convention, within the framework of UNESCO’s strategy and programme of activities in the field of physical education and sports, is to prevent and combat drug abuse. In order to reach the entire convention, the States Parties undertake: First, to take appropriate measures on the national and national levels consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, to encourage all forms of international cooperation aimed at ensuring the protection of athletes, the observance of ethical principles in sport and the sharing of research results. To promote international cooperation between participating states and leading organizations in the fight against doping in sport, particularly in cooperation with the World Anti-Doping Organization. The need to ratify the International Convention on the Fight against Doping in Sports is explained by the need to harmonise anti-doping policies and to join Ukraine in the global process of intensifying the fight against drug use in sport. As of July 1, 2006, this document has already been ratified by 14 countries, including Australia, Canada, 9 European countries. During this period, a large number of UNESCO participants are active in joining this international convention, which takes effect after its ratification by 30 countries. By ratifying the convention, Ukraine is demonstrating support for the efforts of all interested public authorities and public organizations to ensure the full elimination of doping from sport, confirming the support of international inter-government cooperation in ensuring policy harmonization in sport. The issue of financial security for the International Convention for the Suppression of Doping in Sports, as defined in its articles, has been established, inter alia, that the cost of activities related to this convention will be covered by the UNESCO budget within existing resources at the appropriate level and by the voluntary fund, or by the combined use of the two budgets. At the national level, Ukraine pays its annual contribution to the financing of the World Anti - Doping Agency in accordance with the commitments set out in the Anti - Doping Convention of the Council of Europe. The size of the contribution for European countries, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Council of Europe, is, this year, 358 thousand 200 dollars were paid by our ministry. Convinced that the ratification of the above-mentioned convention will contribute to Ukraine's integration into world co-operation in the field of modern anti-doping policy and sports, will strengthen the relevant legislative base, bring Ukraine closer to the accepted world standards, enable Ukrainian athletes to participate in all international competitions, Olympics and to assert Ukraine's authority in the world arenas. Additional funding, provision of a given ratification does not require. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u85	The question is to Yuri Alexiovich? None. Do you have it, right? Please, let me ask you a question. Name your name, yes. Wheelchair, please turn on the phone, microphone. And Kendzior's, yes. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u86	Dear Minister, it is good that we have adopted the Convention to Combat Doping. Oh, that's my question. This convention all ends with whether we have domestic legislation or legislation that would allow, first of all, athletes to protect themselves from trainers who force people to do drugs. And how will we fight to protect these young athletes from doping at the very first steps, from youth and youth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. The ratification of this convention provides that a number of decisions should be taken at the legislative and executive levels that would prevent the use of doping in sports at any age level. And with the entire system of responsibility of the state in the event of similar cases. In addition to informing you that he is working in Ukraine, the Anti-Doping Center, which this year received the necessary funding for the purchase of equipment within 21 million dollars. Now it's being accredited. And once this accreditation is completed, we will be able to deliver results in Ukraine, and they will be recognized by all international agencies, the results on the use or the non-application of doping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u88	I'm sorry. Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u89	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Yuri Alexiyovich, in the past year and in the middle of this year, how many athletes in our state, participating in various international competitions, are said to have been exposed to doping? How many of these cases, if any, are there such statistics?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. I can tell you that this is not a very large number compared to the number of athletes who participated in international competitions. These are isolated cases, but most importantly, no high-level competitions, such as the Olympic Games, world-wide games of neo-Olympic sports, world and European champions have revealed any use by Ukrainian doping athletes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u91	Thank you, sit down, please. Victor Petrovich Corge, will, has a desire to express himself as head of the subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u92	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished fellow MPs. The political, economic, social significance of sports victories in today’s world is steadily increasing. The continuous growth of sports records is certainly linked to the considerable intensity and volume of training and competing pressures on the body of athletes. This, in turn, motivates sports professionals to search for all kinds of, often antihuman, and unethical means of ensuring that they win in sports arenas at all costs. One of these is the use of doping, which stimulates the performance of athletes on the one hand, but disrupts the natural course of physiological and psychological processes in the body of athletes on the other. This leads to serious exploitation of the health of athletes, which can lead to fatal consequences. Whether in 1886 the first death of a sportsman was recorded in a bicycle race. Unfortunately, this trend of accidents is increasing, including in Ukraine. More than 20 years ago, the world’s sports movement began an intense fight against doping. The search for effective organizational and scientific mechanisms is under way. The Council of Europe adopted an appropriate convention and an additional protocol that clearly defined the system of such work. However, the world did not have the only approach to solving this important problem for sport. According to the International Olympic Committee, a worldwide anti - dumping agency was established in 1999. And in 2003 the Universal Anti-Doping Code was adopted. For the sake of justice, it should be noted that the organization and the document mentioned are ambiguous in the sports world. But at the moment, they are the only compromises and cutters in the fight against doping in sports. In fact, the UNESCO International Convection proposed for ratification is aimed at recognizing a flaw and a code, in accordance with international law and in accordance with the requirements of the International Olympic Committee. The Supreme Council Special Committee at its meeting to consider this bill and to support it. But it is equally important today to recognize the ways of implementation in Ukraine of the international convention to fight doping in sports. I think we should make a protocol decision to authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve a series of appropriate organizational measures that I want to stay on later. In particular, the Ukrainian Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports needs to be amended because it no longer meets the requirements. It is also necessary to ensure adequate conditions for the development and accreditation of the national anti-doping centre to its laboratories in accordance with the requirements of the global anti-doping agency. And I want to say that it's not that simple, and it's not in a month, and it's not in a six-month period. This will require considerable additional allocations and will require the acquisition of appropriate biochemical equipment and training of additional experts. In addition, questions need to be addressed regarding the procedure for the purchase of drugs, their use in the treatment of athletes. There is a problem with the import, import and sale of these banned substances. Taking into account the importance of joining Ukraine in the global drug-fighting process in sport, on behalf of the profile committee, I ask that you support the ratification of the proposed international convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u93	Thank you. No questions asked, sit down, please. Is there, is there an offer, or is there a need to discuss the matter? None. A proposal was made to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Convention for the Fight against Doping in Sports. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking you to determine. [[11:33:38]] For 275 Decision taken. And it's under review the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ordering of Nuclear Security Issues on the Development of a Financial Reserve. According to Vladimir Kostinovich Bronnikov. Please. Am I wrong? Oh, I missed the 0022 project, it was in one of my folders. I'm sorry. Well, that's right. So I'm canceling the announcement on the question of. Well, a previous proposal is being made, and a draft law is being introduced to review your ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. Reported Deputy Justice Minister Lydia Mikolayovna Gorbunova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. The 1996 European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of Children, signed on behalf of Ukraine on 7 May 1999, was developed within the framework of the Council of Europe to protect the interests of children as a priority for each State. In accordance with article 4 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been a party to Ukraine since 1991, the States Parties have used all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to realize the rights defined by this Convention. Therefore, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of Children, which identifies possible means to ensure that a child is entitled, will contribute to the implementation by the State of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The draft law contains provisions on the ratification of European conventions on the exercise of children’s rights, during which it is proposed to make a declaration to article 1 of the convention. The application determines how this is provided in paragraph 4 of this article, a category of cases involving a child and being dealt with by the courts and where the convention will be extended. Taking into account the rules of the country's family code, it is proposed to extend the convention to cases relating to adoption of a child, the setting up of custody of a child, the identification of the place of residence of the child, the deprivation or denial of parental rights, other issues relating to the relationship between parents and the child, and any other issues relating to the child personally and the issue of his or her family. Taking into account that our current legislation in Ukraine provides for a variety of occasions when a child is given the opportunity to be informed and express his or her opinion, and this is taken into account by considering the degree of maturity of the child. Ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of Children will further develop the conditions for the protection of the rights and the best interests of the child in family courts in cases where this applies to the rights of the child. The main legislative acts in this area are the Family Code, the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which became effective for Ukraine on 28 August 1991. Ukraine's participation in this convention does not provide for payment of any contributions. The costs that may arise from the application of this convention will be borne by the funds provided for in the State Budget of Ukraine for the financing of the relevant authorities of the State. In view of the foregoing, honourable national deputies are invited to decide on the ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u95	Is there a question for the reporter? Ivan Vasilovich one would like to ask for the floor, please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great Lydia Mikolayevna! Indeed, we need, in the process of harmonising our domestic legislation, to ratify relevant conventions, including conventions on the realization of children's rights. But we also need to conduct education and education work among children. As you might think, you said that you don't need any extra funds, but you need to give the Ministry of Education a proper commission when developing appropriate curricula and plans, and you need to get to the children, to the students of their rights. And in places of compact residence. traditional, uncircumcised citizens for those children to ensure that this information is provided in their own language, since it is an essential right. How much money do you think we need? And how long before we start implementing this convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u97	Thank you for your attention. Indeed, no additional funds are needed to implement this convention. Like I said, there'll be money. These funds are really needed, but within the funding of public authorities. For example, the Ministry of Education and Science is obliged to make known, inform all children of their rights, and the Ministry of Justice does so, to carry out legal education, and to inform on time all legislative changes and their rights. This also applies to providing information on specific measures being taken in the regions and in a printed way, that is, translating the convention into the languages of the national minorities and bringing them to the knowledge of all children of Ukraine. And in this case, these costs will be. They are now budgeted by every ministry, whose mandates are the performance of these functions. So, of course, to this day these functions are to be performed, and in addition to this convention they also have to carry out, also inform each child.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u98	No more questions? There is one more question. Please, the last one, because five minutes are running out. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! A fast, socialist faction. Lydia Mikolayevna, you know that in order for us to have the full opportunity to participate in the European strategy for children, we need not ratify a few more conventions. I remind you that this is about cooperation in the area of parental responsibility and international adoption, and contacts with children, and so on. I'd like to know what the status of these documents is now in your department and how soon we're going to be looking at them at a meeting of the Supreme Council in order to be full members of this movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u100	Thank you for your attention. In fact, three conventions are being prepared for ratification today, namely a convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, enforcement and cooperation in the area of parental responsibility. This convention has been held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since June 30, 2006. Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the Field of International Adoption This draft of the Convention Ratification Act is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 19 June 2006. And the convention on contact with children, this draft of the Ratification Act, is also in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 25 July 2006. I hope that the next ones we're going to be looking at are these conventions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u101	Please, have a seat. The word is given by Vladimir Konstantinovich Kureny, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth, and Sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich. The committee discussed the president's proposals for ratification of the convention and unanimously decided to support, in this case, this decision and ratify the document. In our view, the ratification of this convention is aimed at taking into account the interests of the child in order to better ensure the realization and protection of the rights of the child in court, for which it sets out a number of procedural measures to enable children to exercise their rights. According to the convention, a judicial authority, or a person authorized to appear in court on behalf of a child, has a number of responsibilities to facilitate the exercise of his or her rights by a child. Children are given the opportunity to realize their rights, such as the right to be informed and the right to express their views, either by themselves or by others, or by other bodies. Ukraine’s current legislation provides for a variety of occasions when a child is given the opportunity to be informed and express his or her opinion, taking into account the degree of maturity of the child. The ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child will contribute to the further development of conditions for the protection of the rights and the best interests of the child in family matters. What problems, in fact, will be considered and regulated by this convention? These are family matters, and special interests among them are such as guardianship, place of residence, and access to a child, issues of relationship, legislation, adoption, and so forth. Setting up custody of the child, identifying the place of residence, depriving or challenging parental rights, other issues about the relationship between parents and the child, as well as any other issues concerning the child personally and the issue of his family. The Committee requests the Supreme Council to support the ratification of this convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u103	Any questions? I won't. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to take part in the discussion? None. So I'm putting in a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of Children, where the rapporteurs explained that it was about protecting the rights of the judiciary, the procedures that were adopted in the world, that we joined them, to admit such procedures. I'll bet the vote on this project, please. [[11:45:24]] For 268. 268 deputies support this document, and that's why it's adopted as a law. And now a law is being passed, which, I have already announced, has made an announcement, “On sorting issues related to nuclear security” on the formation of a financial reserve. Reports Andrew Derkac, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u104	The honourable people’s deputies, suggested by your opinion, came about by a protest by the National Bank of Ukraine that proved to him to be insolvent. In 2004, at the Chernobyl parliamentary hearings, we analyzed why the state budget is still exerting pressure on Chernobyl’s AES. In the end, the Law “On Organizing Nuclear Security Matters” was adopted, which made it necessary for the operating organizations to develop early drafts for the transformation of the AES into an environmentally sound system and to create financial reserves for these purposes. We have made it our responsibility for the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure social State control over the preparation and termination of the AES operation using the funds from the financial reserve of the owner of the nuclear station. Traditionally, by mistrusting the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have also put control over the current activities of the AES and the National Bank of Ukraine, not taking into account that the activities and authorizations of the National Bank of Ukraine are governed by the laws of Ukraine and the Master Code of Ukraine. As a result, a legal colossion has been removed from the real amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Sorting of Nuclear Security Issues in respect of the formation of a financial reserve, which relieves Nazbank of the obligations of the current control of the financial activity of the nuclear station. The bill is supported by the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine. Since the bill is essentially of a technical nature, we ask for support to the decision of the committee of profile and to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u105	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Who, then, would like to comment on this? No, it's not. Obviously, the explanatory note and the content of the document itself, which is very concise, does not touch specific, procedural ones, but is certainly necessary. I place it on the vote as the Law on Amendments to the Law “On the Organizing of Nuclear Security Issues. ” I'm betting on voting this project as a law in general. [[11:48:45]] For 276 The Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine's state of preparation for work during the fall-winter period is being announced for review. He will report to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u106	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. During the seven months of 2006, electricity and oil and gas companies created preconditions for the stable and reliable functioning of these industries during the autumn and winter period 2006-2007. So I'm going to brief you on the summation of the industry in seven months. The country's power plants produced electricity at the beginning of the year by 2.9 billion kilowatt-hours more than they did last year. At the same time, rising coal consumption has halved the consumption of gas from 2.1 billion meters cubic to 1 billion meters cubic. According to the schedule, fresh nuclear fuel is supplied. At the beginning of the year, nine deliveries were made, scheduled for the year 15, for which 201 million dollars were paid. Nuclear fuel also comes out on schedule. Three flights, scheduled for year 5. Oil production with gas condensate increased by 5.2 percent since 2005. Natural gas production at last year’s level. In the Lviv region, two gas fields with resources of about 5 billion cubic feet [5 billion m] have been discovered, and in the Prikercheni shelf, an oil field with a promising resource of 100 million tons has been opened. 43 new wells with a total debut of more than 2 million cubic feet [2 million m] per day have been put into operation. In Ukraine, 8.7 million tons of oil have been and are processed, which, along with the quantities of imported petroleum products, has completely satisfied the demand of consumers. The harvest is fueled with oil in the amount of oil prices needed, changing according to the fluctuations in world oil prices, which are about 1.5-2 months late. And today, there are no prerequisites for the ability of oil traders to increase them artificially. Ukraine's market for light petroleum products and the introduction of national standards for motor fuels have pushed oil-processing enterprises to accelerate reconstruction and modernization with the aim of increasing the depth of oil processing to 90-95% before producing European quality oil products. As regards the preparation of equipment for working during the winter maximum load. Preparation of power plants, nuclear power plants. In the autumn-winter period 2006-2007, the oil and gas industries are on schedule. The total funding for repair and reconstruction was $2.24 billion, of which 1.3 billion is funding for oil and gas companies and 904 million for electricity and electricity. The issue of reliable energy and gas supply of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has been resolved by increasing by 50 megawatts the capacity of the Melitotopil-Simferopil transmission line at Janka Substation, the operation of the gas-generating gap between the southern banks of Crimea and Sevastopol at the end of last year, as well as the organization of the state-owned enterprise Crimea generating systems. In order to ensure the reliability of electricity supply in terms of electricity supply to consumers in the south of the Odessa region, large-scale work has been undertaken, the construction of high-voltage electricity lines – 330 kilovolts - Ajaželik-Usatovo and Novoodesk-Arciz. Also, the expansion and reconstruction of Substation 330 Arciz and the construction of a steam-gas power station in the city of Bolgrad. With the aim of overcoming the power deficit in the central part of the country and the city of Kiev, 750 kilovolts of Ravenska AES-Kiyivska airline was started with 750 kilovolts of Kiev's total cost of 2.4 billion dollars, providing for the transmission of electricity from excess power in the Western regions of Ukraine. Work has been activated on the construction of the Dniestrów Hydroaccumulation Station, the first of which will be introduced in the following year. It's going to become a major element of the entire Dniestrovo power supply of 2,268 megawatts, which will provide Ukraine's energy system with essential maneuverable power. We are confident of the reliable and quality work of staff and equipment during the autumn-winter period 2006-2007. This also contributes to the deployment of the first hydroaggregation of the Tashlik Hydroaccumulation Station with a capacity of 150 megawatts, the introduction into operation of the Comishnian and Copilian Gas Condensate Fertility, with a total gas supply of 15 billion cubic meters and a second queue of the Kobzin complex gas production plant, which will increase gas production by one and a half million cubic metres per year by the end of the year. The introduction of a 6 megawatt cogeneration plant that operates on the eastern resource of the Sibelin plant. Another 11 - megawatt cogeneration plant will be introduced in the third quarter. Given the considerable amount of funding for work in preparation for work during the fall-winter period, energy industries have met their tax obligations in time and in full. The State budget is set at 9.8 billion dollars, nearly twice as many as seven months in 2004 and one billion as many last year. However, the amount of energy consumption from the beginning of the year did not reach the right level. By electricity, the average estimate for Ukraine is 96.8 percent. Let me draw attention to the unsatisfying level of consumer accounts of those areas that were calculated below the average in Ukraine. These are consumers of Donetsky – 91.9 percent, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea – 92.5, Luhansk – 92.4, Zakarpatski – 94.4, the city of Kiev – 95.9. Debt growth since the beginning of the year, in these regions, amounts to 449 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from At a low level, consumers of the coal industry were estimated at 86 per cent and lived at 89.2. And the biggest concern is the level of water canals — 85.3 percent. The estimate for natural gas and the average level is 88.8 percent. Highly low consumer accounts for Kharkivska – 65.7, Cherkaske – 78, Sevastopol – 78.9, Zaporozky – 80, Dnipropetrovska – 83 and Lugansk regions – 84.8. This level of calculation has led to an increase in debt by almost 500 million since the beginning of the year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the The total increase in debt for gas is 990 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the And the worst estimate for utilities is 63 percent and the debt increase is 730 million. This is the sum of $73 per cent of the total debt increase. We are also concerned about the large amount of consumer debt owed to TEE for thermal energy, which is over 1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Under the mechanisms for implementing the law on debt relief for the fuel and energy complex, a total of 361 million enterprises were recalculated. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the people's deputies for contributing to the extension of this law. As for the predicted balance of the natural gas distribution. Under the relevant agreements, 64.2 billion cubic metres of imported natural gas are expected to reach Ukraine, of which 59.2 billion are directly needed by Ukrainian consumers and 5 billion are added to underground gas depots with further exports of these gas volumes to European countries. Today, 9.3 billion cubic feet [9.3 billion m] of gas is attached to underground gas deposits. Following a series of negotiations with the VAT “Gazprom”, arrangements were reached for the introduction into the PSG of Ukraine of natural gas in 2006 of 16.5 billion cubic metres, sufficient for the stable operation of the economy of the state during the autumn-winter period and for ensuring reliable gas transit to Western European countries. In 2006, Ukraine will use 77 billion metres of cubic natural gas, with the aim of prejudice to the gas deficit situation, the NAC “Ukrainian Naftogazu” and the VAT “Gazproma” agreement on further implanting 2 billion metres of cubic gas into the PSG. The only question is what needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u107	The report is complete, and just a moment more, give it to him to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u108	There is also a need to accelerate the transmission of NAC Naftogazu Ukraine to the administration of the Minpalavanergo Naftogazu Ukraine in order to continue an effective, well-established policy of the functioning and development of energy companies. As far as other types of fuel are concerned, during the fall-winter period. Today, there are 2.1 million tons in warehouses. So this is the highest score in years except for last year's. We're planning to accumulate 4 million tons, which is going to be enough to run our thermal power plants. And in the end, in order to ensure the stable and efficient functioning of electricity and oil and gas industries, it needs your support for a series of legislative acts. First of all, it's the Ukrainian Warm Supply Act. amend Ukraine's Heat Supply Act and article 6 of Ukraine's Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water in part of the ban on the exclusion of borrowers from energy, heat and gas supply systems. Whether or not to provide sources of financing for energy consumption costs. Also in the period before article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electric Transport, in the part of the application for urban electric transport, the electricity tariffs set for the population. There is no source for this difference either. And the last. In the context of increasing the level of government regulation on housing and utility tariffs, it is useful to extend the mandate of the NHR to produce and supply tariffs for thermal energy, central water services and water management through changes to existing laws. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, let me assure you that our joint efforts will ensure that Ukraine's energy and oil and gas industries work in a stable and efficient manner. Their work will be the basis and guarantee for a reliable and continuous period of the autumn and winter period 2006-2007 until the needs of the population in energy products are fully met. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u109	I have an offer like this. All right, that's the last question in the morning. Let's take a look at it, then we'll announce a recess until the evening session, as we agreed, and we won't hold a meeting from 12.30 to 2.00. I will explain again: By considering this issue, we will exhaust the morning session. So what I'm asking is, let's not take a break, let's finish this discussion, and then I'll announce my recess until the evening session, by 4:00. Yeah? There's no objection. Then please ask the reporter. Please sign up. Can we have 15 minutes, please? 15 minutes. Selovarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u110	Celivarov, Party of Regions. I give the word to Tolubu Sergey Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Tulub, faction of the Party of Regions. Mr. Secretary, I'd like some information. How many wells are produced in Ukraine today, and how many wells do we have for gas? How is this used in the natural gas balance and in the use of gas? That's the first question. And the second question, if we can, is, why has there been such a sharp decline in the utilization rate of domestic nuclear power plants over the past two and a half years? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u113	As for drills, I can't say the exact number today. I can say that all genealogies work, they work at full capacity, and that, in principle, today, adopted by the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, means that the position where the gas of its own production will be distributed exclusively to the population of Ukraine, including the gas that is being produced today by companies such as the ‘Ukranafta’, the ‘BlackMornaphtogas’. And today, part of that gas is implanted in a shelter for the ability to implement it for the population of Ukraine during the winter period when consumption increases. In terms of the operation of nuclear stations, they work according to the balance of a year, a quarter, and every month, and so in this balance, the deadlines for repairs at nuclear stations, equipment and this balance are also balanced by the amount of electricity production at thermal power stations in order to secure those coal supply and to allow heat plants to release electricity to the energy plant, to receive money and to pay for the amount of coal supplied to thermal power plants. And I told you before, we've significantly reduced the use of gas from about 2.1 billion cubes in thermal power stations to 1 billion cubes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u114	Murderer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u116	Dear reporter, please ask me a few questions. You're saying there's gas in the vaults. How much is NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, “Rosukrenego” and other suppliers, although the Ukrainian State has a cube of gas in the vaults? That's the first one. And the second. What we always hear is so good that we have everything good with calculations, and the court that leads the “Rosukrenerge” against the NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” on debt. Why are calculations not carried out7 Who is responsible? Who Was Responsible? State authority is being undermined. Or who does it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. So today, there's a gas jam in Ukraine's underground vault. It's scheduled for the start of the heating season around October 15th to have 24.1 billion cubic metres of gas in Ukraine's gas repositories, almost last year. To date, about 20 billion of active gas has been planted in shelters, amounting to about 11 billion. So this gas is distributed by the owners. So it's going to be somewhere at the end of the heating season, at the beginning of the heating season, so by October 15, these 24 billion are going to be distributed like this. So Naftogaz Ukraine – 5.4 billion, RossUkreenergo – 6 billion, the Ukrgazenergo joint venture – 8.7 billion and other owners – is meant, and our enterprises, and part of the Reserve is 2.9 billion. This gas will be sufficient to provide consumers of Ukraine and to ensure normal gas transit to European countries with significant reductions in temperature and increased gas consumption. As far as debt is concerned. Indeed, at the beginning of the year, because gas tariffs did not match the price, which means that Ukraine was buying gas, that is, $95 per thousand cubic meters, means that prices were only reviewed from the second quarter, so there was a debt to RossUkr Energo for the amount of gas consumed by Ukraine. I just want to say that it was unprecedented in the history of Ukraine, the volume of gas consumption, because there were appropriate weather conditions and almost Ukraine was the only state that had not experienced a reduction in gas in both Europe and among the countries of SND, a reduction in gas under these difficult weather conditions. And today, really, there's debt, well today Naftogaz is doing the credit right, I think this week this loan is going to be received, where the loan is going to be calculated, we're going to be counting on this consumed gas. There's no court case today. There is a claim from the previous “Rosukrenerego” and that is why, I am sure, there will be no court case or court case. We're finishing the job and it's going to be, for this gas consumed, so it's going to be Naftogaz today. Well, this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u118	Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u119	Dear Ivan Vasilevich, I have a few questions. You know there's more than 500,000 tons of coal in Donetsk, Lugansk, warehouses today. We're talking about winter preparations. But we know we were making a request for Customs. So you're getting coal from across the border, so more than 5 million tons have been imported. Since the beginning of the year, some 160 million dollars have not been received from miners for the unloaded coal. We met in Kabmin today on 12 July and raised these questions. So far, neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor you have done anything. Today we can criticize miners, but we must honour the commitments of those who say to the miners: “We have obtained coal, pay us”. So one question I have is, do you know that before the miner's day, you're willing to settle your debt and pay all your debts to the miner's day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u120	Dear Victor Ivanovich, which refers to the amount of coal that comes from the thermal power plant. I've already said we've increased the volume of this coal and we're balancing it. And that's the answer to Sergey Borisovich's question on the work of these generations in order to secure the demand for this coal. I can safely say that the heat plants that generate coal companies from Russia, other countries, did not buy. That's what we've been eating -- that's domestic coal from different companies that supply. As far as Customs is concerned, indeed. A grant contract has been concluded by the European Union as part of compensation for the Chernobyl nuclear station’s stop and the grant has unfortunately been won by the Russian company. But this tender was conducted by a Eurocommission and it's only 400,000 coals, it's not coming yet. So as far as debt is concerned, really. Today, coal debt is about 140 million. And I want to remind you that the debt of coal companies for electricity is more than 200 million. But anyway, today we're going to pay by arrangement with the Ministry of Coal by generating companies about 15 million dollars. And today, the loan agreement is now signed at 140 million dollars for full coal use. So, so there will be no debt for coal, I just want to say, from the middle of last year's energy year, when the price of coal was raised, almost a hundred percent was calculated for coal. And in the middle of last year, virtually, there were long-term outstanding debts in terms of both this and the budget, and energy, about 500 to 600 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. So today these agreements are signed, additional lending and this debt will be repaid. While we're not sure that coal industries are going to be accounted for by electricity and debt, I'm sure there's going to be about 200 million left.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u121	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u122	Garbage, Party of Regions. Dear Ivan Vasilovich! Please tell me two questions to you, how much gas is being produced in Ukraine, and is this amount of gas sufficient to provide the utilities that are being provided to our population? That's the first question. And don't you think that, after some scandal involving gas exports, you might want to go back to the question that a monopoly would have a state-owned organization called Naftogaz Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. As far as the gas of its own production is concerned, I've already said that this quantity is about 20 billion. cubes and if we're this gas, our own production, it's also used for technological purposes, and we have about 19 billion. And this corresponds to the quantity of population consumption. With regard to this category of consumers, these are the budgetary institutions and organizations, the Heatcommunergo, the technology gas for the gas transport system, the technology gas for the Ogleenergo, this gas needs to be additional to around 14 billion. Cubes. And so today a decision was made, and today it is being made that the gas of its own production, it is being channelled exclusively to the population, and that amount of gas for the Heatcommunergo and the social group of consumers, it is also buying Naftogaz of Ukraine at the Krukgazenergo and supplying at the tariffs set by the National Regulatory Commission. As far as gas is concerned, there are absolutely no obstacles to any organization, namely Naftogaz, in Ukraine, buying gas in Gazprom, in other companies. The only question is the price. And today's gas purchase and balance sheet at $95 per 1,000 meters, I think it's the best price there is. Today, our neighbors in Moldova are already buying $160 worth of gas while the gas system is being transferred to the administration. You can buy gas in Gazprom on a straight line, but it's going to be gas at a different price. I don't think that's appropriate for today. I think we need to do everything we can to save the price of $95.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u124	Dutch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u125	Party of regions, Dutch, Crimea. Dear Ivan Vasiljevic, the construction of the gas pipeline has been under way for several years in the Bahchisarai area and heat for the town of Sevastopol and South Coast, respectively. Pipes rot aimlessly, and at this time the inhabitants of Sevastopol and the South Coast suffer discomfort. Will the construction of the gas pipeline be completed by the heating season this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u126	Thank you. There are two questions. The gas pipeline, which was put into service last year and last year was the first year when Sevastopol did not have a gas deficit. And the first year, when the Sevastopol TEC was fully repaired for a short period of time, we returned it to public property, it was leased and this switch was completed, and I can just confirm it. I was in Sevastopol several times and the inhabitants of Sevastopol, and they even thanked me for the fact that there was no deficit for the first time in years. There's another question about making a ring around Sevastopol, that's the second line, and now it's being funded. I can just confirm that today's gas issue is resolved. We are now dealing with the question of how to increase the reliability of gas supply, because before that there was virtually no gas, because there was no pressure. And the Crimea has developed an entire programme, not only on gas supply, but also on electricity. I've been reporting. We have increased the 50 megawatt section and are doing enough work to increase 300 megawatts and completely close the issue of the reliability and development of the Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u127	Thank you, take your seats, please. There's the head of the profile committee, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as we heard with you the information of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Plachev Ivan Vasilovich, on the state of preparation for the fall-winter period of the sixth and seventh years. Of course, the mentioned question cannot help but bother the MPs in the light of the events of the last heating season. We need to take maximum steps to avoid situations similar to those in the cities of Alchevsk and Alexandria. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy in its first session devoted itself to preparing for the winter, hearing the reports of the ministers, making the appropriate decision, and giving its recommendations and instructions to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Ministry of Education and Intelligence. The committee plans to return to the subject and check for winter preparations in September of this year. On Monday, as we know, the Conciliation Council of Deputies supported the idea that preparing for the winter should be discussed not only on the profile committee but also here in the sessional room. As I said before, our committee has already considered the issue of the state of preparation for winter had the opportunity before the rest of the House of Deputies, to listen to the leaders of the energy fields, and to get to know the materials. So we quickly proposed to you a draft regulation on the information of the Minister of Fuel and Energy. Of course, the main condition for the safe passage of the fall-winter maximum loads is the creation of the necessary fuel reserves and the implementation of the equipment repair plan on fuel-energy facilities. This significantly reduces the risk of unstable operation of Ukraine’s unified energy system in cases of unforeseen situations or natural phenomena. And that's the first thing we're paying attention to in the draft of our decision. The Cabinet of Ministers, together with local authorities, should ensure that all forms of ownership are completed in the autumn-winter period of the fuel-energy complex, heating facilities, and start the heating season not later than the scheduled schedule in the respective regions, ensure that the heating facilities are properly provided with energy resources for the start of the heating season, taking into account the regulatory reserves and reserves of the state reserve. We can also be satisfied with the uncertainty with the prices of natural gas from the following year, as well as with the incomplete definition of covering the natural gas balance in the fourth quarter of 2006. So the committee asked Minpalevenergo about the need to achieve an energy balance and to ensure a balance of revenue and distribution of natural gas. A major concern in the national MPs was the information of Minwogprom about the temporary cessation of coal removal to heat stations, the increase in debt on wages for coal workers, and the underfunding of the industry. As a result, the draft regulation proposes recommending the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2006 to foresee an increase in the financing of the coal sector from the General Fund in the second half of the year to the extent of underfunding from the Special Fund in the first half of the sixth and under-financing in the fifth year and to take other measures aimed at preventing the increase in debt from miners. A particularly topical question for today is the approach of miner's Day. It was Victor Ivanovich's question to the previous reporter that we had to put this out, and this question is also reflected in the draft of our decision. The Committee also believes that it is necessary to entrust the Ministry of Fuel and Energy with measures to conduct coal industry calculations for the coal TEC. As we look at this issue, we can't help but touch the current tariffs on energy resources and predict their level during the fall-winter period of the sixth to seventh years and the future perspective. The Committee believes that when the State Budget project is formed for 2007 it is necessary to identify mechanisms to address the problems that arise when external factors change, the price of the tariffs on heat transmission are set to stabilize during the whole heating season. In the event of an increase in tariffs imposed by objective factors, the State is obliged to develop mechanisms to compensate for losses to socially vulnerable groups. And this question has also been reflected in the draft decision that is proposed for your consideration. As national MPs, we should have information about the projected increase in electricity prices and fuel for the short and long term, envisioning mechanisms for their implementation, taking into account the payability of consumers, at least for a five-year period, to channel fiscal and tax policies in the adoption of relevant bills. That's why we think that the Cabinet of Ministers should give appropriate orders to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the NCRE for the development and approval in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the projected increase in electricity and fuel prices. The draft decree also contains other proposals and recommendations in the executive branch. You have the opportunity to read the full text of the draft decree given by the national MP. In closing, I would like to point out the following. The Cabinet of Ministers in due course approved an energy strategy for the period up to 2030, which was developed over six years. I think that we, on our part, should contribute as much as possible to its implementation. The Cabinet of Ministers should take maximum account of the status of strategies in the drafting of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 and the following years. I hope that in that case, we will finally move away from the state of permanent loading of holes, and we will be in a secure and unbreakable state of energy, regardless of the time of the year. One more question. All the suggestions made in my statement by the committee were unanimously accepted by the exception of one paragraph 7 which is proposed to create a Temporary Investigation Commission to study the situation that resulted from the provision of gas to Ukrainian consumers and the provision of import gas. I think none of us will deny that the gas supply situation requires careful study and constant control by the Supreme Council. I am convinced that such control should be exercised impartially, and the results of such control should be objective. Instead, it's for insistence. the introduction of the paragraph to the draft regulation is formulated in such a way that the conclusions of the committees proposed to create are actually known in advance. Thus, it can be argued that the creation of this commission has political implications. But this is my point of view, the committee's decision is reflected in the draft decision, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Today, questions are being addressed in an orderly manner for the Cabinet of Ministers, which is provided by the Rules as a report and an answer to questions, a committee’s report and decision-making. To make a decision, you are offered a draft regulation. So I'd like for your approval, do you have a question for him? Question to me or to whom? This procedure is clearly defined here, here it is voted. Please. In this document. Wait a minute. This document contains paragraph 7, which provides for a vote on the composition of the commission of inquiry, as reported by Mikola Volodymyrovich. And you've been given a separate draft of the commission itself. So we're going to vote first on this document, and if it's accepted in this paper, then we're going to vote separately on the commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u130	Please. Just a minute. Is this your procedure or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u131	Oh, the offer. Then let's do it. Draft ruling on the basis, I vote, and then the motion for a ruling. It is based on a draft regulation on information from the Ministry of Fuels, where information is taken into account and other considerations are expressed. Based on the base. [[12:28:27]] For 249 On the basis of the decision taken. Please, Kravchenka. Puppy, I'm sorry. Pussy from the spot, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u132	Alexei Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear friends, I certainly support this decision, but I would like to ask you to support the amendment to paragraph 7 that we are proposing with you to create this commission. Personally, as the head of the Housing and Utilities Subcommittee, I am deeply interested in and concerned about the problems that arise between a gas supplier such as Gazteplo, which is the child structure of the “GazUkrain” trading house, and the housing and utility industries, first of all, of heat. I'm convinced that there's a dictatorship going on and there's an attempt to hide such a dictatorship, and I'd say privatization of these enterprises. So I would like not only to include factions on this committee, but also to include other representatives of the committees. I mean, add to paragraph 7 to make proposals to the factions and committees of the Supreme Council for the personal composition of the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u133	Please, you name it, or whoever you're suggesting, let us vote here. Let's put it in the context. Please. One. The second thing. The next commission, if it's created, it can involve anyone it thinks is necessary for them to work together. But if there is such a proposal when we consider this question, not the seventh paragraph, but the question of the commission itself, then we will consider your proposal. Is there still a need? Cuckoo insists. We'll vote now. Then tell him not to ask, and I will not give. Hookba took the floor. Because I think there's no one else.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u134	Dear reporter, Kukob, faction of the Regions, Poltawa. I have a question to both Mr. Secretary and the committee: the cost of local gas production is $20-25 and the gas was still going to the population. Why is this price for the population and for the budget now? That's the first one. Second, why does the cost of gas from local producers include production standards, capital repairs, and all their needs? That's not right, it should be included in profit. And in Poltavska, the cost of gas is 120 dollars. Then why are we fooling people? And the second is the proposal that the prepayment should be made in the budget area prior to the gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u135	Anatoly Tikhovitch, since I am not a reporter for this question, I will not answer it and it has sounded today. So you're worried about the state of affairs in this area, but you can go up to the minister individually and he'll answer you. We're done with the question, and I'm asking because the decision is being amended, and you're asking questions. I'm asking you to follow procedure. So in general, I'm putting this draft ruling to a vote as a ruling. [[12:32:29]] For 256 The MPs supported this document. Since the seventh paragraph has voted to create a commission and the name of your head has already been voted upon, you have in your hands a decree on the commission itself: the deputy head of Sovkovic, the secretary of the Golub, the members of the committee Večerko, Zuravko, Kirichenko, Korz, Lukyanov, Marmazov, Rudzikowski, Sandler. Any more suggestions? You were talking to someone from the subcommittee. None. Then I put this project on the ground first. Puppy's gonna do it. With Kucherenko on the ground. Please. [[12:33:30]] For 249 Named Kucherenko. Mikola Volodymyrovich says that there is no proportional representation here from the faction envisaged by the Rules. So I'm proposing a faction and the head of the commission is going to take this into account, make a candidate, and we're voting on it as part of a committee if that's what it takes and wanting to work in this warehouse to ensure a proportional representation. But since the question, as I understand it, is adopted as an urgent matter, the commission must be formed. That's one thing. And I would ask that in the seventh paragraph we write down the term of the Temporary Commission not a year, but by the new year, let's say, four months, then it will be. Please, what are some of the reasons for this? I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u136	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, I propose that paragraph six be supplemented by the following: “The Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Property Fund”. I explain that the State Property Fund is now completing NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's inventory and fraud and its informational participation in the commission's work will be more obvious than appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u137	I don't deny it at all. I think we'll support this proposal. I'm about the term, four months is enough, I think. A little? Alexandrovska. Look where the light's on. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u138	Alexander Alexandrovich, four months is not enough why? After all, we are not only looking at how the New Year will be filled with gas storage and pricing and so on. There will be price harmonization next year, the conclusion of contracts next year. This process is ongoing, and we need at least one year of time. The new Government will see what policies are taking place during the year. I understand that four months is too small. For example, I would like to set a year so that we can see how these gas issues are handled over the course of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u139	Dear friends, committee of questions. Its function is also to monitor these issues. When the reason for making such a decision was the appropriate information that was discussed in the documents, then I simply ask you, well, for a maximum of six months, to find out all the questions and remove the problem. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In general. For six months. [[12:36:45]] For 246 Decision taken. 246 deputies voted. And now I have instead of announcing what I have to find out with you: two factions -- the Party of Regions and the Communists -- are asking for a break for half an hour. But we do have a rule in the Rules, if they can make a statement of some kind, not take a break, but give them a chance. If you don't mind, let's go this way. Is there no objection? Then please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u140	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last night, it was known that not only the Supreme Council and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine worked. From Odessa came very disturbing information. This is about the criminal cynical beating of people. I think you know that the Odessa City Council, headed by a well - known Democrat in paws and our Ukrainian Edward Gurwicz, has decided to transfer, read, the destruction of a series of monuments that are of national significance. Among them are the monuments of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin and the heroes of Potemkin. So we decided to remove from Ukraine's biography a part of our history, whatever it was, and who it wasn't. Under cover of night, the modern - day Odessa In order to be more convincing, they brought to the scene a special unit of militia headed by the deputy chief of police. When representatives of the Ukrainian Company, veterans, women, young people tried to express their views on the actions of nighties, and tried to stop this Middle Ages from happening, they beat people with blood, twisted their hands, pulled people by their hair. Some of the people sought medical help. That is, Odessa’s leadership, along with the valiant omonics, took another step toward turning Ukraine into a police state. Ukraine's Company, the Communist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine strongly condemns these crimes and requires the Attorney General's Office to investigate thoroughly the fact that people have been beaten and the perpetrators are brought to justice. Fascism won't go away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-03-m0.u141	We take this statement into account and give a protocol commission to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General to find out the circumstances of the case and report to us in writing or oral form, the Supreme Council has been informed. I'm adjourning the morning session. I'm calling it a break until 4:00. Thank you.
