ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:04:39]] A 401 national MP was registered in the session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Kravczuk Leonid Makarovich, first president. Let's welcome Leonid Makarovich and wish us fruitful success. Today is also the birthday of our colleagues Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich and Pisarenko Anatoly Grigorovich. Let's welcome all our colleagues Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich and Pisarenko Anatolia Grigorovovich. Let's welcome all our colleagues on their birthdays. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Resnik Igor Josephovich into the membership of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the meeting of the Conciliation Council has just ended. We discussed the draft calendar of meetings for January 10-13, approved it, and decided at 12:30 to hear about the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the provision of energy and the causes of the conflict and the consequences of the settlement of relations in gas and spheres between Ukraine and Russia on the basis of the corresponding Agreement of January 4 of this year. In this regard, respected colleagues are invited to attend the morning session of the Government Day to consider the short version. To consider each question, take one hour so that at 12: 30 a.m., we can consider the following question. No warning? Therefore, the issue of “On the state of the disease of the population of Ukraine on infectious diseases and measures to reduce it” is under consideration. This is the time limit for consideration: from the Cabinet of Ministers report to 15 minutes, answers to questions written and directly from the National Deputies to 15 minutes, statements from the Committee to 7 minutes, to take the rest of the time to discuss the matter. Similarly, consider the second question “On compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine for quality education in rural areas”. No warning? It's settled. From the government, please. First Deputy Minister of Health of the Coastal Health, Sergey Petrovich. Please, in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Combating infectious and parasitic diseases is a common problem for all nations of the world. This is primarily due to the global spread, the high rates of death, the deterioration of demographic indicators, and the great economic downturn. It is undeniable that infectious diseases always pose a threat to the economy and social well - being. That's why one of the most important components of national security in any state is epidemic well-being. Moreover, in today’s world the situation is compounded by the emergence of new high - tech dangerous diseases. Over the last 25 years alone, more than 30 of these diseases have emerged, including: HlV infection, fever, cow fever, avian flu. As early as 1995, WHO Director General stressed: “We are on the verge of a global crisis in the field of infectious diseases, and no country in the world can afford to ignore this threat.” Today, avian influenza is such a threat that it can cause a pandemic of influenza among humans. The epidemic of avian influenza in the world is rapidly getting worse. Recently, you know, there have been fatalities from avian influenza among people in neighbouring Turkey. This is already a very unfavourable forecast for the possibility of mass disease among humans. Considering that we have avian influenza among birds in our territory, this is also a serious threat to Ukraine. Thus, taking into account this forecast as well as the present level of infectious disease, the effects of the factors that shape it can be described as a complex and stressful situation in Ukraine. Every year we register about 10 million. Infectious diseases, 95 percent of which are influenza and acute respiratory infections. Unfortunately, it's about 15,000. Cases end in the death of people. Today, the most dangerous infectious disease for Ukraine is tuberculosis. In the last decade, it has doubled its rate and its mortality has tripled. In Ukraine, about 35,000 are found each year. patients with this infection. The average disease is 80 cases per 100,000. Population, and in particular regions, these figures are even higher. The main reasons for this situation are the inadequate living and nutrition conditions of a large part of the population, the increase in the number of socially decongested persons, the lack of social support for tuberculosis patients, the interruption of treatment that forms resistant to drugs as inducers, and, unfortunately, the legal obligation to treat TB is not fully regulated. Particularly acute is the problem of tuberculosis in the penitentiary system, where disease among convicted persons is 34 times higher than the average in Ukraine. The places of deprivation have become the hubs of real epidemic danger. Experts estimate that the country’s annual economic damage to the infection exceeds two billion dollars. Another real danger is the HIV-AIDS epidemic. During the years of this epidemic, 86,000 have been registered in Ukraine. HlV-positive people. Unfortunately, 7.3,000 of them have already died. AIDS is estimated at 13,000. persons. In addition, since 2000, there has been a fivefold increase in the number of patients with combined tuberculosis and HIV called HIV-associated tuberculosis in Ukraine. As a result, the development of the tuberculosis and AIDS epidemic requires the immediate mobilization of society’s efforts. Other infectious diseases reported in Ukraine are acute intestinal infections and viral hepatitis. Over the past 10 years, we have recorded more than 400 outbreaks of acute respiratory infections, which have affected nearly 20,000 people. The biggest outbreaks were in Odessa and Kiev. viruses in the city where dysentery occurred. These flashes were all localized, the necessary anti - epidemic measures were taken to prevent further spread. Although acute intestinal infections have been eradicated in recent years, the risk of outbreaks and the spread of diseases remains too high as an example. This is due first of all to the poor health status of the population, to the problems of providing the population with drinking water of guaranteed quality, while we demonstrate that every fifth test is bacteriologically dangerous; the emergency of most water supply and sewage networks, and in rural areas it has already become a real disaster. The presence of these factors creates an extremely unfavourable epidemic situation that requires much more attention from local authorities to the condition of high - risk objects. It should be noted that over the past 10 years we have had a significant, almost eightfold reduction in the disease to viral hepatitis. However, the situation with this pathology is precisely defined by the words of the Baranova Academy: “Better than it was, but worse than it was necessary.” The large range of viruses, the wide distribution of viruses, the various mechanisms of infection, are causing the problem of viral hepatitis beyond the limits of the medical problem. Economic damage from hepatitis A alone exceeds a hundred million dollars a year. As far as viral hepatitis B is concerned, at the rate of increase and prevalence in the world, this disease is much greater than AIDS and tuberculosis. In Ukraine we register about 5,000 cases each year, but the real figures are much higher. The risk of parenteral infection is increasing due to private dental, cosmetics, hairdressers. There is also a high risk of spreading this infection among risk groups, including drug addicts. In such a situation, vaccination comes first in the prevention of this disease. Up to 11 percent of children were vaccinated against hepatitis B by 2001. The introduction of the immuno-prevention program has allowed this level to reach 95%, if we continue to maintain this amount of seizure, the situation of hepatitis B will be effectively controlled. Respectable national deputies, systems of control and prevention need, so-called, especially dangerous and natural-fire infections: tolerance, matches, leptospirosis and others. We register about 800 cases of leptospirosis each year. In view of the fact that, and in view of this, there has been concern that in recent years there has been a virtually slowdown in the fight against arsenic rodents, which are the main source of this cause. I would like to point out that most of these infections can become massive and only because of the constant, daily work can keep the disease level stable and relatively low. As a bonus, there should also be a steady decline in the level of general population disease in infectious diseases without influenza and acute respiratory infections. And this decline is significant, it's reaching almost 25% in the last 10 years. Undoubtedly, the World Health Organization’s certification as polio - free territory is an achievement in the fight against infectious diseases. Today, Ukraine is implementing a similar root - disposal program. This has now allowed the disease to be reduced to the levels of European countries. In fact, the Ukrainian experience of implementing this program has been defined by WHO experts as one of the most successful in the world. Another example of effective anti-epidemic measures would like to highlight the implementation of population immunoprophylactic programmes. Thanks to this program, since the year 2000, we have provided 90 - 95 percent coverage for the infections carried out by mandatory clampings. To date, we are carrying out mandatory vaccinations against 9 infections, and since 2006, we have imposed mandatory vaccination against children against another infection, a gamephilic infection, and already in the 2006 budget, the corresponding funds are foreseen. It should be noted that a fairly large range of new vaccines have been created and used in the world, including rotavirus infection, hepatitis A, chicken pox and so on. We're also planning to introduce vaccination against these infections in the development of the 2007-2011 immuno-prevention programme. Honorable national MPs, the issue under consideration today, are an integral part of government activity. Since independence, a legislative framework has been established in Ukraine to ensure adequate sanitation and epidemic well - being. To address the most problematic issues, the government has developed and implemented a range of relevant programs. The total amount of funding for these programs in 2005 amounted to about 800 million dollars. For 2006, funding of these programs is projected to increase to one billion dollars, an increase of 25 percent. And this refers to programs like the State Sanitary Epidemic Surveillance and. measures, measures to combat tuberculosis and AIDS, blood tests on hepatitis “B” and “C” and a number of others. I would like to draw attention to one-and-seven-tenths increase in funding for the 2006 immuno-prevention programme. In addition, we believe that it will greatly contribute to the improvement of the epidemic situation adopted last March by the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Water of Ukraine, which is estimated at over 5 billion dollars for the years 2006-2020. One of the most important measures to prevent epidemics is the sanitary protection of the country’s territory and the well - established epidemic surveillance system. These procedures are now in full harmony with international health regulations in Ukraine and are provided with appropriate structures. Ladies and gentlemen, we know and understand the problems that exist in the fight against infectious diseases, and we focus our efforts on overcoming them. And to these problems that need to be solved, we're dealing with this -- and the construction of modern infectious habitats, and reconstruction, the resupply of the laboratory base, and the development of domestic vaccines, immunobiological drugs and specific drugs, the development of scientific research from epidemiology and the prevention of infectious diseases, the preparation of qualified personnel and a number of others. The solutions to these problems are seen in the adoption of appropriate targeted programs, which will be designed and implemented by our own, mostly our next activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a separate look at the epidemiological situation associated with avian influenza. We have an episode of avian flu in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. On this point, the President’s Decree was issued, a government that adopted an appropriate comprehensive plan, with over 15 million dollars allocated for implementation. With a view to preventing the spread in the country and preventing the spread of avian influenza, appropriate anti - epidemiological and anti - epizootic measures continue to be carried out in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the surrounding areas. All people who have had contact with the dead bird, taken into medical care, are given thermometry twice a day. We have conducted a large-scale vaccination of the population living in this region and over 120,000 people have been vaccinated against human influenza. In Crimea and nearby areas, day - to - day monitoring is conducted. In connection with the cases of a reported complication in Turkey, we have been given appropriate instructions to strengthen the measures both at the border and in relation to those who come from Turkey and who are being held there. I repeat that we have developed and implemented an appropriate comprehensive plan for today, we believe that this issue is being controlled. But it's dangerous enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question. Now, if you'll just give me a written question, let's answer it. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the questions. Do you have a letter there? Please read the questions and answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u4	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood The provisions of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases are being implemented in the area of the creation of sanitary and quarantine units. I would like to point out that we have a system for protecting areas from pollution and the spread of particularly dangerous diseases and the correspondingly designed and functioning health-care facilities, 91 of them, are located in the cities most likely to pose a threat. They're international airports, they're seaports, they're river ports, they're intensive automobiles and they're railway crossings. As I have already noted, 91 of them work closely with other structures that perform similar functions on the border. It's also quarantined veterinary medicine units, it's also quarantined plant quarantine units, including customs officers, border guards, and it's dealt with, and it's consistent with international health rules, these measures, so that's why we have this system working today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u5	Jaroslav Suhi, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions, faction “Regions of Ukraine”. Please tell me, I have two short questions, first of all, that the Party of the Regions has been looking at and looking at, first of all, at the problem of socio-economic nature. It's about the direct dependence that we're seeing right now, the level of poverty and the level of infectious diseases, especially after the orange events. You yourself said that there was a double increase in tuberculosis among the reasons you called social problems. So two questions. First. As your chief infection, are you satisfied with the funding of the State TB Programme? And because of the increase in the number of TB patients. Please tell me if you're satisfied with the wages of an infectious doctor. And the second question. Please tell me, what support do you need at the level of the Supreme Council at the legislative level in terms of legislation to combat infectious diseases? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u7	Indeed, the questions you have raised are quite relevant and need to be resolved. With regard to the status of financing measures to combat tuberculosis, they are not yet sufficient. I've already said that only direct damage from this disease is 2 billion. Money for a year, so there should be adequate measures to stabilize the situation, we're not talking about getting rid of it anytime soon, it's an infection that's quite inert and it needs a long-term struggle with it. So today the issue of fairly substantial increase and funding is being addressed. We're preparing the 2007-2001 programme, a new one that envisions a significant increase in funding for the measures involved. But really this disease is largely dependent on social conditions, it's a social condition. So against the backdrop of increased funding for direct measures to combat tuberculosis, it will have a major impact on the disease and social welfare of our population. As far as wages are concerned, it's not only low in infective doctors and physiarists, it's actually pretty low in all doctors today. So this is really a problem and it needs to be solved. I think the government is paying attention, the wage is rising, maybe not as we wanted it to be, fast, but there's a positive dynamic about it. And with regard to necessary assistance, I will point out that it is primarily necessary to regulate the issue of hospitalization and treatment of the sick. Unfortunately, we have quite a lot of people called socially unadapted, who don't always endure a treatment that they don't always want to be hospitalized. That's why this issue, already the issue of the safety of our citizens as a whole, so the relevant law is now being worked out, including in the Supreme Council, namely the adoption of this law, I think it can make a significant difference in the treatment of the sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u8	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u9	A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Does Ukraine have measures to increase the level of specific prevention that it is? What level of vaccination coverage will be achieved in the near and future periods? I've already touched on a few of these in my presentation, and we're planning to increase the level of specific prevention, and it's very important. I've already told you that we are now conducting vaccinations for nine infections: diphtheria. Polyemylitis, tuberculosis, viral hepatitis B, measles, epidemic parotititis, redhead. Since this year, we've started vaccination against hemophilic infection, which will allow us to significantly reduce children's severe diseases first, meningitis, severe pneumonia, and on, in the 2007-2011 program, we plan to introduce vaccination against. viral infection, anti-veterinary smallpox, and if the calculation, the financial possibility, we're going to be inoculating hepatitis A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u10	Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u11	Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction. Dear reporter, please tell us that with the introduction of the emergency situation in Crimea, 15 million dollars have been allocated to deal with the crisis. It's a drop in the sea. And if it had been before, the government officials knew that the flu was moving across our borders, Turkey, Romania. And the flu didn't start with a bird complex, but it started with a peasant courtyard. If we were to do the vaccination, we could prevent these 15 million, and what we've now allocated, I think it's a drop in the sea to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. The extraordinary situation in the Crimea, when it was introduced, it introduced an appropriate situation that arose in those population locations that were dealt with in the relevant regulation and the law, those funds that were allocated to specific measures that were taken there, were actually enough and they were actually used adequately and carried out. With regard to the warning of this situation, it is virtually impossible in real life, the source and vectors of the avian flu are wild birds. Crime is a very high-risk area for this disease. The migratory pathways of the wild birds lie precisely through our territory to the greatest extent and precisely from the greybirds, and all these places are places and resting of these birds, and in fact there's a very large number of birds left to winter and they're constantly, they're practically, most of them from our research, they're carrying this virus and they're constantly questioning this situation. So what is possible and the risk of such a situation, we predicted, really, it was at the beginning of the year when this situation had not yet reached that extent. As far as vaccination is concerned, I understand that vaccination is against the virus, against avian influenza. Well, I can't quite answer that question, vaccination, specific vaccination, a specific vaccine for humans doesn't exist. So we did a large-scale vaccination of people against normal human influenza, which allows us to reduce the number of diseases and thus weaken the body, respectively, and the infection of humans. As far as the need for bird vaccination is concerned, even among scientists involved in this problem, in the Veterinary Service and in scientists in the international community, it is the International Against. Bureau, there's no clear idea on this point, some say that it's necessary to inject, some say that there's no point in vaccination. So this is actually a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u13	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u14	The party's deputy faction "The One Ukraine". What measures are being taken by the government to warn and spread infectious diseases in children’s homes, such as children’s milk kitchens, education facilities, and children’s recreation facilities? According to the 2005 statistical report, more than 440 children’s dairy kitchens functioned in Ukraine. The children of the first year of life are provided with these children’s milk kitchens, mainly from low - income families. All dairy kitchens are subject to increased sanitary and epidemiological supervision as high-risk objects. To address the issue of first - year nutrition, the government has prepared a project for the State Programme for the Development of Food Production for Children. In addition, the State Programme for Recreation and Recovery of Children for the period to 2008 and the Ministry of Health has been commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has adopted the relevant decision, has been entrusted with the supervision of the organization and the supervision of the safety of children in health institutions. With the aim of warning the rise in children's pathology of the ventricular tract, as well as of the warning of outbreaks of acute intestinal infections by Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 1591 of 22 November 2004 on the approval of food standards in educational and health institutions, is being prepared and implemented; it is the order of the diet of children in educational and health institutions. This issue is constantly under control, as it is of vital importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u15	Yuri Orobec, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u16	Dear reporter! The previous minister of health, our colleague, Mikola Polishchuk, spoke of the use of inefficient and expensive drugs to date regarding the treatment of various forms of tuberculosis and suggested ways to solve the problem. Please tell us how these positions are being implemented by the current government, and has there been any effective new means that would allow for a dramatic change in the epidemiological situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u17	Thank you. The medicines that are used to treat tuberculosis are “generally” all known and their list is not so great and very large. This is, well, a maximum of one and a half dozen medicines used to treat patients with tuberculosis. Therefore, most of them are produced outside Ukraine, although a large part is also produced within Ukraine. With regard to the tactics and strategies of treatment, and with regard to the treatment of TB patients. So, well, in fact, it does not undergo such a drastic change and new treatments for TB patients can only be used when it is found that the drugs we use are ineffective, as I said, a very large number of people have developed this inducer that is resistant to a fairly wide range of drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u18	Yes, please, a written question, if you have one there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u19	Questions of the Committee on Science and Education. What measures will be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in the prevention of hepatitis during the current year, including children and adolescents? I've already pointed out that hepatitis is, in fact, problem number one, and this is particularly true of hepatitis A and B. So far, we've been inoculating first-aged children and we've been inoculating this vaccine for four years, as well as vaccination of the largest contingents, the so-called contingents, the risk. Since this year, we've been implementing a calendar, and we're going to be inoculating teenagers between the ages of 12 and 13, and we're going to be expanding the vaccination rates for other contingents. And we're going to be actively inoculating hepatitis B in the coming years. And I've already told you about introducing vaccination against hepatitis A into the vaccination calendar. What we're going to do is we're going to vaccinate children against hepatitis A, it's a practical question for today, and we're going to deal with questions and we're doing calculations on how and what our financial capabilities are, in order to expand the indicators to other age categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u20	And last question, Basil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u21	Calinchuk, Clothing, Faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Sergey Petrovich! Southern areas of the Odessa region have no local water sources. 170 locations are partially or completely supplied with imported water. In general, more than 1,200 people in our country use imported, not quality drinking water. I have this question to you on behalf of the faction, whether it's a question at the national level to develop an environmental protection programme and establish a sanitation area throughout the Dniester, Dnipro and others. And is it planned to be conducted by professional, scientific institutes to develop new technologies that can provide a warning against water pollution. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u22	Thank you. Indeed, the water supply problem in general is a very acute problem for Ukraine, and this problem is particularly acute in the southern regions of Ukraine. And it's not just the Odessa region, it's also the Herson region, the Mikolai district, the Zaporozhye region, which are the coastal areas, especially. In fact, the sources that are there are underground sources, which are, yes, softly speaking, not entirely suitable for drinking. So a large number of population points are actually supplied with water on imported water in fact. I have already said that the Supreme Council has adopted the Ukrainian Drinking Water Act, with funding of about 5 billion dollars, which is intended to significantly improve the water supply of the population of Ukraine, including, above all, these regions, which, if we can say so, are waterless. As far as new developments are concerned, such developments are ongoing, such technologies exist, and they are quite effective, but this is a replacement of the existing water production and dehydration technologies. It takes a lot of money and time to replace them, because really most of our facilities, as water is polluted, are actually designed for bacterial pollution, were built 30-40 years ago, and they're not effective against viral contamination. Thus, the issue is constantly in sight and the best possible measures are being taken to ensure that the population of Ukraine receives safe water in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u23	Thank you. The time spent in reporting and answering questions to Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor is over. Please have a seat. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, up to seven minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u24	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition block “No!” [[united]] In our view, the subject of infectious disease and measures to reduce it should be entirely different today. Today, in the session room, the authorities had to demonstrate why the issue of infectious disease is under consideration, what is the state’s current annual disease of 12 million. Citizens. In fact, 1 out of every 4 citizens every year suffers from infectious disease. What are the economic losses, and what are the risks? What is 15 grand to the state? Dead from infectious diseases. What is the increase in mortality, the high rate, and why did it grow 2.5 times today? And, with all due respect, in fact, to Mr. Coastan's Chief State Medic, the authorities should report here today from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Today, the Vice Prime Minister, who is responsible for this cluster of questions, has to take, in his reply, as an ingredient, a speech by a health doctor. Because today, medicine is not responsible for the condition of infectious disease. Work had to be done in very complex socio-economic conditions of the transition period and legal nihilism, when changes in ownership and the introduction of market economy elements were accompanied by a chronic deficit in health financing, a decline in its material and technical base and laboratory-tooling. During the years of independence, no bacteriological or other laboratory has been built for health care institutions, no hospital for infection. The modest costs were allocated to the acquisition of modern laboratory equipment for diagnostics and special vehicles for the testing of outbreaks of infectious diseases, hospitalization of patients with infections, disease, and disinfection. The efforts of executive authorities to protect health should be assessed by objective indicators expressed in digital values. If the results of public policies in the field of infectious diseases are assessed from these points, they can be described as failures. The statistics on levels and prevalence in Ukraine of the major groups of infectious diseases, which are almost in order above the similar figures of the European Union, to which we are so strongly urged by the leadership of the State, in fact give an answer as to why the doors of the European Union are closed. The registration of 55 zoological forms of infectious diseases, many of which have not been found in Europe for decades at all, and they are isolated. Such experiences are considered to be extraordinary events, including unusual pneumonia. Today, there is no problem with avian influenza. Today, in Ukraine, problems include typhoid, diphtheria, rubella, leptosporosis, matches, brucellosis, pedophiles, and many others. What is the value of 438 outbreaks of official infectious diseases in 10 years? We've already forgotten what a rotovirus infection in Odessa is, what is a hepatitis in Sucholandsk, what is salmonellasis in Tulkín. These are all the diseases that completely deny the prestige of Ukraine in the international arena. Despite this, the weight of the patients who were registered during the outbreaks is small among their total number. The fact that there is an outbreak raises considerable social interest and social tension, and the localization of such flashes requires significant unforeseen financial costs. Today, we are talking about what diseases are typical of Ukraine. Hepatitis is one of them. Economic damage from this disease accounts for 100 million dollars a year. That's right. At the level of disease, Ukraine has one of the leading places and weights in Europe for these diseases is 30 percent. The worst thing about this disease is that people have a reliable indicator of fecal pollution of the environment, especially drinking water and food. There are other forms of hepatitis. But under this criterion, we are also far from the countries of the civilized world, where, in cases of hospitalization, the patient is paid a considerable amount of compensation. In our circumstances, in the absence of health insurance mechanisms, no hospital budget can bear such costs to compensate patients for their damage. In this regard, the lack of modern sterilization equipment, for disinfection, in front of large hospitals is alarming. I would like to point out that we already have an example where the purchase of domestic disinfectants, which have already been referred to by the Health Committee, can make compensation and economics up to 160 million a year. That's right. Yet the government’s reactions to today are not yet there. The world is returning to sterilization and disinfection by introducing all new methods and means of carrying them out. No treatment facility today should exist without a block of sterilization and disinfection. According to the World Health Organization, if health spending is less than five percent of the gross domestic product, such a health system is unable to perform its functions. We do not have more than three percent of our health care. That's why, in conditions of chronic underfunding, it's extremely important to implement a software-based method of budgeting and allocation of expenditure for the most important priority programmes. In fact, there's only one program: The state programme for the construction of modern infectious hospitals for 2004-2010 has a specific amount of funding, and it is large enough, amounting to more than 302 million. But in 2005, Lvov’s example illustrates the state’s attitude toward this program. Only 50,000 dollars are allocated for the design of a children’s institution. In such circumstances, I would like to say that doctors and other health - care professionals who have dedicated their lives to preventive medicine and, in spite of the enormous difficulties, conscientiously perform their duties to ensure epidemic well - being and deserve exclusive gratitude and respect. I think that this Supreme Council regulation under constitutional reform will be necessary to implement the government and change the situation of infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please show the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. We've got 15 minutes left for the show. If there is no objection, we will follow established practice: first, the factions will speak. Please, Michael the Great. Prepare from the Shevchuk faction. Sergey Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u26	Mikhail Sithina, Carpathians, People's Party faction, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In the Constitution of Ukraine, health and human life are declared to be the highest social value. While appreciating the situation of infectious diseases that are now more than 50 different forms of infection in Ukraine, it is evident that Ukraine is not ready to overcome their manifestations. These are real threats to the health of the nation, the economy, and the international image of the state. Each year about 10 million people suffer from these diseases. The economic cost of these diseases is over two billion dollars a year in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! When we talk about tourism in Ukraine, for example, we should ask ourselves if someone would like to go and enjoy a wonderful nature with a view to historical and cultural monuments where it is readily possible to pick up typhoid, dysentery, malaria, or hepatitis, not to mention banal acute intestinal infections, in a country where there is a constant increase in the risk of infection by tuberculosis, leptospirosis, and Siberia. There are many questions that Ukraine today can counter this infectious flood, or are capable of infectious, district, district hospitals, wards to counteract it. And we know what state they're in right now, the answer isn't our benefit, because these institutions are more likely to function as insulators. The situation with the lab services is catastrophic. It turns out that there is nothing to counter infectious diseases in Ukraine, and then there are no deaths from them. The People's Party faction warns that in order to successfully control the vast army of pathogens, the government must provide a system of legislative, organizational, preventive measures, that is, the implementation of state policy in this area in full measure. So the faction of the People's Party makes specific proposals for order in the field of resistance to the spread of infectious diseases, first of all. We need to get out of control of the health-epidemiological service of infectionists, because there are completely different criteria for assessing their work. It is not time to make these services independent and modernize them. Dear colleagues! You can't close your eyes to the social status of an infectious doctor anymore, because those 15 percent of the wages they get don't cover the risk of infection. With the rest, the use of microorganisms as weapons should always be kept in mind, and the retraining of stationaries in the outbreak of infection is far less likely to save the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u27	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u28	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, members of the government, the Constitution of our State stipulates that the State itself creates conditions for the safe functioning of its citizens and a healthy environment. And getting an infectious disease is the indicator of how fully the state performs this important function. I would like to remind you that in the last year, about nine months, Ukraine's Chief State Medic and the main structure responsible for this important issue were practically headless. For the time being, the office of the Chief State Veterinary Inspector is not filled, nor is there anyone to ask. That is, even staff decisions have not been taken seriously in recent times. Every year, between 10 million and 12 million people suffer from infectious diseases. Ukrainians, 15,000 of them. He's dying. I mean, I'd like you to think about the consequences of this war in Afghanistan during the peace period, 15 grand. the dead Ukrainians. And so today's report should not only have been the Chief State Medic, just appointed, but obviously the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Ukraine. Because the high rate of mortality from infectious diseases has grown 2.4 times in ten years. It is the public service that is responsible for the vaccination of the population, its volume, its selection and purchase of quality vaccines, and not the lack of immunogenic vaccines. It is especially sad when the quality of the vaccine decreases as a result of the deterioration of conditions, simply storing them, and it is a waste of money. There was a unique evidence of centralized vaccine procurement in the epidemic process, not the day before. When we talk about the direction of the epidemic process, we should remember that it is not the same in this process. At the level of “A” viral hepatitis, Ukraine occupies one of the dense places among the European states. I would like to remind you that the water supply in our territory per hectare of Ukrainian territory is the highest, which is almost 20 percent, 20 meters cubic, which is 3-4 times higher than in Russia and Belarus. It's no different than the shame of Ukrainian medicine is the high level of infection with viral hepatitis B and C due to the inadequacy of sterilization of surgical equipment, syringes or donor blood. The annual funding of sanitation facilities for proper laboratory diagnostics is only 20 percent of what is needed. All of this requires a thorough review of the approaches of state institutions to this important issue, as well as the approval of the national programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u29	Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u30	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we should consider today question number one the fact that Ukraine has become a parliamentary-presidential republic and focus on how to shift those powers that belong to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to its specific capabilities to its specific actions. And as for the question that's being discussed, I'd like to say that. No matter how beautiful the government’s intentions and declarations regarding health care are, as one of the priorities of public policy, evidence shows that they are clearly inopportune with the realities of life. Not once since 2001 has the expenditure of Ukraine’s consolidated and state health budget been fully funded. Health funding in the budget is about 3.5 percent of GDP, and according to the World Health Organization, if health spending is less than 5 percent of GDP, such a health system is unable to perform its functions, which we are witnessing with you. The average monthly medical salary for 2005 was one of the smallest in the nation’s population, accounting for about 500 dollars. At the same time, the Ukrainian Law, the basis for Ukrainian legislation, “On health protection”, article 77 provides that the average wage and salary levels set at public health establishments are not lower than the average wage of industrial workers, which today is 952. That is, the government does not comply with this rule of law, but more importantly, the Ukrainian Budget Act 2006 has suspended this rule of law. These are the words and things. And I would like to say more about this, the very important condition of preserving the health of the population is the provision of clean drinking water. There's a separate program called Drinking Water. And at the time of the adoption of the state budget, the government should also report on the state of implementation of state programmes and, in particular, on the implementation of this programme. But all 23 public health programs approved by the President or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine already have control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, so far neither the Supreme Council of Ukraine nor the Constitutional Court of Ukraine have responded to these differences. And finally, I'd like to say that. This is the kind of medicine that is a family stain on the face of the socio-political, economic system that has formed in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u31	Anatoly Frost, get ready for Bachelor's Tetian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u32	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, Volodymyr Litvina Block. Dear colleagues, in June of last year, the Government of Ukraine initiated the implementation of paragraph 41 of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “To meet people” in support of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's Ministry of Health and the President's Coordination Board of the country for the Control of Tuberculosis, on which the management of the Ministry of Health welcomed the implementation of this item to the Government of Ukraine and the President at an expanded meeting of the College of the Ministry of Health in 2005. The country's coordinating board of TB control is established in accordance with world standards based on openness and transparency and has to assume full responsibility for overcoming the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine. It also needs to replace the Inter-Agency Commission on TB, which has completely discredited itself for over a year, and it cannot represent Ukraine in relations with international agencies and donors, such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. However, despite the incomprehensible need for such an organ, the country’s Coordinating Council for the Control of Tuberculosis has failed to complete and is artificially braked. It is also surprising that the delay in the approval of the National Council for Coordination on Tuberculosis Control by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the attempts of the first Deputy Minister of Health Victor Vasilevski to resuscitate the interdisciplinary commission, which showed its inefficiency and inability to control the tuberculosis epidemic. The main reason for this activity was the failure of individual high officials to obtain a grant this year to combat the tuberculosis epidemic of some fifty million euros and the further spread of the tuberculosis epidemic in the country. I would like to ask the government, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, when it will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Coordinating Council for the Control of Tuberculosis, which, according to international standards, is responsible for combating the tuberculosis epidemic. I would also like to ask and point out that at the beginning of last year, the National Anti-Tuberculosis Programme, 2002-2004 and the first quarter of 2005, was audited by the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine. As well as foreign loans and grants for anti-tuberculosis measures in Ukraine. According to the Ministry of Health’s audit, the use of funds in breach of current legislation has been used for nearly 400 million dollars. There have been numerous violations and irregularities that took more than 40 pages to be listed in the test report. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u33	Yes, Bacheyeva, faction of the “Ukraine” region.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Who would have thought that at the edge of the 21st century, the main cause of death on Earth would be infection. Science believed that it had conquered infectious diseases forever. Now there's a risk that germs can take a rematch. Antibiotics have lost their impact on tuberculosis and pneumonia. Scientists fear medical catastrophes. In the past, medicine has declared that it is no longer necessary to be afraid of cholera or plague or scarlet fever or diphtheria. Now, infectives are alerting, and the victory has been announced temporarily. There are new strains of bacteria that have learned to destroy antibiotics and survive. On the microbial side, the law of large numbers. Let me give you an example. In eight hours, one microbe can multiply 16 million times. And the only one can be enough to take away some miraculous cure of its magical power. Infectious diseases now affect 17 million people each year, including 9 million children. Malaria, tuberculosis has returned to where they were, it seems, banished forever. Example. The outbreak of diphtheria in Ukraine and other CIS countries was in 1995. At present, more than one country is not considered safe in terms of infectious diseases. The reduction in health costs in a number of States, including Ukraine, has resulted in major economic and human losses. The poverty of more than a billion people, rapid urbanization and mass exodus of refugees contribute to the spread of infection. What, then, about the flu? Every 10 Europeans are infected with influenza every year. During the pandemic, this rate increases by threefold. Ten percent of the patients are infected with influenza, and 2 percent of the patients are dying. In my country, influenza and acute respiratory diseases account for about 95 per cent of all reported infectious diseases. In the overall morbidity of the population of Ukraine, infectious diseases account for 30 per cent. More than 10 million people are infected every year. Since the early 1990s, the mortality rate from infectious diseases in Ukraine has increased by 120 per cent. The direct economic losses associated with infections in our country amount to about 2 billion bracelets per year. I am convinced that each country should prepare a national action plan to combat the potential flu pandemic. And Ukraine is now simply required to be among the first. Regrettably, such an approach was not long ago common practice. The Ministry of Health does not offer a clear and deliberate reform system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues! Since time is running out, we still have four deputies. Who insists on motives, please, for reasons before the vote. Grigorovitch, one minute, please, of those who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u36	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Of course, it is sad that one minute’s motivation is to say what you would like to say on behalf of the faction. But there is no doubt that I would like to highlight, literally, three conceptual things. First. The problem with infectious diseases is the planetary problem. And the most effective response to these or other pandemics depends, first of all, on the state programs to be foreseen, and on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the executive, legislative authority. In view of this, I would like to note with pleasure that the 2006 budget, which I am grateful to my accepted colleagues, has allocated 3.6 percent of the gross domestic product to health care and, in particular, a substantial increase in the cost of the immunoprotection programme. At the same time, I would like to point out that today's condition of disease, particularly tuberculosis, which has grown somewhat, is not the situation that took place today, this year. A colleague who spoke to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u37	Yes, Hennaday Josephovich, then Carmazin. And then Rahansky, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A colleague of Frost stopped at the question that Ukraine was not using the capacity of international organizations to obtain grants to combat tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. Unfortunately, Ukraine is not applying for the International Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria for the third time. We're losing a lot of money. These are our shortcomings from the Ministry of Health. The second question. This question is related to the fact that the interdeputy commission for combating tuberculosis does not actually work. Half a year or so she doesn't get together, the question isn't discussed, it's turned into a dead end. And the third. This is the situation with the problems of tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone. Only those who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in fact, you promised that you would let the people speak too, because I have written down very serious problems. But I wanted to point out that the annual funding of sanitation institutions at 20 percent is a testimony to an extraordinary situation in financing this important direction. That's the first one. The other one. And from that point of view, we have to assign the government to redirect the funds and send them where they're going. The fact that workers in anti-tuberculosis institutions do not receive the benefits and compensation provided by legislation for harmful working conditions is also a contributing factor to the development of these diseases today. And the third and fourth thesis that I want to make. The decision that is now under preparation, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is not appropriate anywhere. For example, these categories are estimated here: “Many executive heads are not properly carried out.” - and so on. What is “many ”? What kind of decision is that?Oh, my God! It needs to be transformed into roots, coming out of a situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u41	Please, Anatoly Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, today the state has a wonderful legacy of sanatorium treatment. With this condition of disease, specialized sanatoriums now work with a filling of 10 to 15 percent. Why? The director of the Social Security Fund, Mishchenko, Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, has not yet resolved the issue of the distribution of travel to health care facilities, especially in Crimea. There is no travel in any district, district, social security fund. So the people in the first quarter won't be treated, the doctors don't work, their coworkers don't work, they don't have a job, they don't have a salary. You can't count on gas, you can't have electricity. They've come up with a travel tender. It's a feeder. For example, a private notary for the registration of contracts takes millions of dollars in two days. Which could be a tender for pregnant women, or rehabilitation wards, after a heart attack, stroke, diabetes, or a trip for children who are sick, especially those who are specialized.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. A draft Decision on information to the Cabinet on the condition of the disease on the condition of the population of Ukraine for infectious diseases and measures to reduce them has been prepared. [[Now, one minute.]] In this regard, dear colleagues, I would like to say that, in view of the change in the Constitution since January 1, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a responsible, principled approach to the preparation of relevant draft regulations in order to reflect the realities that are taking place in our lives in some areas or other. I'd like to ask now, we've just received an official edition to give each of the national MPs to each committee and to each faction to be guided by the basic law and to show an example of how it should be implemented and, in principle, monitored by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yeah, it's a draft decision. The project proposes the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of disease control for infectious diseases to be considered insufficient. Please write it down for 3 minutes. Three minutes of motive. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Mikhailo Rodionov, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u44	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Zibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u45	Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u46	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Cibenko Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would very much ask my colleagues to refer to the documents that we are preparing and the level of evaluation that is expressed during the performances. Because now I've listened very carefully, even the short lines of my colleagues who were motivated and I see. It is not even possible to appreciate the lack of such work. Because the reality is that this work, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on this subject can only be regarded as unsatisfactory. Moreover, the offer was made by Yuri Petrovich Solomatin at the time of his presentation. So a faction of Communists insists that this decision be taken with an unsatisfying assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u47	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize that the determination is extremely weak for Vladimir Mikhajlovich to publish it and show it to people today and talk about the rise in the level and role of the Supreme Council. It is not the work of the Government that should be stated, for it is the work of many governments there. Not this government in a few months, or a year later, has led to the fact that only 20 percent are in line with the devices and that the sanepidemic services are in line with their workload. This was not the government that led to this. It should be noted that the situation of infectious diseases in the population is dangerous and threatening to Ukraine’s national security. This is one of the threats that legislation provides. And what happens to the fight against tuberculosis in places where they're deprived of their will is absolutely terrible, because we're just multiplying those diseases by tuberculosis. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u49	Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, we must not fail to agree with Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin that since January 1st Parliament should be more responsible for the adoption of appropriate regulations, especially on the report or on the information of the government. In our view, this decree is extremely weak. It needs to be strengthened. We should consider the suggestions and comments made during the speeches of the national deputies. So I'm going to make an offer to rework it and accept it only after that in general. And now it can be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u51	Respectful national deputies, in view of the critical comments made to the draft decree, obviously we need to take them as a basis. Then determine how to evaluate the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, and then allow the committee to work on the proposals that have been made here. Regarding Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s remarks I'd like to say, honourable national deputies, that we're giving an evaluation not personally to the leaders, we're giving an evaluation to the institute. Because if we follow this democratic principle that we have, every six months, we're going to have a change of government, and no one is going to ask. That's why we're assessing the institution, the branch of power. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a registration number, on a basis. The first paragraph will be voted on separately. Except for the first point on the basis. Registration number 8672. Please vote. Based on the base. Except for the first point. For - 285. We took it as a foundation. Now, dear fellows, number one, number one. A proposal from the committee is put to the vote first. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers in the area of combating the disease of the population of Ukraine on infectious diseases is not considered sufficient. The second suggestion is to find work unsatisfactory. The vote first calls for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue to be considered insufficient. Please identify yourself, please identify yourself. For -132. The decision is not taken. There is a second proposal, the first item in this edition – the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of combating the disease of the population of Ukraine on infectious diseases is considered unsatisfactory. Please vote. To 233. We took it as a foundation. I ask the committee to finalize the project and submit it for consideration on Thursday for final adoption, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies. The factions, please. Yes, “Ukrainian Regions” - 50, Communists - 54, “Our Ukraine” - 0, National Party - 27, Block Timoshenko - 33, SPI - 19, National Block - 20, SPDU - 19, UNODC - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 4, “Only Ukraine” - 0, non-fractional - 6. The issue of compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on quality education in rural areas is under review. The rapporteur is Minister of Education and Science Stanislav Mikolayovich Nikolayenko. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky will be the co-reporter, please answer the questions in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Despite New Year’s and Christmas holidays, a difficult energy situation, Parliament is now considering meeting the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution for quality education in rural areas. This is one of the first questions of the new parliamentary year, which is a testimony to the understanding by the people's deputies of the importance of the educational process in the life of the State and our Ukrainian village. For as long as a century and a half ago, our wise countryman, an outstanding scientist and educator, Constantine Ushinsky, pointed out that there is nothing more important to the life of the country of reform than education reform. Nor will any judicial or land reform have the same reward as the support and development of the educational sphere. The government, the ministry, is concerned about the lack of quality of knowledge in rural schools, trade schools. A survey of knowledge conducted at the end of last year showed that the quality of learning in the village was lower than in urban schools to 20 percent. However, the difference between the level of knowledge between individual rural schools is more striking. There are groups where there are high levels, even higher levels than in the city, and there are educational institutions where the quality of knowledge is still low. The reasons are clear, the outdated material base, the lack of modern information support, the decline in human capacity, and the low social protection of teachers. These problems are at the heart of our ministry and government. Not knowing by chance the complexity of this problem, the President announced this year, a year in the village. Parliament's active support for this year's budget provides up to 10 billion dollars to support the village, including the social sphere by nearly 20 percent. By the way, I'm informing you, honourable national deputies, that in this year's budget, please look at the table, the cost of education will be about 33 billion dollars against 25.7 billion last year. Growth is plus 28 percent. If you take, say, 2004, it was only 18 billion, or 55 percent, against 2004. By comparing these figures and by referring to the domestic gross product, as required by law, education costs now account for 6.4 percent. Last year they were 5.9 in the last 5.3. And there were years when we had less than 4 percent, 3.7 and so on, the figures are positive, but I admit that if today were twice the education budget, it wouldn't be enough, because those shortcomings that have accumulated for decades, they don't solve them in one year. It must be recognized that education today holds on to the intelligence of health, goodness, responsibility of the teacher, the thousands of movers who sow intelligent, good, eternal daily. The Ukrainian village was and remains the preserve of national culture and spirituality. A detailed analysis of the legal status of the case is presented in reference materials distributed to the National Deputies, and today we have collected additional materials from the operational data and distributed them to you in 2005. The school we have today is unfortunately a school from the middle of the last century. The goal was to prepare the footage for the agrarian industrial development of the then state. This task has been successfully accomplished, and today the world situation has changed dramatically, leading the countries that have chosen an innovative course of development based on the knowledge economy. I believe that we are usually taking steps today, but there are not enough. And the revolution in education today takes place in two directions, it's using the potential of the human mind and informing the educational process. In the first direction of the natives. Something's going on. So in information matters, we have a very difficult situation today, and because we've adopted a state information program today, I think this situation is going to get a little bit better. By the way, what I'm saying is, this year, we've done exactly what the information program budget provides for, to a penny, even with overwork, we've done. At the same time, the overall picture of the situation in the rural area is serious; it is exacerbated by the demographic situation, as can be said, in the mined demographic field we have lost only 540 schools in the last five years. This is explained by many factors, especially the fact that during the same period the number of students in schools decreased by nearly 400,000. Most of the schools in Poltavska, Chernigiv, Ravenska, Žitomirski, Sumskia, Vinnitsk. Why is that? Look, in three thousand villages. We had virtually no children. That's the answer. The government understands the depth and extent of these phenomena. The first steps towards halting the crisis have been taken in conjunction with Parliament. This is about increasing the cost of supporting agriculture, the social sphere in the countryside. I've talked about this before. I think that the situation in 2006 will be somewhat optimistic, because for the first time in Ukraine's new history, not just the education budget has been adopted, but also the education development budget. He's taking into account the President's orders to target at least 10 percent of education development that will allow us to do repairs, remodel schools, buy equipment. In 2006-2007, we plan to complete the basic computerization of secondary education and to develop the domestic production of modern teaching tools from natural and mathematical, technological and other disciplines. By the way, what I'm saying is that for the first time in years of independence, we put in almost half a hundred classrooms of physics and chemistry and all that. The concept of education for 2006-2010 is to solve the problems of technical training, information and so on. We have for the first time this year in the 16 million budget for technical training, and we're going to work on the development of a joint venture in the production of technical learning tools. We have almost 200 million for information against 78 this year. We also have a World Bank loan of almost half a billion dollars that we'll use for these purposes. What exactly did we do in the fields? In preschool education. In the last year, over 290 preschools have been restored by social education, raising rural children that have been able to recover. The Lugansk Region, Žitomirska, Poltavska, Cherkas region, worked best. I'd like to tell you that we have a preschool coverage today of slightly over 51 percent versus 48-49 last year. This trend is positive, unfortunately, it doesn't suit us yet. Why do we ask this question about the restoration of preschool education? And why is this the harshest requirement of government? Because the intelligence of young people, the intelligence of children is shaped by? At the preschool age. If we don't organize jobs there, it won't be understood. I wanted to say that we took serious steps in secondary education. The first step is that, together with Parliament, we have managed to raise salaries for teachers. If in 2002 it was an average of 267, 2003 – 392, 2004 – 508, 2005 – 763 bracelets. The calculations show that in about the second half of this year we're going to have at least 950 dollars, so you see on the table. I would like to say that, thanks to our position, we have virtually no vacancy in schools today. The quality that teachers have is a different question. But if we had two, three, by five thousand teachers absent for the beginning of the school year, today we, glory, God, have covered these vacancies. If we have published, practically stopped the housing process in previous years, and I would like to say that this is a painful problem because we have over 20,000 teachers in need of housing today, in 2003 133 apartments were provided, in 2004 - 167, about 600 in this year. I would like to point out: the Poltavsk region, the Hmelnick region, the Cherkaskie region, the Kyiv region, the Chernigiv region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Kharkiv region, the Vinnitsk region, which have made serious breakthroughs. Regrettably, some areas have been virtually removed. I think this is seriously going to be the topic of one of the first fellow ministries where we're going to seriously ask our managers about this situation. I would like to inform the national deputies that, despite negative trends and school closures in 2005, 44 new schools were put into operation for 12,000 students and 38 of them in the village. That's 12 more schools than last year. I'd like to say that, really, we have negative trends. This year, in 2005, 78 schools were closed, and 981 students were enrolled. But why is that? Because there are virtually no children in many schools for three or four years. I can call it, for example. Tomaszgrad School of Rakitniv district of Ravensk, Poliské Górodnnjan district, Chernigivské region, Cervonoarmijska, Medvedovské Semenovské district. Well, there weren't any kids at all. The Minister of Education personally examines the situation in every school, and I firmly believe that every village school should be as basic as possible. But the final decision must be taken by the community, taking into account the opinion of the parents, taking into account public opinion. Last year's government has intensified its information problem. We installed a thousand two hundred ten computers, even more than we planned. Of these, 740 are to schools, not computers, but computer classes, 470 are to vocational schools. For the first time, we placed computer complexes in the factories. Next year, we'll start doing this to technicians. By the way, for the first time, we're handing information costs to local councils. And they will determine for themselves. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, my time is running out. But I wanted to say what I wanted to say today. We'll do the programs on the buses. Despite the fact that at the last moment “Goddan” refused to place buses for technical reasons, we will recommence all contracts and during the first half of January until the only one budgeted, all buses will be installed. I can tell you that we've done a wonderful job with you. The percentage of our children’s diet has increased to a serious extent. If less than half of the children were fed at a younger school last year, this percentage increased to 85 this year. And the requirement is that there can be no school where children do not eat, especially in the countryside. It's the top priority of education management and all that. It is good that the budget provides 150 million dollars for the reconstruction of a rural school. It's also done for the first time, I think it'll help us solve a lot of problems. We're starting an experiment called Family School, so that every school in the village can actually have a school. I'd like to say that we're going to continue to pay off the creditors' debt, the creditor's credit card in the 57th article. There is a problem today with the payment of utilities. But I know that a bill has been tabled, and I have not addressed the budget committee and the government on a personal basis, so that we can restore the utilities. There is a problem, and I would like to take it into account today. It is a decision, by the way, a fine decision prepared by the Committee on Science and Education, the problem of providing land for educators and schools. There cannot be a school in rural areas today without land and a teacher who does not have land, at least two acres [2 ha]. There are many problems today. In the budget, we envisioned for the first time lending housing to teachers of 15 million. But the budgets of rural, district, and district councils are now being approved. It's our job to have this money in every neighborhood for housing. I'd like to say something about those problems, but I'm afraid it's about time. There's two more minutes. This isn't the time. I'm sorry. I would like to say today about the problems that I am concerned about and education from all over Ukraine. First of all, we need to pay attention today. Stop the process of liquidation, retraining of preschool institutions. It's nonsense. That's not supposed to happen. And that's why this question is going to be fundamental to us. Next. Normatives, including formal calculation. If we don't change him, we're gonna lose the country school. Because we have, say, preschool education, how is it financed today? Last year. There are 10 percent of preschool coverage in the Lviv region. Here we take the base and make a slight increase. And at 78, it's 90 percent lighter. And where 5.8 percent of the coverage is going to stay at 5 percent. This is a problem that I think we can solve. We're preparing a five-year preschool program that takes all of this into account. What is involved in high school today? So, I think it's a network issue, we've been gathering a group here, and I think we're going to improve the network of schools. I'd like to ask. I would like to ask that in the Supreme Council’s decree we write down a commission to the district councils, local councils, to review the situation in the rural school. And the last. The Committee on Science and Education, together with the Ministry, with the practice of educators, prepared a document, we participated, and the decision is very, very specific in our opinion. Its implementation will solve the human resources, material, scientific problems of rural schooling. We support this plan. The only thing I want is for the project to be further developed is a priority funding commission next year for the construction and construction of schools with centralised capital funds to go there. We have many schools to complete. And the commission of local authorities to consider the situation of providing rural teachers with land. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, a change in the formula would be a major help to the rural school, and that would solve the problem. And the renewal of payments to rural intelligence utilities, the introduction of energy-saving heating systems, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Let's get to the questions. Please sign up for the questions. Stanislav Mikolaiovich, in writing. Let's start with the letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u54	The deputy faction “The One Ukraine” asked questions about the provision of rural schools by teachers, as well as the subjects envisaged by the school program. I'd like to tell you that this year we have increased the government's order substantially and brought it to 54 percent in the first course. Today, we allow all teachers who have completed their education to continue on a free basis in higher school in order to provide full support to teachers. I called you on vacation today. We had a vacancy of two, three to five thousand for the beginning of the school year, actually this year we had a vacancy of about 200 to 300 people, and now there are no vacancies. We have increased the government's invitation to educational institutions and is a target. What does it mean to receive? When the children of rural areas are accepted outside the competition. This year, the figure is about 6,000. We take the children back to their home village. So I think we're dealing with this problem today. Next question. The Communist Party MPs and the Committee on Social Policy asked questions about the closure, the reorganization of public educational institutions, the preservation of the network. I would like to say that the question of the existence of educational institutions in the village is question number one, because if today's school is not the only hub in the rural area, the fence of spirituality and culture, we can't break this harmony. My personal position: I don't think there's a FAP school, there's no village. I think the government will do everything possible to prevent us from destroying this network. I say again: we've opened 44 schools for 12,000. Places I think in the next generation, we'll do everything we can to get schools to work together with Parliament. But I would like to say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, one digit. See, out of 55 of the 78 schools of children, there were between 1 and 10 students. And in many cases, parents themselves say that it is impossible to organize a learning process in this number of children. So, of course, without the parents ’ opinion, without the community’s opinion, we will not ruin anything. And it's under the personal control of both the minister and the government and the president.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u55	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u56	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the regions Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine", like all societies, is concerned about the lack of coordination between Minosvita, Minpraci and Mineconomy in the training strategy by both the village and the village. Today, the state is practically producing new unemployed at the expense of a budget or parent’s funds, which finance future accountants and economists who do not need the real economy. You know, in Ternopol today, 10 colleges are preparing accountants, although there's an Academy of People's Agriculture that can provide accountants across western Ukraine. Isn't that why there are 85 applicants and 20 accountants and all that? Please tell me how you feel about the activation of the government order for a village, the restoration of the status of distribution and the status of a young specialist with proper pay and housing. And the second question is, what's being done to improve the quality of higher education specialists, because there's a lot of complaints about this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u57	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, what I would like to tell you. Well, first of all, if you've noticed, we've increased the government's order this year without increasing it to economists, lawyers and so forth. We've increased technology, engineers, educators, information technology and so on. The other one. You've probably seen strikers standing in front of Kabmin for over two weeks demanding the resignation of an education minister. For what? For this year, in the past, we closed up over 100 educational institutions that did not provide educational services but did what they said. They cheated on their parents, cheated on their children. We're fighting pseudo education. And by no chance today, the whole of Kiev -- they're demanding the minister's resignation, because, you see, business has ruined someone! When, excuse me, there's a university in the room and he can't be there. So the State Accreditation Commission has now set up public representations in every area. And I think it's a question where all the political forces will unite. And we're going to Crimea today, Donetsk, Lviv, all over the region, and we're looking at what these educational institutions are for, and why so many, let's say, the same lawyers, economists who don't actually get any knowledge there. That's how the economy will be! With regard to the coordination of efforts between Minpraci, Mineconomy, and Minosveti. We're preparing a whole new order, we've held two joint meetings. But the reason isn't in employment today, not because we're not coordinating, but because there's still a lot of unemployment. And it's better not to have a kid standing in the market, we'll say, getting this unemployment, these coins, because there's also two and a half thousand a month to pay, in a year. Let him learn better, we will delay his entry into real life, but we will save for Ukraine a normal person so that he will not go to prison but learn. “What does he do?” the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations asks: “What is done to make young people learn where they live?” I'd like to tell you today, we're launching an experiment: a family school. We are making changes in the training of educators today so that one teacher can lead several classes, two, maybe three. And also the training of a special teacher who could, say, maybe, well, we have cases overseas of special schools, which leads to seventh grade in general to one teacher. But this teacher needs to pay twice as much and this teacher needs to be trained. And then we won't, let's say, transport those kids. Second, the community itself needs to determine whether or not to keep a small school there if it is good. And if there's grayness, then transportation is organized, so once again, I want to tell you, we put 357 on buses this year against 280 that year. And they're now being supplied, by the way, they're coming. Contracts are made, all paid, despite the breakup that they were. And thirdly, 800 buses were bought this year alone, including us plus local budgets. We will do everything we can to enable our children to receive quality education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u58	George Buiko, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u59	George Buiko, I ask you to pass the word Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u60	George Ponomarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u61	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, you were here for information, for buses. I'm a member of the Committee on Budgets, we've switched from these two articles to the other articles several times this year because the funds were not used. Don't wave your head at 26% on buses. And the second question is, When will there be normal history textbooks? I saw a resolution by the head of the Mikolai administration on a self-printing paper on the U.N., U.S.A.A., a history textbook that writes to the district education department chiefs: Please study and report on this study every month. When will normal Russian and Ukrainian textbooks be available?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. As far as computer supply is concerned, I want to tell you. We didn’t spend any of the funds we had planned for the purchase of computer complexes. Wait a second. There was a figure on scientific co-existence, a scientific co-existence that can't be spent on material costs, you know, it's for the development of scientific articles. And this part, we wanted to throw it at material cost, but we didn't let that happen. That's why we spent this part on student support. But the cost of computers, I call it the final number right now, we have 475 computer complexes of vocational education contracts, and 99 percent of them are actually contracted. 734 complexes, I have areas, for high school. As far as buses are concerned. 357 buses. But in view of the critical situation, we counted all the costs on buses, to a single copy. Contracts with businesses are made and are now being made, you know, when "Goddan" in early December refused 150 buses because Russia did not put them together, it wasn't my fault. But January of the month, we're closing this problem completely, and now the moments are coming, the buses are coming. I've been doing this myself. I've made a special decision for Kabmin. The government responded quickly. As far as history books are concerned. I'd like to tell you this. That's a very delicate question. Several times it was considered by my personal participation with those who wrote these textbooks. I've asked everything and I'm asking these authors today to participate in the competition. So that we do not tarnish our own history so that we can write objectively and truthfully. In the last year, we published one history book for the fifth class. We wrote the right letters. Simonenko wrote a letter stating that the Constitutional Court had justified the Company’s decision. We have sent an appropriate instruction letter to all district authorities to make appropriate changes. But here's what I'd like to say. You realize that the minister's textbooks don't contain textbooks. And there are scientific and methodological councils, there are institutions, there are people who are doing this on a competitive basis. What these textbooks take from ten to one, so I invite scientists from all the political forces who, let's say, will offer, there, stand on the scientific basis of their positions. But history must be true.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. All I can say is that scientists can't be of different political powers, scientists can be alone, or scientists, or unscientists. Please, in writing, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u64	Vladimir Mikhailovich, yes, you said it right, but there are scientists, representatives of various political parties, I ask them to participate. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u65	Please, in writing, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u66	As far as questions are concerned. They're repeating themselves here. I'm missing some, because I've been asking some questions. Questions were asked about the importance of rural school graduates by the Block of Timoshenko MPs, the question is this. So here's what I'm going to tell you. In 2005, among those enrolled in higher education institutions, 11,000 were persons who entered the target reception according to Cabinet of Ministers Decree No.1155. In total, the rural youth of the number of admissions to the first grade are 117 thousand, which is 23 percent of the total. Of these, nearly half were enrolled at the expense of the State Budget. For the next year, this issue will be investigated and we will do our utmost to ensure that the rural youth quota continues to be maintained. You know, we have 50 percent agrarian universities and at least 25 percent at the rest. This quota is and we've written in the rules of acceptance. I appointed a Committee on Science and Education, a Committee on Social Policy, a faction of socialists to implement article 57, paragraph 4, of the Law on Education of Social Guarantees for Educators. I'd like to say it's a matter of principle. These are utility services. Public services were paid for the king and the Soviet authorities. Regrettably, in the 2005 and 2006 budgets, article 39 showed that these services are provided if there is a tax benefit for a particular citizen. It amounted to 570 dollars in 2005. In 2006, it's going to be 1 January 676, 1 April 694 and 1 October 707. So if you have more pay, you don't use the benefits, if you have less use, I think it's a bit of social tension that makes us, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I know they've made some budget changes now. We were very supportive of the local budgets. More there, I know, was added to the second reading of seven billion. I think small amounts of money could be found in order to actually restore this benefit. We made such an offer, unfortunately it did not pass. I think that's the disadvantage of our government, but we're going to fix the situation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u67	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u68	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Saint Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u69	Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u70	Santa, I'm sorry. You're a wonderful man, and you've had a wonderful performance. And these compliments I'm not telling you to demonstrate that you and I are in power and we have each other to support each other, and I'm saying this because there's literally recently been a discussion on the first issue of the infection situation, and unfortunately, the decision to accept the job is not satisfactory, even though the Anatoly MP is stressing Frost, he's talking about the abuse of the House of Auditors that took place on medications in 2002-2004. What I'm saying is, I'm saying this before your 19-voice faction has given rise to mistrust. And it seems to me that no matter how well the minister works, and no matter what he does, we are still more involved, not in state-building, but in electoral processes. So I emphasize that we should be honest with ourselves even before the elections are held, and then before our electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u71	Thank you. I don't belong to the faction today, but I think it'll answer why they made that decision. I have questions about payments to teaching staff from the Committee on Youth Policy and Sport for payments to teachers of the 1997 - 2001, amounting to article 57. Dear colleagues, we have worked with you to solve this problem. The Cabinet of Ministers has passed a decree of September 19, 2005, number 934, which provides for payment of funds to other categories of teaching staff. I'd like to say that last year, we went to high school, just for school, 531 million. In addition, there are some more than 130 million United States dollars. was dedicated to higher education. We counted this order, 36 million more. It was directed and partially returned to utilities, there were really problems at the beginning, because we didn't know how to tax, there were a lot of moments, because that applied for a dozen years. Now this problem is settled and the 2006 budget also provides for these costs, and I think we're going to pay back these debts, and I think that's a very useful thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee to serve as chairman of the committee, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky Please, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education discussed at its meeting on December 21st a draft decision by the Supreme Council to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws on quality education in rural areas. The committee stated that there were a number of positive developments in preschool and secondary education. So it was restored from the point of view of preschool education of 300 preschool schools, and in secondary education, the teacher's average salary was 804 dollars, much more than in previous years. There has been a substantial increase in the number of apartments for teachers over 560. More than a thousand computer classes have been created in schools. More than eight million textbooks have been published, and special attention has been paid to vocational education. For the first time in ten years, the computerization of factories began and over 500 classes were created. Current debts for utilities have been eliminated. And yet, the main problem of education in the country remains education in rural areas, which is closely linked to the demographic situation in the country in the country. What are the main problems here? The main problem is providing quality education in rural areas. The committee recently held a field meeting on this issue in the White Church. I have to say, we were very welcome there. What are the main conclusions? Unlike urban education, rural education is fundamentally divided into primary, primary, and complete education. Initially, it's a fourth-class education including. Main is up to 9th grade and full, up to 12th grade included. And, of course, preschools. Preschool facilities and primary education should be in every village where there are children. In this regard, a number of tasks arise before the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the preparation of a widely trained and well - paying rural teacher who knows 3-4 specialties. It should be remembered that there are rural schools with an average of 6 students per school in the Luhansk region, up to 20 students per school, 25 students per school in the Zakarpatsk district. High - quality education and full - time education provide for the creation of resilient schools. One supporting school for several villages and for the creation of resilient schools involves a future administrative reform in the middle of the country. Support schools are schools provided by the Internet, good labs and libraries, schools where children are taken and taken to school. This question seems obvious, but it is very difficult to carry out. So it's very important to do experimental work, and their success depends largely on the ability of the organizers, and there should be support for those areas of the state where there are enthusiasts of these important institutions. This requires close coordination between Minosveta, Minprompolitics, Mintrans, and Minsilgoprod. The committee organizes appropriate meetings, and it should be noted that the Dutch Foundation for the Organization of Resilience Schools in Kakhovsk and Sokal district of our area is being promoted. And yet I want to mark those enthusiasms today, although this is not usually practiced at the meetings of the Supreme Council, which have been particularly applied to the creation of such resilient schools. I want to especially highlight the Stavistian district of Kyiv and the head of paradise. Ivan Grigorovich Osadchiy, who first created a very beautiful school of resistance for 800 children and plans to build suitable schools of support in the Stowish region. I want to mark the Sokal district and the head of the district administration of Psevlovski MikoI Ivanovich of the Lviv region, where there is an extremely interesting job in the creation of primary schools. So the planned number of children by 2010, a map of the area at the future position of the resistance schools, a long-term prospect for rural development, and I want to remind you that more than 560 rural sites have no hard-cover roads. In addition, experiments are being conducted in the Kozyatin district of Winnitsk and in the Kakhov region of Herson. Supportive schools are to become the center of product marketing, which is being produced in the district. A school with its Internet needs to be a school not only for students, but for adults and farmers in the rural area, it has to offer the products that are being produced in the region, and the seniors have to be involved in the region's economy and in their economy. The social protection of a rural teacher is particularly important. Our budget is full of nonsense. Compensation has been made to teachers for heating and housing costs if the teacher receives less than $540. Wages and, if more, no compensation. This creates an unusually paradoxical situation where a teacher refuses to pay the full wage just to get compensation for utilities. I want to say that in 2006, for the first time in 15 years, the cost of repairing rural schools was set aside. Deputies! The laws are enough. The government should take steps to enforce laws and regulations, especially the decree of the President of Ukraine of July 4, 2005. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, Igor Rafailovich's factionism is not a mistake, for it is surprising that the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Recently, he filled the ranks of this faction. So it's all right on the board. Yes, dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion for 20 minutes. Please, Peter Petrovich Toloczko, faction of the National Party. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Today, the question is extremely important, but the question is broader than just rural education. Over the years of our independence, we have done so that we have essentially demolished the village. The village was demolished, the school was demolished, the entire infrastructure was degraded in schools, in villages. So the question is really broader than the educational question. Our minister has just said that 44 schools have been in operation this year. But we have over a thousand uneducated schools, right. And if we're going to enter 44 schools a year, how much time do we need to go to school? We were a traveling meeting, as Igor Raphaelovich spoke of. We were really welcome there. We were in two of the best schools in the Bilocerk district. In a school where there were 250 to 300 people in Soviet times, there are now up to 40 children. So, what quality education can this be? Teachers don't stay in schools. They have no living conditions. Well, computerization's a good thing, but first of all, it's not in all schools. And secondly, it's not connected to the Internet. And there's not much information there either. There are no libraries in the villages. There are no cultural and educational institutions in the villages. And today we are on our way to unify both the school and the club, and the library in the same institution, and even the kindergarten of the older classes. It's obviously a palate, but what you're going to do, when there's really no children, is really a school degrade. I think today we have to make the village one of the national priorities of our country's development, not just a rural school. And if we make the village a national priority, it's obviously going to change the situation. Dear colleagues, I support the high-level certification given by Lilia Grigorovitch to the minister, and I have no claim to him. But in general, the situation with Ukraine’s rural school is completely unsatisfactory. And we have to write this in our determination as a statement of fact and as an order from our government to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u76	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Petey Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u77	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The village for the history of the Ukrainian nation performed and performed an extraordinary function, perhaps like no other nation. The Ukrainian village has always been a national, spirit - producing village. The Ukrainian village may have preserved our national identity, preserved our language, and maintained our Ukrainian spirituality. And it's only natural that in the years of Stalin, it was necessary to take a devastating blow right into the Ukrainian village and through the collectiveization, then through the famines, then through the insurmountable taxes on skin, chicken, wood, loan, and so on. And today's collapse of the Ukrainian village must certainly worry every Ukrainian soul, and what it has to say about us with you people's deputies, who have somehow become so inconceivably new today, the role of the highest political authority in the state, which assumes full responsibility or, at least, assumes a large share of responsibility for what is happening in Ukraine. The genius of not supporting education and school will be holding up prisons. Something similar is happening to us today. There's a lot of talk here, and I also want to say that the new minister and the changes we have today in the state and the better, and the worse, I understand those problems, but that a step towards rural education has already been made. You and I have passed some very important laws at the end of the year, but we are well aware that even nine women cannot bear a child in one month. However, with very little time, I would like to say some of the biggest problems. And let the minister hear about them, not talk to the Flood, talk about them later. These are the questions. Among the active teachers in school, 1 in 7 is a pensioner. A quota for rural children, 14 percent of all, think! Without rural education, it is impossible to talk about the future of the village. Of just one thousand students in the village, only one has access to a computer. Society is at a time when the world has long mastered computer technology and cannot exist without it. Only 39 rural schools have such computer systems. The cost of teaching is already 10,000. It's a year. I want to say that there's a lot of pay in different colleges. There are prestigious knots and impeccable. A rural child can only enter the unrestrained. We're already creating inequality among them. And I'm done with that. One woman told me that the Ukrainian village is a school, a farm, a cemetery. The farm is gone, you know, the school we're already getting. Then there is one: the cradle, the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u78	Sergey Zizko. Prepare Michael Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u79	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! First of all, it should be recognized that the term “quality education ” in itself is quite relative. However, I believe that we have objective reasons to believe that some education in rural areas is failing to measure the bones of education in large cities. This applies both to human resources and finance and to material and technical capabilities, and to the organization of education and child training, and above all to the quality of the knowledge and level of development of the graduates of rural school, from which only 1 in 6 gets basic and complete higher education. While among the city’s children, it is obtained by virtually everyone who wants it. Among other things, nearly half of all schoolchildren are taught in villages, villages, and towns. We therefore have reason to believe that these children do not comply with the Education Act on accessibility for every citizen of all forms and types of educational services provided by the State. We also need to realize that our modern rural school is the level of the 19th century for civilized countries. And we should finally determine strategically whether we continue, as we have done so far, to improve the profits of this queen, losing the intellectual potential of the nation and deepening our backs, whether we are moving on to a decisive renewal of the rural school and bringing it into line with today's demands. The first and necessary step for such an upgrade is, in my view, a gradual, gradual reduction in the network of incomplete and incomplete schools and the creation of resilient schools. Because this is the only way that children and teachers will have normal conditions for learning, training, development, and communication, and there will be a normal competitive environment in the classroom that will stimulate students’ interest, improve their achievements. It should also be borne in mind that Ukraine is facing imminent urbanization, because modern agrarian production does not require the amount of rural population that we now have. And this thesis does not call for the destruction of the Ukrainian village, as the opposition may wish. This is a legitimate process of developing productive forces in which Ukraine is currently lagging behind the whole of Europe. And so there's no point in continuing the agony of small rural schools, because in the future they won't be needed. The implementation of this step requires the implementation of the School Bus programme, which has not yet met the needs of rural education. It is estimated that more than 10,000 units are needed. And they're needed right now. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to increase funding on this programme several times next year, and now to credit the factories and immediately place the orders for their production. And certainly a rural school needs a highly professional teacher who is not burdened with material problems. It takes several years to maintain the rate of increase in teachers ’ salaries and to restore the prestige of the profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u80	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Kozlowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u81	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable national MPs, respected radio audiences, education is the direction of social activity, where the mistakes that were before are not corrected in the future are only deepening. The Communist faction believes that the government’s education policy, which has been in place for the past 15 years, has led to the collapse of Ukraine’s intellectual potential in the country. To our conviction, this is due to the social dispersion of society, resulting in the destruction of the principles of equal access for rural youth to education. The second reason is the destruction of large agricultural production, resulting in the destruction of socio-economic and socio-cultural conditions for young people in rural areas, which has made rural specialties such as mechanics, agronomists, zootechnics, etc. Some figures have already been given, and I'll give you some. The birth rate of those whom we teach continues to decline. Part of the healthy rural youth is mixed, the number of schools and preschools available, and many others. And there's increasing numbers. There is an increase in mortality, the proportion of sick youths, those who lose their jobs, those who use drugs, the number of villages that have no schools, young people, and so forth. Today's teacher's face is cultural isolation, housing and homelessness, unsecured old age. With regard to the steps taken by ministries, different ministries and previous ministries, including the quality of education, this is primarily the transition to a 12-year learning system and a 12-year-old knowledge assessment system. So one moss has increased the quality by 2.5 times. With regard to improving the content of education, the most important are in the humanitarian field. This is primarily the conversion of Russian language and literature to foreign status, the exclusion from the history books of the Great Homeland War, the replacement in the history books of the guerrilla underground movement against Nazi Germany in Ukraine for the fight of the UN, the UPA along with the fascist Germany in Ukraine. This year, reference was made to the information sent to the historian Kulczytski. Even the interpretation of the accession of Western lands to Ukraine has changed. It's no longer an original land. desire, and they seem to be conquered by the Soviet Union. With regard to evaluation, the evaluation of the government and government policy of 15 years of implementation can only be unsatisfactory. This is now the “f” rating in the school because they move to the Latin letters “a”, “b”, “c”, “d”, “e”, “f”, “x”,”. that the ‘f’ assessment is not a correction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u82	Anatoly Kozlowski, Rebirth Party. Prepare Stupak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u83	Anatoly Kozlovski, political party “Rebirth”, Mikolaiyevščina, 133 constituency. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. Providing the right conditions for quality education in rural areas is without overestimating one of the key aspects of the restoration of the village. Today, nearly 60 percent of pensioners live in the countryside. Soon there will be no one to work, and we will be forced to move from our country’s cities to the countryside. Young people do not see the prospect of decent education and employment in the countryside. And as soon as possible, he makes a choice for the city. The level of secondary education in the village is much lower than in the city. We need to raise education to a higher level, offer quality education. Respectable, lack of teachers of appropriate qualifications. There are no teachers in the country today, missing in foreign language, in physics, in chemistry. Today, the teacher earns an average village salary of 700 dollars. That's the average wage. There are teachers who make 500, 400 dollars. Today, young people who graduate from universities do not go to the village to work because there are no conditions, no housing, no wages, where else. So our rebirth party is offering and demanding that we raise the salary for our teachers so that the minimum wage is not less than 1300 dollars. Because we all know that a poor mother, a poor teacher, never raises a happy child. So we need to do everything we can to make the teacher happy in the countryside. Our "Rebirth" party suggests that a young specialist who comes to the village, so-called "uplifts", issue at least 10 to 15 thousand dollars to make loans available to the person who comes to the village, so that the government can take on the costs to make the salary worthwhile, then we will have quality education in the village. I think that if the head of district education receives less wages than the school principal in the country or the inspector gets more money, so does the quality of our training. I think we'll do everything we can to make our teachers feel the concern of our government, the concern of our party that they'll be happy, the teachers will be happy. Please, Vladimir Stupak, prepare Proscuratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u84	Vladimir Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, the Honorable Radio Speakers and the Voters, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that one of the main issues in education is the improvement of the material and technical base of rural schools. This is the construction and major repair of schools. In Ukraine more than 3,000 rural schools are in need of capital repair, and there are cases where schools collapse when children need to be transferred to other institutions. This should be budgeted. The completion of school construction is also a major problem, the provision of furniture for schools. This is extremely important right now, because we don't have enough table, party, chairs and everything we need for schools. Computerization of rural schools and access to the Internet is an important problem in every rural school, not just the Ministry of Education, of course, but the whole government, including the Ministry of Communications. The Ukrainian People’s Party believes that providing buses for the transport of children, as well as solving the problems of bus service, is an important issue. The school bus program is in operation, and the ministry is working in the right direction. Costs are quite large, but the problem is that you need drivers, you need gasoline, you need to service them, and not all of them are in the budget. So I want to turn from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to all the heads of district councils and administrations, to the heads of district councils and district administrations, so that at the sessions held in January on budgetary issues, issues in all areas and areas of education will be paramount. The government and the Supreme Council are to renew benefits for rural teachers, all rural teachers in Ukraine. And the main problem is and there's still the problem of wage, there's still an increase in wages for all the education people, especially out-of-school institutions. Now in school homes, in other out-of-school institutions, workers are paid 350 and a little bit more money, which is twice as much as the average even after education. This is an extremely important problem. And the fact that these questions are being proposed on Government Day is very good. That draft decision, developed by the Supreme Council, I propose that the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party support it and adopt it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u85	Thank you. Tamara Proskuratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]] Dear colleagues! Respectful teaching! The basic principles of education in Ukraine are accessibility for every citizen of all kinds of educational services provided by the State. Ukraine is the only state in the SND that has direct education laws: pre-school education, general secondary education, extra-school education, higher education. But there are problems and problems in education, especially in rural schools. A formula for one child does not provide sufficient funding for rural schools. Of the 898 educational institutions that are in a state of emergency, these are statistics, 650 are in rural areas. The biggest problem hindering good education is the territorial inaccessibility of educational institutions. The problem is that the program is being implemented, the computerization of the school, and the school bus. But I've said this more than once from the Supreme Council rostrum, and we've made parliamentary inquiries to all the governors, to the ministers about the implementation of 57 articles of the Education Act of Ukraine. And again, I have tens of telegrams, some of them I'll read. When in some regions, 57 articles of the Ukrainian Education Act are not being implemented. The city of Nechisin, in the Hmělnice region, does not pay a single penny for the 57th article. The teachers of the city of Simferopol will not be paid for the 57th article. Retirement teachers of Nedrigail city, Suma district. Retired teachers of the Poltava Palace of Childhood and Youth Creativity. The rural teachers of the village of Stavishte, in the district of Žitomir, did not get one either. The teachers of the village of Prikotne, Kharkiv district, did not receive such compensation. Dear colleagues, I have received both a telegram and a letter from the Czernigow Regional Committee of the Professionals of Education and Science of Ukraine proposing to accept, at the legislative level, the question of restructuring the debt of payments to teaching workers in order to ensure that school teachers have a paid salary, a medium-sized industry, and employees of higher education institutions double industry. I want to tell you, my fellow Members, such a bill was adopted in the first reading, as was also adopted in the first reading of a bill on credit for housing for educational workers. But I would like to say, dear teachers, no member of the faction “Our Ukraine” except Carmazin, no member of the People's Movement faction supported this bill. I'd like you to know who declares their love for teachers and who decides it at the legislative level. And I believe that until article 57 of the Education Act is resolved, the Ministry of Education works.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Question completed. Let's see, there are three representatives left over from the factions. One minute from the vote. Please, Bagger microphone, get Vassilieva ready. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u88	Michael Bauer, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We talked about everything, and actually we didn't talk about the main thing -- the quality of the knowledge of schoolchildren, which is getting lower and lower from year to year. Today, practitioners claim that only 20 percent of children are capable of adopting Ukrainian national standards, and most children have very little knowledge. There is a total ossification of the quality of education in Ukraine. That's the first problem. The second problem is the extremely high workload of our schoolchildren. Judge for yourself, a total of 11 hours of hard work on a student’s day. Four or seven hours a child works at school and another two or four hours at home. Who can stand such a frenzyd working rhythm. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u89	Alexander Vasiliev, please. A garden to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we are considering a very important issue, the state of education of rural schools. This is a very relevant issue today. The thing is, I have rural areas and a lot of them in my district, and I have to meet with a group of schools, where, of course, the situation that it's in today is clearly clear. The extremely difficult situation is that there is no funding for simple basic items, namely development, status, ongoing repairs, capital investments and the entire amount of funds that are used to computerize schools. Computerization of schools today requires a lot of attention so that, in rural school, children are said not to be limited, but rather, as much as possible, that people know, our children in rural areas, that is, working with computers. Today, the very important issue is that most schools today remain in such a position that school numbers are becoming normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u91	Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u92	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. Today, a rural teacher, a rural health worker who runs a club, a librarian is a social category in the countryside, and they are socially protected. In a village where there's no school, there's no club, there's definitely no future. This village has been dying for 10 years. The Socialist faction believes that there is still much to be done in this Chamber of Deputies about creating conditions for the work of a rural teacher, where students can gain quality education. And some adjustments should be made to the regulation, in particular article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006 in part of the aid, compensation, guarantees of teachers have been narrowed down by the constitutional guarantees of the rural teacher. This led to the denial of this right by nearly all teaching workers in rural areas. So we're going to initiate changes to this law so that the rural teacher is protected socially in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, before the decision is determined, here they ask where the Head is? He is now meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland, the meeting is ending, and we have arranged to hear about the problems related to gas supply at 13 hours. So we're going to vote and we're going to take a break. There's literally one word on the problem that we've been discussing, because, like many of you, at least I'm happy to recall when I started my work path from the teacher of the rural school. And I think, really, if we don't do the famous classical will and we don't put the teacher, first of all, the teacher of the rural school at the height at which he should stand, then we can talk about all the other questions for a long time. We have a draft decision. But it also sounded like an evaluation, a proposal. So let's do the same thing that we voted on the previous draft of the ruling, so we vote on the basis, and then we go back to the assessment. I am voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Supreme Council Regulation on compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of quality education in rural areas. Registration number 8656. On the ground, no grade. Vote. For 382. Copy that. Now let's vote on the score. There were two suggestions. The proposal will be the first to vote, which is proposed by the committee, to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the shortcomings in providing quality education for citizens living in rural areas. And there was an offer made by Peter Petrovich Dolocz to admit that he was unhappy. And Rodion's included. In that order, I'll put it to a vote. It is up to the vote to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the current shortcomings, what is proposed in the committee's ruling. I'd like to make up my mind. For – 146 Not accepted. It's up to the vote to be made by both Toloczko and Rodionov, to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the unsatisfactory work and quality education of citizens living in rural areas. Please vote. For 241. Copy that. The factions, please. Regional Party 55, Communist 56, Our Ukraine 5, People's Party 39, Block Timoshenko 33, Socialist 0, People's Block Lithuania 20, Social Democrats 19, Ukrainian People's Party, People's Movement Party Ukraine, Reforms and Orders, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs 0, “Only Ukraine” 6, non-fractional-8. [[United]] I'm putting it to a vote as a whole. Take it off, please take it off. Carmazine's microphone. Take down the vote, please. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we report: “commit the government to find the funds to complete the construction of 800 public education facilities that are in a state of unfinished construction”. First sentence. And the second. I suggest you include that sentence. “To oblige the government to implement a plan for admission to agrarian educational establishments, which are still implemented by only 50 per cent of the population in rural schools, and to oblige the government to develop the funds and facilities for the construction of a service home for the provision of 5,000 teachers who today need to improve living conditions in rural areas.” Service housing is not going to be owned, you're working today, you've got a place to live. You don't work, the other one comes to work, but the housing will be there all the time, and you can do it, and you can do it for the state. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, let's do this. Put your hands down. We took it as a foundation. Please report to the profile committee. On Thursday, the profile committee will look at those supplements, because I think it's a pretty correct addition to Carmazin, but it's going to be millions or billions. So let's have the profile committee deal with these proposals, and we're going to put this whole decision to a vote like that. Just like before the government day. Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz’s replica was mentioned by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u96	Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputy Lilia Grigorovitch expressed herself very carefully as to the wrong position of the faction when voting on the medical issue. I think you've found that in both the first and the second cases, it's not the work of ministers and ministries, it's the state of affairs in these areas in Ukraine. Everyone understands that. And I'm just grateful to Lily Grigorovitch for that. That she gave a high-level assessment of the minister's actions, and that's no wonder, because he represents the Socialist Party. So I hope that after the elections and in 2006, we will have more than half of the Socialists in the Cabinet, and then there will be order in all areas so that there will be no objections and observations from Lilia Grigorovitch and other deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Be careful before taking a break. We need to vote on the draft Order on how to explain the work of the 9th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, this is registration number 8662. Vladimir Yavorowski. It's all clear here, dear fellows. So it's a traditional decision. I'm voting on the adoption of the Order on the Order of Enlightenment of the 9th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, registration number 8662. It's the same tradition that we have in every session. Please vote. For -330. Thank you. It's been decided. So, dear colleagues, there is now a break of up to 13 hours. At 13 a.m., we will listen to questions related to the gas problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u98	Yes, I ask the Secretariat to invite members of the National Parliament to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister and ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The issue of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on energy security and the causes of the conflict and the consequences of the settlement of the relationship between Ukraine and Russia on the basis of the corresponding agreement of 4 January 2006 between NAC Naftogaz and VAT “Gazprom”. [[Ukraine]] [[Russian Federation]] Dear colleagues, the following rules of procedure are proposed: The Prime Minister of Ukraine is proposing for information in 15 minutes, answers to questions, if they are, I think, in 20 minutes, let's limit ourselves, right? Then we planned that the Minister of Fuel and Energy and the head of the “Ukrainian Naftobaz” would speak with the co-reports. Since they are not there, they offer us the first substitutes. I believe that this is disrespect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not listen to the information of the first deputies, but simply give a proper assessment. The same is true of the first deputy minister of foreign affairs in Ukraine. So the Prime Minister's speech, the answers to the questions, and then the discussion of this issue with statements from each faction. And then we move on to making decisions. No warning? And the committee would like me to prepare for the committee. Prime Minister of Ukraine Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov is invited to the rostrum. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues! First of all, let us greet you with the New Year, with the Christmas of Christ, and wish you good, health, harmony, and success. Let's talk about the main thing. The issue of energy supply for Ukraine as a State that mainly imports them has been relevant throughout all years of independence. Thus, today’s government has not missed this problem. Legally in these circumstances and today’s hearing in the Supreme Council. Ukraine’s energy system works in the current winter maximum loads without accidents and major crashes. Power, heat, and natural gas demand are fully secured. About 50 percent of electricity is now produced at 13 nuclear power grids, and two nuclear power cells are in planning and pre-renovation. All AES energy clouds are supplied with nuclear fuel. Heat plants produce 41 percent of electricity, 68 percent of which is based on coal, and about 30 percent on natural gas. Coal stocks at thermal stations amount to more than 2.3 million tons, a quarter more than last year. In addition, warehouses of coal companies have accumulated an energy supply of 747.8 thousand tons of coke — 266,000 tons. These stocks allow us to look optimistically at the prospects for wintertime in electricity companies. Now, on the most pressing gas issue. In its negotiation process, the Ukrainian side came from four points of principle. First, the need to ensure a country's gas balance of 76 billion cubic meters in the condition that it is impossible to save an old, actually barter gas accounting system. We all know the real political value of cheap energy carriers. Secondly, the need to provide a transitional period for industry and utilities to gradually adapt to market prices for energy. Thirdly, the constant compliance of all documents, and about 20 of them, which are compiled between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, between our governments and between our countries, as well as between the entities that regulate our relationship in the gas field. Fourthly, Ukraine's obligations as a transit country to supply gas continuously to European countries. The intensity of the negotiations was due to a great deal of problems of a technological nature, without which it was impossible to move to monetary forms of accounting. Of course, there was also a political taste. Unfortunately, it has to be noted that today some, both in Russia and in Ukraine, want to cross out all the better things that we had in the past and, on the other hand, to cross out the perspective of Ukraine as an independent state. Honorable national MPs, you admit, have begun to aggravate the situation from the Russian side’s demands to set new, much higher prices for their gas without proper discussion and reconciliation of positions. In a similar situation, we could, as some political radicals today demand, go to the defense of the deaf, demanding the undisputed execution of existing agreements. Yes, we really had confidence that we would be able to prove our right in the courts, especially in the Stockholm International Court of Justice. But it takes months, perhaps years, to process. And who would need our rightfulness, a few years from now without gas, a ruined industry, and a social sphere? Unless those who are accustomed to sacrificing to the interests of the country and the people for the sake of petty politics and some seeming advantage for the elections. On the other hand, reputations are often more important than the actual results. Thanks to its constructive position, Ukraine has preserved and even strengthened its international reputation as a trusted partner, our position has been supported by the European Union. Under such conditions, refusing to negotiate would mean betraying the historic choice of a country, its civilized prospects. Based on this understanding of the situation, we have also informed the Russian Federation Government and the management of Gazprom's Open Shareholder Society about our vision of the further negotiation process. The president of Ukraine, in his telegram to the President of the Russian Federation, supported Russia’s proposal to move to a market model in the gas field. He offered to invite international experts on these issues and, during the first decade of January, to conclude negotiations and sign a gas contract in 2006. The president also stressed the need for non-marketable methods of interaction that could create difficulties in the supply and transit of natural gas. Under these conditions, we continued to work within existing intergovernmental agreements and external economic contracts. We hoped that by the time the New Year came, there would be a fundamental way for further cooperation to solve the problem. But this did not happen as it wanted to. Despite ongoing constructive proposals by the Ukrainian side, its willingness to discuss the terms and values of changes in tariff prices to natural gas has not been achieved. And at 10 a.m. on January 1st this year, Gazprom began to lower the pressure and volume of gas supply to about 120 million cubic metres per day. We were ready to work under these harsh conditions. The government acted adequately. The primary source of gas was gas, utilities, heat, and budget organizations. In parallel with the intensification of negotiating processes, we have taken serious organizational steps to work in new conditions. On December 23, the government discussed the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers in 2006. The adopted decision envisaged measures to reduce natural gas consumption in Ukraine. The set of measures was designed to be implemented through the introduction of alternative and spare fuels and energy-saving technologies. The government has been set up to actively implement energy conservation and industrial upgrading policies. The measures that will be taken in this direction will be short - term and long - term. Short-term is such as the disposal of excess inefficient aggregates, the reduction in the time of idle technological aggregates, the replacement of natural gas used in the domain production of coke gas and coke metallurgical, the reduction in the consumption of natural gas per unit of chemical production, based on the modernization of primary production and so on. Long-term measures are those that envision the introduction of modern technologies based, for example, on the principles of continuous spillage of steel in rolling production and so on. Dear colleagues, the next chronicle of events was the following. On December 28, the government held a meeting on energy security for the national economy, the population in 2006, with the participation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, heads, district heads, and the Kiev City and Sevastopol City Administrations. On December 31st, the government adopted Decree No.1308 on ensuring a balance between the arrival and distribution of natural gas in the 1st quarter of 2006 in a situation where negotiations with the Russian side were not completed, and the conditions for transit of Russian gas in Ukraine were defined, and the conditions for movement of natural gas across the border in the 1st quarter of 2006. On December 31st, the Order of Cabinet of Ministers No. 581, on measures to secure the population, the sectors of the national economy with natural gas, was adopted in January 2006, where we set limits for consumers in the region. On January 2, the government held a selector's meeting on energy security under the constraints on natural gas supply. Operational headquarters have been established. In addition, the Ukrainian side regularly informed the public of its position. As a result of these and other actions, the Russian side restored the proper pressure in the Ukrainian gas transport system, and the negotiations concluded on January 4 with the signing of the agreement. What do we have today? First, Ukraine has a gas supply and consumption balance. Second, a company chosen by the Russian side will supply gas to the Ukrainian border at a price of $95 per thousand cubic metres. There's going to be a Ukrainian-Russian joint venture on the border, where the Ukrainian side will invest money, plus, if someone's very interested, tables and chairs. Its leader will be appointed by the Ukrainian side. Because there's a lot of speculation from this point right over here, I want to point out the following. In large numbers, we should not worry about who is there and who is selling gas to our borders. We should be interested in the price at the entrance, $95 per thousand cubic metres of natural gas, which is not a bad price, considering the European price environment. And how many times is the gas going to be sold to our border and at what price, it's none of our business. Third. The Ukrainian and Russian sides agreed that changes in gas prices and gas transit would take place only if agreed by both sides. In addition to contracts between owners, an intergovernmental agreement will be signed. Our governments are to sign the Protocol 2006 to the Agreement between the Governments of the two countries since 4 October 2001. This protocol will clarify the conditions of transit and gas supply for the current year as a whole. The Cabinet of Ministers has commissioned the preparation of a draft protocol that will be approved at a government meeting. It will also be approved as required by the Law on International Contracts, the composition of a government delegation, the relevant directives for negotiations. Proposals for the initiation of such negotiations will be sent to the Russian side as soon as possible. Four. The price of gas for industrial objects will be determined according to the level of energy consumption and will be differentiated. A preliminary analysis of the gas resistance indicates that Ukraine has received: the expansion of sources of gas balance in Ukraine; the price of natural gas supplied to Ukraine is much lower than the prices for post-Radians countries, which are mostly 110 dollars for our entire environment, except for Belarus. At the same time, Eastern European countries will be purchasing gas at $250-270 in the first quarter. Higher rates agreed for transit of Russian gas in Ukraine amounting to $1.6 per thousand cubic miles [100 km] away are higher than in Slovakia. And it will provide additional NAC "Naftobaz" to Ukraine's funds to modernize the gas transport system. The Naftogaz of Ukraine has been given time to 5 years to prepare the gas transport system for work in the European Power Order System. A mechanism has been created to prevent sharp price increases and to ensure a gradual increase in the price of gas for industrial consumers for five years. During this time, energy - efficient technologies and alternative fuels can be introduced. The European Union’s ability to form a competitive gas market under the control of the State to stimulate the arrival of gas from other countries and at the same time to curb the rise in the price of gas for final consumers has been achieved. Providing revenue to the Ukrainian State Budget from the activities of the joint venture, which is envisaged to be created under Ukrainian jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the negotiations have been difficult, and each party has shown firmness and perseverance. Our society was so engrossed in the current gas issue that it was even commented on by those who had no idea of the complexity and extent of the country’s energy supply problem. And with some comments, some Ukrainian officials have done political, economic damage to the country’s interests. Finally, the agreements signed are a compromise. Negotiations are ongoing, necessary clarifications and clarifications will be made, and appropriate external economic contracts will be made. I want to assure you that the government has acted and will continue to work, taking into account only the protection of Ukraine's national interests. Today, the President of Ukraine went to Almaty, where he will meet with the President of the Russian Federation, and the dialogue on gas supply will continue at the level of the presidents of both countries. I report to the Supreme Council, according to Minfin, the additional cost of maintaining budgetary institutions, the organizations are small, so there is no need to look at these amounts as a whole during the budget review. And we settle all questions with monthly assignments. The other one. With regard to housing-communal tariffs, the government sees it as inappropriate to adopt a regulation on the increase of 25 per cent of the maximum price for natural gas. This decision was adopted by the NCRE, but it was not appropriate. In this regard, the government agrees with the position of the Supreme Council, which is reflected in decree 20.10 last year. So prices for the population are going to stay at the current level. Thank you for your attention, I hope that you will understand and support our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u100	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, questions, please. If you have any questions, please sign up for the Prime Minister. We agreed 20 minutes to ask. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Gennady Samofalov, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u101	Dear Yuri Ivanovic, “Regions of Ukraine”, Political Party of the Regions. I know you as an experienced organizer who has gone through all stages of his work. I have a question for you, Yuri Ivanovich. As you yourself, as Head of Government, your government specialists may have allowed the situation that has arisen today to provide the Ukrainian population with warmth. Because you know that the winter preparations have always started in the Soviet days in the spring, and today the same situation has continued. Today, unfortunately, there is little heat in Ukrainian apartments. That's not what I'm saying, but I'm listening to what's being broadcast on television screens today. Today, unfortunately, we have not heard from you in any interview, but what has happened today is the situation that you are reporting on the conclusion of a treaty in particular in Ukraine's economy related to the work of industrial enterprises. I mean, the chemical industry and the metal industry. These. Not today. I would like to know how, however, why you have come to the conclusion today only at the end of December that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u102	I can report that the restrictions on gas for consumption by the population were removed by the fifth number in the evening. On the sixth, I announced it everywhere, and all the telegrams were received on time at 23 p.m. Concerning the limits for industrial enterprises, such as those already removed, but there will be differential tariffs to stimulate, gas consumption needs to be reduced. Simple calculations show that 10 per cent of Ukrainian gas consumption is not worth reducing. I agree with you that we had to work more intensively in this direction to get everyone to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u103	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u104	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Yuri Ivanovich, I have two questions. First. You're not going to tell me who's standing from natural persons in the founders of Rossukrenergo on the Ukrainian side, or do you know Russian? That's the first one. And the second. People say there's never been a cheap gas in the world. So it wasn't worth 50 dollars before, not 95 now, it's worth as much as it costs. This is the excess of these, or they say that money goes to others, not the budget, but goes not at all by appointment or appointment to individuals, and they don't believe in these values that we bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u105	I don't know who's standing for Rosukreenergo, I know that there's Raiffa and Gazprombank. And this structure, which now actually has all the transit of Asian gas in the north and towards Ukraine is represented by the Russian side, the Ukrainian side has no investment and no presence. It's about gas. The cost of gas in Ukraine is about $36 today. So far, in Poltava, when I was in Poltava district, I was told that this is going to be about 20 bracelets, and today we're at a cost, and unfortunately, we're losing our company's gas pipelines, and we're losing our acquisitions. I think by another activity, they're equalizing it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u106	Yuri Orobec, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u107	Yuri Ivanovich, reported in Russian media that senior officials and senior representatives of the Ukrainian political group had not consulted the Russian side in favour of Ukraine during the gas conflict. Their names were Clovis, Boyka, Bakaya. Can you confirm or refute this information? Because I'm with this at the same time. I ask questions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please consider this an official request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u108	I can only answer one thing. That on the Russian side was a very qualified position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u109	Mikhail Sithina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u110	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u111	Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u112	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, did I rightly understand that the actual agreement was not between governments, but between commercial structures, what is more, between the commercial structure of the trader, which is "Roskre Energo"?Oh, my God! And we're still planning to create one trader as a joint venture between Naftogaz Ukraine and Rosukreenergo? So what is the government's influence on these structures? And how will this affect the economy of our businesses and utilities? Do we, or do you have the right to interfere, or do you not have the right to interfere with the activities of these commercial structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u113	Thank you. Unfortunately, the government of the Russian Federation, like the Government of Ukraine, does not supply, divide, or extract gas. There are state companies, which are 100 percent NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, in which the government actually controls the situation, because there is a supervisory board, there are appropriate governance mechanisms. Regarding commercial structures, how they can be affected, the Russian side influences in such a way that, well, state regulation is, there are rules to play. That's why we want to sign an annual agreement with the government of the Russian Federation, in which we would define the guarantees of those deals that were 4 numbers. As far as they are concerned, they will execute or fail to carry out commercial structures. Well, the thing is, we don't have much choice in transporting gas across the territory outside Ukraine. The gas is being transported to the border of Turkmenistan-Uzbekistan and we are providing from the border of the Russian Federation-Ukraine. Thus, in this period, the entire gas Gazprom has been transferred to Rosukre Energo. She's the only one who can make deals right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u114	I want to complete Vassil Kalinczuk's answer. The alphabet is that Naftogaz Ukraine has no right to create joint ventures. Please. Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u115	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u116	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u117	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The government claims that under the agreement, the price of gas can only be changed by the consent of the parties and is boasting about it. But paragraph 5 says that the rates of payment defined in this agreement may be changed, I would stress, the definitions. And only one price per 95 dollars is defined. Period. And that's the price that's going to change according to the consent of the parties. Since July 1, Russia has set $230. Raises the price of Turkmenistan. Ukraine in a debt pit in front of Russia, which means losing independence. And the second. You have severed the transit price of gas. And the third. Finally, who's going to decide on the transformations that will occur between Russia and Ukraine. Because even criminal authorities wrote that disputes would be decided by the Stockholm Court or by a court of another country. You were in such a hurry that you didn't even write it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u118	Thank you. The cost of the gas is $95, and it's the first half because the Ukrainian side can transport the first half of the gas at $80. And this part of the gas that we get is going to be on the balance sheet there: half of the 23 billion that we can transport in the first half of the year is going to go to 80. And after the first half of the year, it will only go at 95, because the price in Turkmenistan is agreed with us: the first half is 50, and the second half is 60 dollars, and the gas appears on the border of Turkmenistan is Uzbekistan. That's what this is all about. With regard to dispute resolution and so on. When the final contracts and supplements are concluded, everything will be determined. Since all the agreements thus far are valid and valid, appropriate jurisdiction will be exercised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u119	Alexander Alexanderus Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u120	Dear Yuri Ivanovich! I have a few questions, I'd like to answer them. First. Before the New Year, there was a statement by Vladimir Putin that in the first quarter it was only possible to work on the old scheme and then the conditions would be reviewed. What happened at this time that a new covenant was signed so quickly? The second question is this. This is today's Energy Vice Prime Minister or not, because the President has been announced that he's already signed, and there's actually no Vice Prime Minister, we need to explain the point. Let's move on. Before the New Year, there were many declarations of the validity of treaties that have a long period. Who will now be the guarantor of the signed covenant? Where is the guarantee that it will continue to work? And finally. Is there a conclusion of Mineconomy about GDP changes and income figures for the budget after the introduction of new prices. And finally, because I have a few seconds. Russia put $230 per thousand cubic meters, it did it. So where's the compromise?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u121	I think the Russian Federation went to the negotiating process a lot faster because the external political situation that happened required it. Both the political part and the economic part of the government have come together in their efforts to come out of the crisis that arose with Ukraine. As for the Deputy Prime Minister. There is an appointment, but it's not being published. Take it easy. The assignment has taken place. I'm waiting for a message from the President's Secretariat. The work of the covenants. Alexander Alexander, are you correct in what respect? An agreement has been signed between the host entities. In order for this to be both the role of Gazprom and the role of governments, there will be an intergovernmental agreement to foresee it. I accept the criticism and Rudzkowski, who spoke on this subject, all of it. We listen very carefully to all that has happened during this time. Well, 40 percent were very constructive questions that we really have to answer right now. And about Mineconomy. This morning the next meeting was on this subject. Well, you know, last year's rate, like inflation, is a little bit better than we've been predicting and so on. Now we're waiting for reports and total work in a year. I don't think there's any point in looking at the prognosis right now. This can be only when we receive all the necessary reports. I think it might not be before March-month, because the current reporting system won't give you the data you need sooner. Major macroindicators. I can't see that when we raise prices, we're talking about some significant deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u122	Anatoly Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u124	Mikola Nightshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u125	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian National Block. Yuri Ivanovich, Lithuanian People’s Block, constantly at a moratorium on gas prices for the population. You also confirmed this at the very end of your speech. But on December 29, you signed an order that agreed with the NCRA's proposal, paragraph seven, to raise gas prices for all consumers, including the population to an economically sound level. I have a question: When are you honest, or when you speak on the stand, or when you sign orders? Will you withdraw this order to prevent NCRA from raising prices for the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u126	Thank you. Again. The NCRE was prepared, and a 20 - percent price increase was made. In view of the successful conclusion of the negotiations, and under the influence of the arguments presented by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin himself, the government reviewed the issue. And that's why I'm stressing once again that there's no need to avenge this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u127	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u128	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition bloc “No!” [[united]] Dear Yuri Ivanovich, there are two elements to the problem. Legal: We had a contract that stipulated that by 2009, transit was at the same price, and we were given 50 dollars of gas. Today, this agreement has not changed from anything from the initiative of Ukraine in the spring, and we have gas that is more expensive, I think it will be even more expensive. Please tell me, who will be personally responsible for the fact that this agreement, which was iron concrete for Ukraine in international law, was dissolved and Gazprom, frankly, grabbed Ukraine's tongue and achieved what he wanted? That's the first one. And the second. Does the President of Ukraine know that, according to Reuters experts, Ukraine's direct losses in 2006 will amount to $2.9 billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u129	With regard to the termination of the “Ironized” Treaty. There have been attempts by the Ukrainian side to actually make changes to Appendix Four. There were appropriate directives and all. I'm afraid I can't say that because you know that the directives are under the appropriate graph. But since this has not happened, there is nothing to talk about. One thing I can say is that the government's decision, which was prepared for this, was to leave the area on September 10th. She didn't come out. As far as the estimates are concerned, Reuters. You know, I would advise you: there are calculations of the European Commission, there are calculations of credit phoost Boston, and there are a lot of different calculations on the Internet in general. Very interesting calculations, as an expert, believe me, are ready to discuss the subject with you. In these days, in two weeks, we have received so many macroeconomic calculations, other calculations. You have to believe that in the topic we are all already, that entire headquarters is completely on the subject, in all matters, ready to discuss, even with Reuters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u130	Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u131	Stepan Cloud Ukrainian National Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha Dear Yuri Ivanovich, please tell us why this is not coordinated with regard to the assessment of the signed agreement. It is clear that this is an exhausting compromise, which, for example, led to by Ukraine not by the governments that did not prepare Ukraine's independence from a single pipe controlled by Russia. And here, as some say, it's a victory, it's brilliant -- it's wrong, it's first. And please tell me why these transit tariffs have been signed for five years, and we only have half a year's gas price? And please tell me how the negotiations were affected by the position of some factions that are hurting Ukraine today, who wanted to break the budget, send the government to retirement, while you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u132	Stepan Ilkovich, I want to say that, in principle, we acted, and the question of evaluation is the question of the people's deputies, it's a question of the people. And you'll appreciate what we've been doing, what you're actually doing. I can tell you this is an agreement that has been signed for five years. And we're going to do everything we can to keep this stable for five years. We have to give the Ukrainian economy these five years to rebuild. Normally, I'm talking to metallurgy and chemists, there's three years maximum that we have to get out of the situation and shut down our domain stoves to go to other ways of doing things. And with regard to position, I can only say one thing, which is a complete feeling, there is a complete sense of support for people, support for the people, and when there is no such support, and there is a position of political power. And actually, Ukrainian society has divided. And we felt it. And even when the government delegation was in Moscow, and when we read the words of our different politicians, you know, it didn't always help our position. Because everyone's watching the air very closely right now. I want to stress one more time. We're going to create all the conditions for our industry, our agriculture to be rebuilt. We consume gas 2.6 times more than the average in the world. There can be no such thing. With the volume of gas consumption, we are in the seventh place in the world. Well, are we the biggest country in the world to eat that gas? It's a stateless thing, first of all, it's a lack of new technologies. We'll do everything we can to get these technologies in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u133	Mikola Porovsky, last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u134	Mikola Porovski, faction of the Rebirth Party. Mr. Prime Minister, by solving the crisis in the gas relations between Ukraine and Russia, you and the government you led have passed an examination to protect Ukrainian national interests. With this we welcome you and support this position of yours. Questions. Please model the situation if the agreement on the settlement of relations in the gas field is not signed. What would Ukraine expect? And the second. A recent shift in the leadership of the State Committee on Energy Conservation has taken place. But there is no solution to the question of restoring the work of this committee, especially since there was a person in office who did not put anything in the field of energy conservation or recommended himself as a proper expert in this field because he came there out of the conjunctural interest. Tell me, what will be the fate of the State Energy Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u135	The Authority, the State Energy Administration, will have to work. And now, you're well aware that we absolutely need to do everything right now in order to be able to get into a serious state energy conservation programme. Here is the President's decree on Ukraine's state of energy security and the basic principles of state policy in the area of its security. Now the government is preparing the necessary materials and by the end of January, in early February, we're going to have an open government meeting with experts and experts to show us how we're going, where we're going to be going, how much energy we're going to consume over the years, a few decades ahead. All of this will be done. And what's happening now is a good lesson for us Ukrainians to come to a conclusion and to start referring to energy resources, to start writing them in big letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u136	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we would have performances from factions. Is there no warning on this? Yes. I'm going to watch, there's a lot of people here, and I'm only going to propose to those who signed up for the faction. To other factions, please apply to the secretariat. Mikola Porowski, please prepare for Santa Noshenko. Porovski from Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u137	Dear Head, Reverend Prime Minister. Statement by the faction of the Political Party Rebirth. The provision of energy resources to Ukraine in the face of a deficit in its own production is one of the most difficult economic problems and one of the most important tasks of government activity. The global trend of a major oil and gas increase, Ukraine’s dependence not only on contracts of Turkmen, Russian gas, but also on its delivery through the Russian Federation’s territory makes Ukraine dependent on many circumstances and conditions on the Russian side and on Gazprom. Gazprom's refusal of the previously defined gas price agreement and the threat of halting deliveries to Ukraine, demonstrative preparation of gas tap overlaps, a significant reduction in gas supply in the first decade of this year, a large-scale information company on unsanctioned gas selection by the Ukrainian side, and that Ukraine is supplying gas at prices much lower than the domestic prices in the Russian Federation have placed the government in an extremely difficult situation. The faction of the Political Party of Rebirth is deeply concerned about these political speculations about the gas theme, because for certain political forces, national interests and economic stability have become a different coin in the political game. Such actions demonstrate the desire to take advantage of any cause in the electoral campaign for their own benefit and have nothing to do with the real concern for citizens, the interests of Ukraine and Ukrainian producers. This became particularly evident during the period of not simple negotiations on the gas issue, when the government's consistent position on protecting the interests of Ukrainian consumers was being tried by individual politicians to weaken by irresponsible political statements. We have witnessed the rise of patriotism among our citizens, but we have also seen those for whom the principle works: “The worse is the better.” However, if the government went the way that the biggest criticisms of the new agreement were: to seek to execute the Gazprom of the old agreement, the old prices and conditions, we would have an endless trial today in the European Court of Justice, an empty gas pipe, a cold in citizens' apartments and a halt to the vast majority of businesses. Perhaps that is what the lessors were counting on about national interests. A new gas agreement between Russia and Ukraine has allowed the tensions of recent months in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, and a balanced and constructive approach by the government has provided an acceptable price for Ukrainian companies for gas, an increase in transit rates and the possibility of diversification of gas supplies. Ukraine will buy time to reorganize in this area. The final price of gas was nearly two and a half times lower than the one the Russian side insisted on. Given that Ukrainian companies have already paid 80 to 90 dollars for a thousand cubic metres of gas, the real cost for them will only increase by 10 to 15 percent. Rate increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u138	Please, Yuri Kostenko from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Yuri Kostenko from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready for Michael Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party notes, firstly, the newly signed agreement between Ukraine and Russia on the conditions for gas supply does not correspond to the national interests of the State, either by its content or by the professional level of its preparation by NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine. In addition to this, we claim otherwise, on the question of whether this covenant could have been better in the heat of winter, we must honestly admit that it is not. Because Russia has demonstrated the same approach over and over again in many countries. Consider how the Baltic States, after declaring independence, suffered from the cold of two winters because Russia blocked the supply of energy. But after creating an alternative energy supply system in just two years, in the Baltic today, there's heat in the homes, and there's a European standard of living. Remember our own practice, our big neighbor has always used the so - called gas or oil pot to solve all the problems. This was the case with the distribution of the Black Sea fleet, the assets of the former USSR, including the savings of Ukrainians in the Union Savings, as was the case when Russia was not counting on our nuclear weapons when it refused to recognise the Ukrainian state border or claimed to be on Tuzla Island. Because energy dependence always turns to political dependence for the state, a neighboring Belarus with this example. In this regard, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party raises the question in principle. Why did no Ukrainian President and no government raise the issue of energy security to the top state priorities in nearly 15 years of independence? Why does Ukraine’s economy consume more and more expensive energy from year to year instead of shrinking? Why no alternative energy supply system has been built in Ukraine in years of independence, the use of national energy resources, coal, or the production of nuclear fuel is not effective. Why our enormous potential for energy conservation is not realized or affected. The faction responsibly states that the situation of the longstanding uncontrolled energy supply of Ukraine by the senior government has led not only to today’s crisis but also to the enormous economic losses and looting of the Ukrainian people. It was on such opaque Ukrainian-Russian energy relations that oil kings and gas princesses were born both in Ukraine and in Russia. It was the energy stealing that raised the oligarchs and the clans on one side, and the poor Ukrainian people on the other. So our faction doesn't just talk about the responsibility of an active government, we're going to go after the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u140	Yes, Mikola Nightshenko. Prepare Yuri the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u141	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, distinguished voters, as the field of battle is presented by journalists in the process of solving the gas problem, which is worth the headlines “The Gas War”, “The War Continues” and so on. Today, though, Yuri Ivanovich said well what had happened. But let's start with what we had, what we started with. A stable supply of gas to Ukraine, a stable price that everyone understood at the entrance of $50. It's 90. A great victory. Who are the winners? Again, we're not talking about the winners, or politicians, who are involved in what happened between Russia and Ukraine was broken, who wanted to give up the barter and waited for Russia to do everything it wanted over Ukraine. Who are these politicians? These are hot-hearted politicians, suspended boards all over Ukraine, clean hands, or cold-headed politicians today, the Prime Minister has reported, and I sincerely believe that the price of gas for the population and the enterprises of heat will not rise. Yuri Ivanovich, I ask you to withdraw paragraph 7 of your order. Yuri Ivanovich, block the NCRU regulation, which has already been adopted, to increase the gas for thermal power companies. Now two words. What is NCRU? National commission! And the government always hides itself as a flag. It's not us, it's NCRU, it's a state institution that exists at the expense of the state budget and it's hurting the population! Is it Swiss or Ukrainian?Oh, my God! If you are Ukrainian, you will remember that there are 18.5 billion cubic metres of gas in Ukraine, enough for the Ukrainian people. If you are Ukrainian, you should remember that the Supreme Council in this room, with 307 votes in October, imposed a moratorium on the price of gas. Why do we keep the whole Ukrainian people under pressure for three months? The faction The People’s Block of Lithuania has been constantly speaking and will be in favour of maintaining stability in the gas market. That is why we urge today, after this discussion, to immediately vote on the decision to enforce the Supreme Council's adopted decision to impose a moratorium on gas for the population and the thermal energy companies in 2006 and to conduct a service investigation and to hold those responsible for this conflict accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u142	Yuri Orobec, “Our Ukraine” faction, prepare Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! Here comes the moment of truth, the end of the gas conflict, the beginning of the Ukrainian gas. In fact, in the drop of water, we can see who was with whom to go to this day. Had the opposition’s intentions not to accept the budget and resign the government had been realized, how weakened Ukraine would be. And I think these intentions of continuing in the ancient world have nothing to do with the issue of national security. In fact, to strengthen and weaken government when one branch of government is reelected, putting national security at risk. And so it wasn't by chance that I asked about how Ukrainian politicians behaved during that time, who went to the Whitestone and made what statements that Ukraine was blackmailing. Now, everybody's complaining about a billboard company that exists, but which has been moved from the western borders of Ukraine to the east. And they don't call the real masters of this construction company, and they're afraid to call it Putin. The great interests of the state have changed to the interests of a large, gas - gas political pocket. And that's what we need to realize. But Putin’s name is not called Putin because they are afraid of losing media support in elections; others fear that criminal cases will be repeated against them, loved ones. The question is, Do politicians now propose a normal political product? Some say that such firms are not needed. And when they were in power, they put up their "Itera" company to remember themselves, loved ones. I believe that there is a nation in this situation that can unite. And so I propose to stop the gas, stop the humiliation of my own government. The government did everything they could. And I would like to say that I know how hard the dispatchers worked, which, within two or three hours of 10 a.m. on January 1st. Because Russia thought it was going to be two days of collapse. I saw how clearly the government and the president were working, which for the first time in 14 years did not bend to Russia. And I believe that in this situation we need to unite and go to the polls with dignity, for this is a method of compromise. Ukraine stood up with dignity for itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u144	Yes, Vladimir Bronnikov. “Ukraine” faction. Prepare Sergey Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions unfortunately notes. If the Supreme Council had heard and appreciated, at an extraordinary meeting on 29 December, as we have proposed, the Government on the issue of resolving the gas conflict with Russia; if Parliament had previously assessed the commercial intentions and professional capabilities of the leadership of Kabmin and Naftogaz of Ukraine to uphold the interests of the people of Ukraine, the interests of the economy of Ukraine would not have been affected by the energy collapse in the country. We have had a chance to separate the personal obligations of the current Ukrainian leadership from the United States, the Russianophobia of the foreign political office and Naftogaz leaders from the needs of Ukrainians in whatever regions they do not live in. The Faction of the Party of the Regions states that the gas supply contract signed on 4 January 2006 to Ukraine is a crime because it causes significant economic damage to the population, both in direct procurement of gas for personal purposes and in the payment of housing and utilities. It is a crime because industry loses its chance to restructure with the introduction of energy-efficient technologies, which means that there will be job cuts, unemployment growth and mass poverty. It is a crime because it leads to a sharp deterioration in the environment, as the transition to alternative fuels is linked to increased emissions to the environment. It is a crime because it results in a sharp reduction in income to the 2006 budget, which means that pension increases and wages are a lie to the authorities. We are, in fact, offered to forget about improvement, education, health. The treaty is a crime because it enshrines Ukraine's vassal position before the United States and NATO. Strengthens Ukrainians in the role of black workers in the markets of Europe and Russia. This treaty is a change in Ukraine's strategic interests in the global struggle for the remaining energy resources for which the United States is literally fighting with fire and sword and Europe with a sly policy that excludes Ukraine from Russia, which has 50 per cent of the world's energy resources. Many remember how one leader from this rostrum gave an illustration of a supreme one who, in truth, said that Ukrainians would always be poor because they would never have such leaders. Colleges, it's 2006. The responsibility for the country has been transferred to this Hall, so the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to hold consultations immediately and to resign the wrongs and to fill the Kabmin with professionals, patriots of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u146	Sergey Sobolev of the “Reform and Order” faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u147	Faction of the Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues! Now, if we're going to speak for 10 minutes like this, it turns out that Putin is an agent of the CIA that operates within the framework of American imperialism, promoting Ukrainian market contracts. I would like us to return to the sinful earth and clearly appreciate the actions of the government and the actions of the negotiators, which were conducted not only in the last week but also in the previous months. What have we come up with in these negotiations? With the old system, where middle-sized services and retorts were constantly active and made up billions of dollars. We went to these negotiations, when actually the requirements for market conditions and market price were exclusively for gas, forgetting that market conditions and market price are for gas transit, there are market conditions for the Black Sea fleet lease, there are market conditions for RLS rental. And I wonder why the government, after signing this contract, is now silent and does not say that negotiations should continue with the Russian side on the conditions of payment for the Russian Black Sea fleet's presence at a ridiculous price in Ukraine, as far as the multibillion RLS installations located in Ukraine continue to be leased to the Russian military and space assets of Russia for copies. And I think that the constant position of Parliament that these negotiations should be continued in the same way is to support Ukraine's national interests. The other one. What is the contract signed today? Yuri Ivanovich, unfortunately, was not able to ask you this question. Please tell us in closing, is there a contract with Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan at prices that have been concluded for a long time? Secondly, is there a contract signed between Rao Gazprom and Naftogaz Ukraine for the period until 2013, which was actually denounced by the Yanuković government and fixed at an entirely different rate by 2009? The answer to that question provides an opportunity for a real analysis of the contract that has been signed today. And the last. What should we do in this situation? And it seems to me that the only proposal of Parliament and the entire Ukrainian people that no one will give away any energy for free is to be dominant. Because when our colleague, then not yet Deputy Peter Sobashuk, launched the first congratulator in Zaporozhye. The installation was designed to prevent any kilowatts of energy from entering Ukraine's single system until now. And so far, there are all the limits that exist. So we urge you to take an urgent approach to the issue of this agreement, based on the national interests of Ukraine and to consider it in a complex with other agreements that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u148	Bogdan Hubsky, faction "The One Ukraine". Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The agreement signed by the government on 4 January with Gazprom, which is absolutely certain of this, is a betrayal of the interests of Ukraine, its people, because today the price of gas determines whether or not to be Ukrainian enterprises. And that means that millions of our fellow countrymen will be out of work, without pay. We see that since January 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers has increased the price of gas for the population by 25 percent. By the way, maybe the government doesn't know that thermocommunergo signs the price of gas at almost twice as much as it was before January 1st. The question is: why did the government sign a $230 contract if there is a corresponding addition of four to the contract between Gazprom and Naftogaz, which is in effect before 2009, and the supply of gas under it should be $50. No explanation was given, by the way. Tomorrow, I can tell you, Turkmenistan, following the example of Russia, will also sign 230 -- and you will do nothing about it. And if you do, explain how. And that's when all the gas is imported by a private structure. A legitimate question arises: Why did you go to the signing of this treaty, which is frankly harmful, as you might say? It's incompetence, or something else, or corruption. Who's going to prove it? Who's going to show? No one explained or explained anything. It was said that the price of gas does not rise for the population. I would like to emphasize that the thermalcommunerge is signed by district gas contracts at twice the price. Maybe the government doesn't know about this? So what does he run, then, I'm sorry?Oh, my God! And you don't have to throw it at the president who's in charge of the government. Since January 1st, I can tell you, not the President, but the Supreme Council is responsible for the government's actions. And according to a new edition of part 12 of article 85, today the Supreme Council, without the participation of the President, has the right and the opportunity to legally resign any member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, it is objectively up to those who voted in his favor or those who today do not vote in favour of his resignation to do so. I personally do not want to be responsible for such actions. As a result, we, firstly, insist on expressing distrust of the government, and the result is its resignation; secondly, to cancel the appropriate “Agreement” with “Gazprom” as one that contradicts the national interests of Ukraine; and third, to create an appropriate commission of inquiry that investigates all the circumstances of the matter and shows us a real picture of why and how it signed it. The relevant draft regulations of the Supreme Council have been introduced. Request to put them to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u150	Oleg Grigorovich Bilorus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u151	Deputy Oleg Belarus, BUT faction. Honorable MPs and citizens of Ukraine! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering more than just gas supplies in accordance with its new constitutional status. In fact, it's much more about the security of our nation's development, about energy and economic security, about state sovereignty, about national security, and about the protection of national interests. The agreement, or agreement, proposed to the people of Ukraine, threatens a complete collapse of a socio-economic nature for Ukraine. The current interim government has done great damage to the interests of the country and its citizens by its recent actions and signing this gas agreement. If the Supreme Council wants to be a higher body of the direct peoples, it must immediately cease the anti-constitutional actions of the Government and denounce the agreement. The draft regulation 8682 introduced by the BUT factions and the “One Ukraine” on the threat to Ukraine's national security in connection with the activities of the executive authorities in providing Ukraine with natural gas underlines that the agreement signed by the head of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” completely destroys interstate Ukraine – Russia – a reliable, stable and guaranteed gas security system by 1 January 2010. This is a crime against the people of Ukraine. Ukraine was put to the ground by the international semi-criminal structures of “Rosenergo” using the name of the State of Ukraine, which is the offshore arm of Russia’s power magnets. This international speculative firm does not give Ukraine any guarantees of gas supply or price. It pushes Ukraine out of the gas market and the gas transit system. The population of Ukraine will pay 25% extra for gas and 25 extra for electricity as of January 1. This is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine because it reduces prosperity. We demand that we immediately denounce an agreement that undermines the foundations of national security and the sovereignty of Ukraine. Create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the government's gas affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u152	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Please have the right to speak. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens. Let me make a statement to the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Recent developments in the gas field between Ukraine and Russia have finally removed the curtain from the relationship between Ukraine and the northern neighbour. It is as if the “brotherly” relations between Ukraine and Russia, fed by the Ukrainian people and continued to do so by individual politicians, have fully manifested themselves in a recent gas dispute. “Brotherhood” in relations, as has become clear from Russia’s position, perhaps only if Ukraine gives up its national interests and Russia imposes its imperial will. Such “brotherhood ” was demonstrated by the previous authorities, and this was how relations were built in the days of Kuchma, Yanukovich. And only with the arrival of the new power and the election of the Yushchenk by the President of Ukraine can the term “national interests” be found not only in the dictionary, it is a principle governed by the management of Ukraine and foreign political authority. The relationship between the two independent states, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, can only be regulated on the basis of market economy principles. It's an axiom that seems understandable to everyone. The faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine supports the settlement of relations between our states in the gas field. Not only does this approach, based on civilized market conditions, guarantee Ukraine’s economic and energy security. At the same time, market principles should be extended to all spheres of relations with our neighbors. We are convinced that the time has passed has passed for us to take a careful look at and organize the existing agreements that relate to the establishment of the Russian Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. The rent for the use of Ukrainian land and state property should be paid at prices that exist in the democratic world for similar services. At the same time, the gas conflict between Ukraine and Russia has demonstrated to all democratic countries that Russia is an unforeseeable, unreliable partner, in which the state may still have a unilateral change in the terms of existing treaties, in the resolution of the blackmail conflict, in over-responsible force approaches, unwarranted accusations of one state in a kind of theft, while at the same time using fraudulent methods to solve the problem. The Ukrainian authorities have been honoured to endure Russia's “kindly and fraternal” embraces, especially in the first days of the new year, and have fulfilled their obligations to the countries of the European Union on the basis of their own resources. The Ukrainian People's Movement is convinced that Ukraine's economic and energy independence is only possible if energy sources are diversified and the Ukrainian industry is converted into energy-efficient technologies. Ukraine's free economic and energy independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u154	Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Gurey's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think about what we're in a different role today, and the government is in a different role as well. Since January 1st, Ukraine's parliamentary-presidential republic, and because we're looking at the issues that we have in our relationship, much depends on the development of the economy, the social sphere and the functioning of the structures of power. Today I see there are draft regulations and calls – let's send the government out. I suspect that those people who make such proposals have not read the new Constitution, the new drafting of the articles of the Constitution, because that means that the Cabinet of Ministers will not be able to be formed within two months, and that means that the President has every reason on the basis of the Constitution to dissolve parliament, and we are unable to do something about the elections today. So today our task is to direct the government to a pragmatic specific job, but it has to do the same until after the elections on a proportional basis a coalition is formed in Parliament, which will assume responsibility for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers and its work. If someone doesn't understand it, let's do populism, you don't have to do it. It's different. What is lacking in the report today and in the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, these details are insufficient. And maybe he couldn't be ready for today, maybe even if a day or two would give him the opportunity to make those calculations, because talking about not raising the price of gas for the population doesn't mean anything. Today, the new component flows into industrial divisions, into the metallurgical complex, in the chemical and in all areas of production, which means that the structure of goods' worth, the price changes, and the population will pay a different price for goods, which it predicts, by the way, and the increase in gas itself. So let's be calm in this respect, not to jump to conclusions, but from the government we demand a few specific things, they are set out in a draft decree prepared by our deputies from the faction. And with regard to human resources, let the government look at it, because there have been many lashes, sorry for such a word, in previous times, from officials, and from external economics, and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and from the NAK “Naftogaz” of Ukraine, and not only. And you have to put in a structure like this: Supervisory boards in monopolistic companies. We need to know what NAK Naftogaz lives for today, how the price is shaped, where the money goes and so on, whatever the part that depends on the Ukrainian side. And we need to do a full audit of this company, because we all know that from there we have grown the wealth of the oligarchs of Ukraine instead of increasing the wealth of Ukraine itself. So I propose to vote in favour of a draft decision prepared by the Socialist MPs, he takes these circumstances into account, and now we don't have to believe that we lost everything, but we don't have to say that we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! I want to reassure you by quoting article 90, last paragraph. “The approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be suspended by the President of Ukraine in the last 6 months of the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or of the President of Ukraine.” I would ask you not to manipulate the Constitution. Vasil Guriev, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Get Valentine Matthew ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u157	Respected people's deputies, respected colleagues, I keep asking myself why our State has been indebted for gas for a long time, while the gas for our main customers of metal, chemistry, machinery and machinery is a commodity and is therefore included in the cost of goods. So when I look at today's issue, I want to say that we don't have to dramatize the situation. This process is objective. No State receives free gas. And we must prepare for that. And that today the price of $96 per thousand cubic metres of gas is just the first signal for Parliament to join forces with the Government and develop activities that will allow the country's industrial complex today to rebuild and prepare for the next stages, which unfortunately are inevitable for our country, for our industry. Therefore, I do not wish to say a positive solution, the State has benefited from it. Of course not. Any increase in price has an objective effect on the work of any industry, the industry of any State. But what I'm saying is that there's been some compromise today. And most of all, from where I started, today we've divided the transit from the cost of gas, and we're finally going to figure out how much fuel this is for our State or this raw material. I would like to draw attention to the appeal of the Union of Chemicals to the two presidents of the country. They clearly understood the policy and the inevitability of this process, and in addressing the presidents, they said that, yes, for us, it would be difficult, but we agreed to take these steps gradually. And now a few words to the government. There is very little time to reshape State industrial policy. Yuri Ivanovich, I turn to you, the depreciation policy is today imperfect and does not guide the real economy towards reconstruction. Second. I want to say that 50 per cent of the profits can be subtracted. This should be prescribed in government guidance documents only if the enterprise does not conduct energy-saving technologies and does not waste financial resources, i.e. the free balance of its return to reconstruction. I would like to see the new national agency created by the President's decree not only on energy savings, but also on alternative sources of fuel we have been working on. And I would like to address you as a representative of the industry. Let us move from a political perspective to a practical, pragmatic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u158	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, Communist faction, please. Prepare Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As we can see, the constant crises of last year ended with the gas crisis that he caused, and today the government itself has been talking about it, I would say, with a weak external and internal policy. Instead of insisting on communists to develop a mutually beneficial relationship with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan within the framework of the EP, Ukraine's role in the structures of the SND continues to be anti-State, anti-national policy. Doing everything possible and even impossible to get to NATO as soon as possible, WTO and so forth. At the same time, everyone understands that apart from Russia, no one will sell us the same gas. Russia’s unfriendly policy has turned to Ukraine’s rising energy prices. And, in general, it was important to consider that the free NAC leader Naftogaz Ukraine and also the head of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists should be entrusted with negotiating with Russia on the supply of gas, which he boldly and treacherously conducted with the translator. None of the government officials, in our view, thought or counted what the consequences would be for our economy and the unfortunate little Ukrainian. At the same time, more than half of the members of the government today, including, by the way, three NAC leaders “Naftogaz Ukraine” go in friendly ranks, doing pre-election work. That is why such a government deserves one thing — immediate retirement. In the government's assurance that the gas for the population will be delivered from its own extraction, we don't believe, because it's all privatized, and we know that the hungry will never understand. In view of what has been said, the Communist faction: 1) considers it unacceptable to increase tariffs on residential services consumed by natural gas and electricity. That's why we tabled a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. The other one. It is urgent to entrust the Court of Auditors of Ukraine with a comprehensive audit of NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” and its participation in the creation of a gas supplier, the intermediary. And the third. Remove immediately from the duties of NAK’s “Naftogaz Ukraine” leader Ichchenka and Minister of Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u160	Nestor Schufric, from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, has the floor to speak. [[united]] Igor Jeremeyev prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable colleagues, compatriots! Let us, after all, tell the truth about what really happened. A year ago, there was a contract under which gas was delivered to Ukraine at a price of $50 per thousand at the border of Russia and Ukraine. This treaty was in force until 2013, and under the Protocol to the Treaty, signed in 2004, the price was set before 2009. But our distinguished rulers in the face of Ivchenka, who, not in the interests of two fraternal, friendly peoples, but in the light of their party slogans, caused this treaty to be terminated on the initiative of the Ukrainian side. What Yushchenko said unreservedly on television last Wednesday. And he believed that this was Ukraine's achievement, that gas was now being delivered to us not by $50, but, they think, by $95, but in fact, by $230. At the same time, the transit and gas prices have been recorded. And if we received 15-20 per cent less for transit than neighbouring Slovakia and Germany, we had 4-5 times less gas than for the same Slovakia and Germany. This was indeed the protection of national interests. What do we have now? Today we have an increase of 2, or 2.5 times the price of gas for industry. But the wise say: "Industriousness endures." So you will explain this to a woman who now includes gas and is paying 25 per cent more today as of January just because Ivchenko wanted to speak to the head of the Russian Gazprom in Ukrainian. Explain why hot water, why utilities, why does the heat in the house have to be twice as expensive? Because you're broke because you're broke. So pay for it from your own pocket, not from the pocket of Ukrainians. Today's budget is at stake. National security is under threat today. Earlier on the obligations of energy security, Russia had responded to us as a State. And now it's an incomprehensible business structure. We are confident that we have witnessed the crime against the Ukrainian people. Those who have done so must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u162	Yes, Igor Jeremeyev is being pollinated before the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u163	Jeremiah Igor, the People’s Block of Lithuania Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today, we can talk for a long and long time in this room about the agreement that was signed on January 4, 2006. Is this agreement complete or not? No, it's not perfect. Is it convenient for the Ukrainian people and for the economy of Ukraine? No, it's inconvenient. Is the approach to this agreement right or wrong? No, it's wrong. Why? This is obvious and is understood by the 47 million Ukrainian people. And so today, television, press, the Supreme Council -- everybody's talking about what happened on January 4. But we can talk about this for a long time. This subject is obvious. But this is the result of what happens during 2005. Why? As early as January 2005, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said: “The main task of the new government, President of Ukraine Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, is a well - thought - out and reasonable human resources policy. To prevent the revolution from destroying professional personnel and resulting in suffering for the Ukrainian people and the economy of Ukraine.” Already in June, the People's Block of Lithuania stressed that the human resources policy that is now in Ukraine is destroying Ukraine's economy, and as a result, it is an oil crisis, it is a drop in prices for grain. And the final is the political crisis of autumn. When the entire Ukrainian people thought that we were building a new state, it turned out that the new authorities were looking for compromise on each other. As a result, the political council, the declaration of reunification for the future and the President of Ukraine say that there will be a change of government, a government of populists who have been given authority and started preparing for the 2006 elections for a new government of professionals. What happened? The Prime Minister has changed from the prime minister of the populist to the prime minister of the good-for-goods, who doesn't put his political ambitions behind him. The minister's office hasn't changed. And as a result, we're having an economic blow today -- this is the January 4, 2005, deal. So today, the People’s Block of Lithuania proposes a legal conclusion to the January 4 treaty. Instruct the Cabinet to immediately enter into the negotiation process and if possible cancel this agreement and return to the 2002 agreement. If the Cabinet of Ministers can't do that, the Supreme Council today has the right to propose to all political powers not to divide into oranges and blue-whites, behind us the Ukrainian people, to create a group of all political forces and to enter into the negotiating process.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u164	Dear National Deputies! We conducted this procedure according to the agreement when representatives from all the MPs and factions made a lot of suggestions and comments. I will ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to generalise, to respond to the proposals that have been made. And then we'll figure out what to do next. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am truly grateful for the suggestions that have been made here. I realize that there is also a political coloring of many issues. I would like to answer a few questions that have been asked. I think there is, indeed, a question related to the capacity of NAC Naftogazu to form a joint venture, and this issue will be resolved in conjunction with the National Property Fund of Ukraine. It's different. There are questions related to what NAK “The Naftogaz of Ukraine has some preferences that are in the State budget of Ukraine, and as a result of the discussion of future contracts, we need to anticipate this in all legal documents and work with the Supreme Council. I also want to say that the NAC Naftogaz contract – Gazprom – continues to operate as a framework contract. And we have to continue this legal line after signing an intergovernmental agreement with the government of the Russian Federation -- we're going to have to bring in the current supply contracts. The agreement with Turkmenistan is in place by the end of this year. Another long - term agreement is needed to work for future periods. This was during the Prime Minister's visit, when I was in Turkmenistan, during the last phone talks between the President of Ukraine and the President of Turkmenistan, we prepared, prepared an agreement many years in advance, and we will do everything we can to have such a treaty fully signed with the country and with Turkmengaz. These are the basics of the questions. I would like to stress once again that the question of population has been resolved and that is why we do not need to go back to this issue right now. The Ministry of Economics is currently working on policies on differentiated tariff approaches for industrial consumers. Such a position will be taken along with the relevant professional committees of the Supreme Council. And in general, what I want to say is that there's going to be a transitional phase now that we need to work more with the High Council committees when we make decisions. It is unfortunate that the professional issue that we are discussing today has so many political colors. Therefore, some well - known professionals have had time to waste on political statements. We will do everything we can to ensure that the issues related to the gradual transition of the economy to market principles are met with lower losses, both for the Ukrainian budget and for the Ukrainian economy. But at the same time, we have to understand that energy in the next few years, I don't know how many years you want, they're going to have one trend, just the adventure. Now we're out of this crisis. We have time for the economy to meet modern demands and realities. I am truly grateful for the suggestions that have been made here. We'll draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's finish the discussion, shall we? Let me have a few words. Judging from the information that we have received, it can be concluded that we have not received accurate, reliable information about the essence of the negotiations, the content of the negotiations, and the prospects that Ukraine is looking forward to. And guarantees from that. Well, I'll see how you get it in a while. The guarantee that there will be 95 gas within five years, I think no one has it today. There are still political discussions. We're being held, I think, by the Supreme Council, I guess that's how I feel about the government, on half-information. I don't understand about the griffin of secrecy for the government and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we made the worst decision we could make. If Russia offered us $50 in the first quarter and then went to the price. Even there, the figure didn't sound, but the market price, and the gas is taken in winter, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, we need 32 billion cubic metres of gas, so obviously we should take advantage of that. Otherwise, it seems that we have been led to the decision as unalterable. As far as the agreement was concerned, it was clearly signed at night. She doesn't give in to legal analysis. I think we can all agree on that. And one more moment. As always, responsibility, first of all, has been transferred to humans for what is happening. Because we didn't figure out what the average price would be for industry, and for utilities and for the population, we already said what would be the price of gas. But judging from the performances here, you can come to the conclusion that we have all the good, Ukrainian society is in total admiration and Christmas celebrations continue. I would advise all of us, dear colleagues, after Christmas holidays from warm apartments, to get out of warm cars and go to people. They'll tell us how they feel about the rings that were signed. Unfortunately, we did not have a conversation from the position of the Ukrainian people, from the point of view of society, from the point of view of national interests. We all spoke from a political point of view. Some are excited, others are definitely noting. In doing so, fellow believers, we are all looking at someone, or looking at something, we cannot have a conversation here in principle. And those calls that were made for a comprehensive study of this issue actually indicate that the whole couple went off the hook. And the fact that ministers who have been invited and ignored today are involved in the consideration of the matter is a sign of that. That the Supreme Council should make a fundamental decision, because I don't think there's any more important question than this problem that we need to discuss with the Government and take on a shared responsibility. I think we should all understand that we need to work together. And there are still a number of questions. Why, unlike previous agreements, a contract for gas transit, Yuri Ivanovich, was divorced and the price at which the Ukrainian community would receive gas was divorced. Because transit is 1.6% for 5 years, and the price is $95 for only six months? Where are we going to take a gas we don't have to balance? The next question is: where is the Turkmen gas? What is called Ukrainian? And we announced that we signed a $40 deal? Where is he? He's not in the contract. So there was no gas. Or they've shifted this gas to other structures. Then we need to be honest about this. If we got 50 dollars from Turkmenistan, 230 dollars from Russia, why do we need a commercial structure? We can mix it up, come out 95%. What would the commercial structure be an altruist and give us the price of gas to ourselves? The answer to these questions is neither from the government nor from anyone. The next question is, what is the amount of revenue from gas transit in 2004, 2005 and what will be the amount of income in 2006. Finally, let us answer today’s questions before the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people. 15 billion cubic metres of gas. What will be the export that Ukraine will receive from this gas? And finally, the last, honourable colleagues. There were calls for us to have a relationship with the government. I think everyone knows that we need to build a relationship with the government. I lifted the results of the vote from the budget, and whoever voted, and looked. But it must be done in such a way that the composition of the government corresponds to the structure of Parliament. And it turns out that 150, or maybe 120 people's deputies representing political factions, formed a government and at the same time did not vote in favour of government bills, the opposition accepts government bills and they say, let's be friends. So let us be friends with each other’s responsibilities. And it turns out that part of the factions pull chestnuts out of the fire roasted for other factions that, while in government, block the adoption of government bills. If you want to see the truth of my theses, please raise the results of the vote, including the Soviet laws. Because without representatives of the opposition, we usually have no decision in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, dear colleagues, I would like to urge us to have a serious conversation. Unfortunately, I'm forced to say, and you're going to support me in this, that we've just had a conversation with a line in Parliament. We don't know exactly at what price Ukraine will be getting gas in the second half of the year. Dear colleagues, there's a document. We know what the transit will be within five years - 1.6. And at the price of gas, we don't know. So we agreed that we would consider and determine by voting on the decisions we have been given. But there are a lot of decisions. Then we could go that way. After each draft decree or draft law, give up to three minutes of justification, then the vote. We could go another way. Let's call it a 30-minute break. To hold meetings of the Conciliation Board and determine what one decision we make. Oh, no? Let's look at it then. So we have 11 orders. We'll listen to everyone. I will give my word in the order of the coming of these decrees. Dear colleagues, we had two Supreme Council decrees, registration numbers 8634, 8634-1 on hearing the government's information on this issue. We'll assume that we've heard the information before, we don't need to consider these regulations. And I would ask that the honourable colleagues who brought them not insist, for there is no subject to be considered. Do you have a deal? Next. A draft decree, registration number 8635 and 8635-1 on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry is being introduced. We have two projects here. The authors of the first draft of the decision of Šurm, Šufrich, Hare and Pisarenko, second draft of the decree, Vladimir Hare, I'm sorry. And the author of the second decree, 8635-1 Oleg Belarus. Are you insisting on these acceptance orders? Nestor Ivanovich, who is there, Schufrich, insisting or not? It's about the temporary commission of inquiry. Let them speak now. Then it's procedure. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Registration No. 8635, on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the financial and economic activities of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, personnel policy and security conditions of Ukraine with gas for 2006. Schufferch reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u167	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nestor Sufrich, opposition block "No Yes". Unfortunately, we have witnessed developments in the conclusion of Ukrainian security treaties as the most important component of our energy security, namely gas. We are all convinced today that we have actually witnessed a crime against our own people. We propose to create a special commission of inquiry to investigate the circumstances of the signing of treaties, its consequences, and to hold those who have betrayed Ukraine’s national interests accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u168	Yes, I'll ask Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please, your decision, do you insist on it? Microphone, please, then Carmazin about the inadmissibility of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u169	Oleg Belarus. I propose to postpone this ruling to the results of the vote on the main issue of trust and resignation of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u170	Obviously, you're taking a temporary motion out of your mind right now. There is a draft decree on the non-admissibility of draft regulations, number 8635, 8635-1 by Yuri Carmazin, and he has the right to base his opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Prime Minister, government, Ukrainian people! Of course, the signing of the Agreement on the settlement of relations in the gas field has at least three dimensions: political, economic and legal. Of all three, I can say that there are such serious issues before this agreement that they are included in the giving of evidence in the prosecutor’s office. But. But according to the Constitution, article 89 and the changes that have already taken effect since January 1st, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is creating from the National Deputies of the Committee of the Supreme Council. We can treat the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine differently, but we must ask ourselves today politically whether we will help our President Victor Yushchenko to speak to the President of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, today, with the President of the Russian Federation. Now, whether we help them today or not, I'm saying that the adoption of any decision of these -- this is the blow in the back to Victor Yushchenk's negotiations -- is clearly without appraising the decision that was taken. If we're going to strike and we're going to be conscious of that, that's one question, and I'm going to suggest something else. I'm asking why this bill was considered without an explanatory note to provide information. Why should the Supreme Council be concerned, not with its committee or committee? Has this issue ever been studied by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and the Fuel Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security? Were there hearings in the committee on this issue, called for the participation of the Prime Minister, the First Vice Prime Minister, the relevant ministers and officials? What has been the outcome of this consideration, which has hindered the existence of this committee? So given the responsibility of parliamentary control, the situation that has arisen and the need for a quick solution, I propose not to create a temporary commission, but to have two committees, a fuel-energy, a legal policy, and a 12-number report to us. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the legal analysis of the position that took place after the agreement reached with the Russian company Ukrenergo AG, which belongs to Switzerland. In addition, those who criticized this agreement made agreements with United Angie International, which belonged to England. And you remember that we bought gas from the buyer of the English company. What's changed? Nothing. Only the rulers of the cabinets. And in principle, the principle of the system that was invented has not changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please note, the argument has been made, the justification has been made. Now the decree, the draft decree, registration number 8682, the authors of the national deputies Belarus and Kuzmenko. No, no, I'm sorry. We'll vote all the arguments, then we'll exchange them for reasons, then we'll go to the vote. Now the bill, registration number 86-81, on the moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity for public transport, except taxis. Simonenko, Matthew. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, in my statement to the Cabinet of Ministers, I emphasized that, as we know from all the practice of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the course of, well, at the very least, the last two calls, all those decisions that are being made, they have not been implemented by governments. That's why we, the faction of communists and, in particular, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and I have introduced a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium to increase the price of housing and utilities tariffs and the consumption of natural gas, electricity, public transport services, except taxis. We argue this first of all because the increase in the price of imported natural gas from January 1st of this year will lead to a significant increase in prices for these types of industrial products, and we know that with you. Also, food prices will increase and significantly increase. Consider the estimated 30 percent increase in prices for goods and services. The irreversible decline in the profitability of industrial production, the decline in the competitiveness of domestic production will certainly lead to fewer jobs, more unemployment, and then, of course, the decline in the income levels of most of the Ukrainian population. The announcement by the Prime Minister to increase the price of natural gas consumed and electricity tariffs will further impoverish Ukrainian citizens. And it should be noted that by 10 November last year, the debt of the population for wages, think about it, your colleagues, for housing and utilities, was 6.7 billion dollars in debt for wages of 1.1 billion dollars. Given what we have put forward, we, the faction of communists, find it unacceptable to increase tariffs on residential services consumed by natural gas, electricity and public transport services, except taxis, before, I emphasize, a corresponding increase in minimum wage and minimum pension. So, I think we have a way out here, honourable national deputies, one, to support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u174	Yes. Next is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision, registration number 8681-1 on non-admission of electricity tariffs and gas prices for the population. Basil Nadrag will inform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u175	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, today in presentations, including in the report, we have heard the thesis that everyone and everyone is ready to discuss the gas issue today. But the MPs from the Lithuanian People's bloc are offering a little something else. The discussion is good, but it is important that our debate ends for our people, for our people. And based on that logic, I would like to remind you that on 20 October of this year, the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc are: Noshchenko. Sharov and Drachevsky proposed to us a draft decree of the Supreme Council that prohibited the release of prices or the conversion of those prices to natural gas for the population and for residential and communal enterprises in 2006. Unfortunately, we live in a country where much is changing, including understanding the situation every day. Therefore, based on this logic, a number of members of the Lithuanian People's bloc are today proposing to your attention Bill 8681-1, the essence of which is: to undertake to comply strictly with the Supreme Council's decree of 20 October of the Cabinet of Ministers establishing a moratorium on the price of natural gas holidays for the population and for housing and utilities. Accordingly, it will take effect from the date of its adoption. On the basis of the foregoing, I appeal on behalf of the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania to all the political forces in this Chamber. We say too often and very much to you that our decisions depend on the lives of our people. So let us vote today to ensure that, despite any political conflict of gas and electricity for the population during 2006, the prices that existed prior to a known increase or a known desire to raise those prices for the population remain constant. Moreover, we have heard more than we need to talk about the adequacy of national gas for the population. Based on this logic, let us once again call upon all those in this room to fulfil our obligations to our people. And we will ensure that in 2006 gas and electricity do not change for the population, nor does it change for housing or for the social sphere. Thank you. I'm sure it'll be the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u176	Now the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on the threat of national security in relation to the actions of the executive authorities to ensure that Ukrainian consumers have natural gas. Registration number 8682. Author Oleg Belarus and Kuzmenko Oleg Grigorovich, you'll report it, right? Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u177	Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! Bill 8682, registered by the Supreme Council, introduced by the BUT faction and the faction “Our Ukraine” of the Ukrainian National Security Threat Order in connection with the actions of the executive authorities to secure Ukraine's natural gas, is a natural, immediate response of the Supreme Council to what we, like other national deputies, other factions, consider to be undermining Ukraine's national interests, creating new unprecedented threats to the development and threatening the sovereignty of our nation. In this regard, we consider it necessary to offer the Supreme Council immediate response. For it will be late, if the Supreme Council does not do so, such a Supreme Council is not needed by the people of Ukraine as an organ, a higher body of the direct peoples. And that's why in this bill, on behalf of the Supreme Council, we're proposing an assessment of everything that's happened under an agreement that we consider to be counterproductive, criminal, unequal, which is causing Ukraine's economy and social development a major irreparable damage, which is only in 1986, about $5 billion that is destroying Ukraine's budget and undermining Ukraine's hope for progressive development. In this regard, a number of measures have been proposed in the resolution part of our 14 - paragraph bill that made it impossible to implement this criminal agreement. Including, we propose an immediate decision by the Supreme Council, which is now in charge under the Government's Constitution, to denounce this 2006 gas agreement, which is a huge threat to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u178	Yes, thank you, too, Oleg Grigorovitch. Now draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 8684 “On information from the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers and the status of contractual legal conditions for gas supply in 2006”. The authors of the National Deputies of Winsky and Sergeienko. Joseph Wynsky, please give an argument about the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies! By order of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, we are introducing a draft decision that provides answers to a key question, how to proceed further so that the problems that we have been born with this agreement may in some way be localized, neutralized and we should not allow them to be allowed forward. So we recommend that we act within the Constitution of Ukraine, which, as of 1 January, works when the Supreme Council has an impact on the Cabinet of Ministers and we propose the following measures. The first step is, in our view, fundamental. This is a solution to the problem of permanent political dialogue or political dialogue between the Ukrainian politician and the Russian government. Because because this dialogue was gone, we have this problem. You understand why. The next position that the government should be implemented at our suggestion is that we have seen the incompetence and imperfection of human resources policy in this area. So we suggest that we address the issue of human resources policy in the energy field, as such, in a broad sense. And the second. To draw human resources conclusions on the leadership of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. We consider it a principle position to go back to the problem of restoring gas supplies under conditions that were previously in Ukraine at the level of inter-State relations. In order for both Parliament and the Ukrainian society to have real control over a monster such as NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, we propose to form a supervisory board that could track the situation in this business and respond appropriately to it and not allow the things we have today. We think it's fundamentally important that the government focus on a serious level of energy conservation in Ukraine that could lead to a real gas reduction, at least 20 percent at the earliest time, because whatever we talk to you, we understand the world trend in energy prices, and we understand that when we spend twice as much energy per unit as we do in Europe, we will always not be competitive. We think it's fundamentally important to keep prices in the utility sector at the level of 2005. There is already, a draft decision has been made, we absolutely support it and we will vote for it, but our decision also provides for it. And the last. We believe that the relationship between a gas problem is intergovernmental, not the nature of a company's relationship separately, and the government needs to do so immediately. And lastly, we believe that in view of the problems that are certain, the Attorney General’s Office will have concluded by January 15 that it is in line with the national interests of the treaty that has been signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u180	Thank you. Now the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation 8686-P is the order of voting for the draft decree on the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, by Shufric, Shurma, Hare. Please. So let's probably talk about the ruling itself and then the voting order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u181	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow countrymen! I think we all regret to say that we need to be determined to answer the question, Are we responsible to Ukraine or do we agree that everything is in the country, unfortunately, not so. Today, a very difficult decision awaits us. Considering that the resignation of the government is initiated and is one that will ensure a settlement of the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, which will translate the relationship between our countries, between our peoples into a friendly, pragmatic nature, we make a decision to resign the government of Ukraine. We believe that today the issue must be voted in secret. Pressure is felt by all nationals. And I think it would be right if we voted in secret on the issue of the resignation of the government. I'm asking for the 8686-p draft to be put to all the voting on the draft government resignation decrees. But in order for no one to blame individual politicians or political forces, that they are now using the situation and the parliamentary rostrum for their own party ambitions, I propose: the last draft of decree 8686-2 on the resignation of the government to consider first. This emphasizes that we today take responsibility for the situation in the country rather than for the direction in which we are being accused by those who have brought the country to such a shameful and dangerous state. We have to protect Ukraine's interests, we have to protect the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u182	Please, next draft regulation, 8686-1. This is a document submitted by Oleg Belarus and Kuzmenko on the resolution of mistrust in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u183	Oleg Belarus, BUT faction. On behalf of the BUT faction and the “One Ukraine” faction, introducing this bill, I stress that by protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens who will suffer the most from a gas collapse, which is resourceful from the betrayal of Ukraine's national interests. We ask the question in this brief bill of mistrust to the current Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with an article in the Constitution that entails the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to emphasize once again that only the direct losses of Ukraine in 2006 will amount to about $5 billion. Ukraine’s budgetary system cannot handle this. We cannot deliberately make such decisions to the government. Please support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u184	Yes, now the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision, registration number 8686-2 on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. The author of the draft decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, as you can see, despite the numerous optimistic statements made by the leadership of the Government of Ukraine, it has not in fact taken effective measures to stabilize the socio-economic situation, which unfortunately deteriorates in comparison to past years. I'll just give you a few digits. During the 10 months of this year's GDP growth, last year, I'm sorry, GDP growth has dropped by 4.8 times, industrial production has dropped by 4.5, fuel oil prices have risen by 32%, food goods and services by 7.1%. The growth rate in capital has increased by 10.1 times. Over-politicization, I would say, of our government, while the unprofessional nature of external economic activity has put Ukraine in a dangerous position. And that's why today's discussion is particularly about the Prime Minister of Ukraine's information. Therefore, given this and other negative developments related to the socio-political and economic situation in the country, we propose to adopt decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, which, in particular, came into force on 1 January this year, to decide on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with part 12 of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, all the draft decrees that have been made. Now, one minute, we'll be off procedure. Now, one minute, I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, on the ground, some of them I cannot, unfortunately, put to the vote. When we approach specific draft regulations, I'll talk about it because they conflict with the Constitution. Now with the procedure, please, since the questions are important, 10 minutes, please log in. I'm out of procedure. In a minute, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Bronnikov, Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u187	Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”. Vladimir Mihajlovich, it was very difficult to listen to them and to remember their distinction. You said you were ready to comment. We'd ask for it to really be. For each order, not only to comply with the law, but also possible consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u188	George Boiko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u189	George Boiko, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We've already discussed enough projects and it's time to get to the bottom of this discussion. Many such specific thoughts have been expressed that are already included in the projects. But I see that the most prepared is Simonenko, Matthew. So I propose to vote first and then to go to the vote at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u190	Boris Bespalij, please, microphone, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u191	Boris Bespalij, Yuschenka block “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! First question about saving prices for the population. I think here we are all unanimous and the Prime Minister here has made it clear that these prices are not going to be raised, but if the Supreme Council wants to solidarity with the government and support this proposal, please don't deny it, we will also support it, although it is the authority of the government, not the Supreme Council. Now the second one. With regard to all other resignations, and so forth. This could be viewed as a New Year’s joke or a prime one, but these things are taken seriously for absolutely no reason. It is known that for 14 years, the forces that are now more than ever shouting about it have created Ukraine's one-sided dependence on Russia, and at the time when the government has done its utmost to ask the question of resigning from the supply of gas princesses and gas barons who have benefited from it, it is absolutely not a serious matter, I think all these decisions are subject to unconditional rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u192	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u193	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I see it as the most acceptable, balanced and constitutionally based changes to the Constitution that have been in force since January 1. There's a project that was introduced by the National Deputies Simonenko and Matthew. Therefore, it is appropriate to put him first in the vote and, depending on the results, then consider the following if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u194	Korz, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u195	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u196	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u197	Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear friends, this is where the deputy of “Our Ukraine” came to think about the fact that he was talking about broken barter ties. No one would mind if the barter bonds were broken. However, I would like to remind you that this is the agreement that broke the Transitgas connection, which ensured the stability of Russian gas supply by 1 January 2009. Secondly, I would like to comment on the view of the head of the Donbas Industrial Union, Donbas, Sergey Taratuti, who said literally, quote: “By the magnitude of the economic damage, the signed agreement is the most terrible document signed during the years of independence.” That's what Industrial Donbas says.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u198	Yes, Vitaly Shibko is referring to Alexander Frost, a faction of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u199	I have this proposal, the honourable MPs, and in that document that we proposed from the faction and the one that the communists offered, there were two more documents that were about saving tariffs, that is, gas prices in the communal sphere. I think that this can be voted in the form of, or the law, or the rulings, it's less important, even though we can go on the basis of the law. And in relation to all the other regulations, I'd love to, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's still gather the Conciliation Council, discuss various projects and find a solution that can be optimal. Because today, those who propose the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers are not suggesting how to create the Cabinet of Ministers on which the legal base is based. On what was or will be introduced after March of the month, I think it's just not serious and we shouldn't create, jump into a trap that we build ourselves. Let's solve the issue essentially, not politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u200	Alexander Colonyari, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u201	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am very grateful to you on behalf of my constituents for bringing this matter to the attention of the Supreme Council. And that's a lot of decisions that have been made about resigning the government, about settling the gas price, about electricity, which shows that the Supreme Council is dealing with the issues of its electorate. And I would like to propose that Matthew and Simone be the first to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u202	Nestor Schufric, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u203	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I support the proposal that I have put forward for the first draft of Decree 8686-2, and once again we emphasize that we are now in pain for Ukraine, we are in pain for the state of things, and we are in pain for the situation to not get worse, and the political situation in this case to nothing. When people pay for the mistakes of our masters, it is unacceptable and we have to fight against it. And to fear that there will be no power is also false, because 60 days will work, and then we have the National Bank, the Treasury works, the local administrations will pay pensions and wages, everything will be fine, and we have to make a very responsible and not simple decision today. People don't have to pay for the mistakes of power. They're not supposed to pay on their own income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u204	Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u205	Vladimir Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u206	Valerius Assadchev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u207	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party I still want out of procedure. First of all, I would like to remind you that the resignation of the Government takes place under a certain procedure defined by the Rules. So if we're putting this in the agenda, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then let's follow this procedure. There is a time for the government to prepare the report, and so on. Because we're making demands, and we think we can act outside the law, outside the Rules, outside the Constitution. And the second is about the commission of inquiry. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can't be so sure that those who initiate the commission of inquiry, they lead them and they prepare their own reports and announce them. So they're both prosecutors and judges. Let's do this, who's initiating, can't be on this committee, let's let the vice versa lead this commission. To be an objective consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u208	Igor Francchuk, please. The Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u209	The faction of the Rebirth Party. Dear colleagues, our faction, our group today thinks that all issues have been mixed up today: the question of the moratorium on gas prices is a matter that deserves attention and we must clearly vote it; today on the resignation of the government, it has been wrong to ask today at all. I request that you pass the word to Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u211	Yuri Carmazin. I thank Igor Francis. Honorable national MPs, surely, what question today is the order of the day? Look, what did the government come with? The government came to inform about the country’s energy supply and the causes of the conflict and the consequences of the settlement of relations. I don't like this deal either, but we have to look at it legally. Let's see. What the Rules say, both the Rules of Procedure, and the Heads of the factions should know the Regulations that should be put in the morning in order of the morning, at an earlier meeting. If we have to vote now, it's only tomorrow that we have the right to consider it, you know that. A breach of procedure leads to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u212	Yes, please, Tkalenko, Alexander Tkalenko, the National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u213	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, today we have indeed had a discussion, which is far from professional, it is completely politicized. Unfortunately, we have also not heard from the government about the situation that relates to or is included in the agreement, we have not heard the situation with the gas counters that are on the Russian-Ukrainian border. And besides, I was personally surprised by the misinformation that was said here about the rise in tariffs on utilities. This is all misinformation and our people must be calm in this regard. Thank you. And as for these populist decrees, I think they're totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u214	Yes, National Deputy Komar, please. Aah! Eugene Gorenik, I'm sorry, Eugene Gorenik, “Reforms and Order”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u215	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear colleagues! Today’s issue is far from gas. The government settled the gas issue. And even though he agreed on the price of $40, it would still be today, the question in this room about his resignation, because some political forces want to decide today what the Ukrainian people have to decide on March 26. Let's not substitute ideas. As for gas prices in utility. The government has agreed and the vote is out of order. As far as the commission of inquiry is concerned. If these committees are needed, let's hold on to the procedure. As for the resignation of the government, this issue is purely political and totally groundless. I understand those who have lost their gold's murky gas lineage. But I want to remind you of the words of the Russian classic: "The people of the Holobi people are the dogs sometimes. How hard is it?”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Motive and procedure finished. Now, in the order of coming, I will put to the vote those decrees, those draft laws that meet the rules of the Constitution and the Rules. The first is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Inadmissibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of Financial and Economic Activities of the Naftogaz National Shareholder Company, the company's personnel policy and the conditions for providing Ukraine with gas in 2006. Number 8635 from 21.12.2005 and numbers 8635-1 from 29.12.2005. The author of the project was Yuri Karmazin. It's about inadmissibility. The factions, please. Let's do the factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 41, National Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 0, National Block - 0, SDPU(O) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "Reforms and Order" - 14, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 2, "Only Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 3. So the decision is not made. That's why I'm voting on the draft decree, registration number 8635. The authors of Šurm, Schufrić, Vladimir Zejec, Pisarenko “On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the financial and economic activities of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine”, the human resources policy of the company and the conditions for providing Ukraine with gas for 2006”. To accept a project as a determination, please specify. I'd like to make up my mind. To 218. The decision is not taken. Ah, dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it's 150. Decision taken. Then by factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 58, Communists – 55, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 9, Block Timoshenko – 36, SPI – 1, National Block – 21, SDPU (O) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 0, “Ukrainian” – 14, non-fractional – 4. Because. The point is, dear colleagues, we are on the Conciliation Council when we discussed it. Well, listen, we've been looking into the issues, the outcome of the question is we're making a decision. What are you talking about, dear colleagues? What should be included? Yes, calm down, please. And that's what we talked about. Now the next draft of Decree 8635 - 1 makes no sense, since the previous decree has been adopted. Now let's move on, dear fellows. The vote is based on the law, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, public transport services other than taxis. Registration number 8681 as a basis. Please vote. For -386. We accepted it as a foundation. If there are no warnings, I can put them in general. No warning? There's a warning in Assadchev, I can't put it. Dear colleagues! I'll follow the Rules. We took the warning. Please, it's Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'd like to know from you or the authors, because I don't have any of this bill. Is there a reckoning for him? Because in order to establish a moratorium, it has to be compensated at the expense of budgets. What are they: state, local? Please make the calculations so that we know we're voting, what numbers are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. There's only one thing I can say that the budget that we've adopted has calculations based on price failure. You know that very well. But because you have a warning. No warning? There are warnings, all of them, respectable colleagues. There's a warning. By Thursday, we'll be in on Thursday. A draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 8681-1 on non-admission of electricity tariffs and gas prices for the population, is now under way. I'm voting on the adoption of the project as a decision. Please vote. What? We have adopted the law as a basis, and when we adopt it in general, the President makes a commitment. For -365. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8682, is now pending. I am reading the name of the draft Decision “On threats to Ukraine’s national security in connection with the actions of the executive authorities to ensure Ukraine’s consumers with natural gas”. To my conviction, we cannot vote on the draft ruling, because it is not the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have a document, please take it. The first point is about declaring a deal invalid, we don't have the right, it's the owners. Why should we vote? The second is to assign the Attorney General a legal assessment of the contract within three days. It's not the prosecution's business. Next, we can assign to the Chamber of Accounts, we can assign, we can check on Naftogaz. The fourth item is to create a temporary commission of inquiry. It's already been created, there's no need to vote. The fifth item is to release the minister, and the sixth is to oblige the head of Naftogazu to be released within three days. Dear colleagues, we can have separate paragraphs, but in general, this document cannot be voted on, it is contrary to all legal norms. So I propose that this document be finalized by the authors, removed from the positions that the Supreme Council cannot vote on, and then we will look at it. No warning? Let's move on. With motive? Please, the author of Oleg Belarus's draft decision. Microphone, turn it on. We can vote if you insist, separate positions, but it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u219	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think there's a lot of reason in what you said, and we could vote it out as a basis and then delete all the points that you're right about. And I think we should put him to the vote. I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, then take this document. I'll tell you what points I believe should be removed. We can vote on the basis when they insist, but I propose on the basis of removing these points. Look, please, I'm begging you! Look, we need to remove the first, second, fourth, eighth, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th. I don't have a right, believe me! No, no, those points. Dear colleagues, once again, please pay attention! You can make a draft decision based on the deletion of items that are not the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the first, the second, the fourth, the eighth, the tenth, the eleventh, the twelfth, the thirteenth and the fourteenth. After removing these points, I put the vote on the ground. Please vote. For 246. We accepted it as a foundation. All of it. Dear colleagues, there are warnings. Please, there will be no warnings, let us put them in general. Well, there's a warning. What am I going to do? Calm down, please. They're working. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 54, National Party - 38, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPI - 0, National Block - 20, SDPU - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 1, National Movement of Ukraine, "Reforms and Order" - 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, "One Ukraine" - 14, "Afterfraction" - 7. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen. What? Well, there's a warning! They're coming with a warning! Please! There's a warning. It is now in favour of a vote on the basis of the draft Decree-Law 8684, the authors of the National Deputies of Winsky and Sergiyenko, the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers and the status of the contractual legal conditions of gas supply in 2006 for adoption as a basis. I'd like to make a statement. Based on the base. For – 42 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I now ask you, Your Honor, not to be blamed or said anything. Now there are three draft decrees dealing with the resignation of the Government: 8686, 8686-1 on mistrust and 8686-2 on resignation. As far as I'm concerned. One minute in connection with the draft decision made by the People's Deputies Billorus and Kuzmenko, I cannot, unfortunately or to the great joy you wish, put to the vote because it is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers resolutions to be previously supported by a third of the people's deputies. Therefore, two draft decisions may now be made in accordance with the new provisions of the Retirement Constitution. There was and is a draft decree, registration number 8686-P of this kind of content, on the procedure for voting draft decrees for the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. to be held in secret. That's what we used to do. So I'm voting on this proposal, which is contained in draft regulation 8686-P. Change the vote. Sign the procedure. Three minutes. Cancel the vote, three minutes. Because we talked about 10 minutes out of procedure, dear colleagues. Well, you insist again, please. Mikhailo Dobkin, please “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u221	Mikhail Dobkin, "Regionov Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. For example, as a national MP, I absolutely do not believe that I should vote in secret for the resignation of the Government. I declare my position openly, and I believe that all the people's deputies who defend the interests of our people, the interests of the State, today show by their vote whose positions they stand for. A handful of nationalists who do everything to break up relations, including with Russia, and to stand up for their political interests, or those who vote in favour of the resignation of the Government will show their clear principled position that they do not agree with the right economic policy of the Government. I therefore urge that the vote take place in an open manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u222	Thank you. I would just like to point out that there are exclusively Ukrainian national deputies here in the session room. I would ask everyone to be treated accordingly. Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u223	Victor Yushchenka's block “Our Ukraine”. First of all, the procedure. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a temporary commission of inquiry cannot be considered created because we did not vote or include it in the agenda, which requires 226 votes. So please. The other one. Clearly, this decree on secret ballots cannot be upheld. Although the logic and consistency of the writers of this decree are also understandable, they want to do a dark and bad thing in the dark. And the dark and the bad thing is to resign a government that, in fact, before the whole world clearly, clearly and consistently, has been working hard to protect Ukraine's national interests. I think that in the same position, the people's deputies of Ukraine should concentrate and not support, of course, the shameful proposals for resignation of the government, which in difficult circumstances protects the national interest of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u224	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor. It is only right that the presiding officer follows the Rules in detail and the entire decision-making procedure, which is as important as the resignation of the government. I just don't understand for sure why we should vote in secret for what we do honestly, openly and in principle. So there's an offer, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to put to the vote, I go back to what I've already said, 8686-2 about the resignation of the government without vote or any secret procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u226	Vladimir Korge, please. I'll go after they sign up, distinguished national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u227	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u228	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Vitaly. I would like to stress that, really, here, whether in secret or in any way, I would like to say, because I understand that before, before the elections, everyone wants to demonstrate the protection of national interests, but then, when national interests give way, there's nothing to protect. I say again, I have not heard in the speech, as all the national deputies here are present, the prime minister's justification for the signed, signed agreement has not been substantiated. There was no answer to the question of what was Russia's compromise if it demanded $230 per thousand cubic metres of gas and got it. So what was the compromise? That she didn't take our entire gas transport system for that money? So that's not a fact. Whether or not we've taken it or not, we don't know if there's a secret protocol or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u230	Yes. Please, Vladimir Hare. Maybe he'll take off this motion for a ruling? What are you doing? This is the author of the draft decision. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u231	Thank you. Vladimir Hare, opposition block “No Yes”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, author of the Shurmi, Hare and Nestor Schufrich bill, has no need to hide behind secret ballots. Our position is well - known, but we were thinking about those people who today represent power, those political powers whose representatives are working in the Ukrainian government today. And we've come out of the fact that many of them are people who are thinking clearly, rationally, pragmatically, that they also adequately appreciate the situation that has taken place in the betrayal of Ukraine's national interests and, just thinking about them, we wanted this procedure to take place in such a way that they had the chance to vote for the resignation of the government today, to carry out their conscience before their conscience, but not to put them under the press that exists today from the executive power, from the President of Ukraine. And so that we don't get blamed, we're taking this decision down and we're going to vote in open mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m0.u232	Problem solved, draft decision withdrawn. We have two draft rulings left. Here was a proposal to consider draft regulation 8686-2 first. I understand the authors agreed to that, right? That's why I'm reading a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the resignation of the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's number one. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, send the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, to resign. The other one. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers, sent by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign, in accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to exercise its mandate before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins. Third. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Registration number of Decree 8686-2. I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. Please vote. Please vote. For 250. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 59, Communists - 55. “Our Ukraine” – 1, People's Party – 40, Block Timoshenko – 36, SPU – 0, National Block – 20, SPDU(o) – 18, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Rebirth – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Reforms and Order – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, “One Ukraine” – 14, non-fractional – 7. Dear National Deputies! Obviously, we need to take a break. Let's take a break in 16.30 minutes. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
