ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:41]] In the session hall, 366 cards of national deputies were registered. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today we celebrate the birthdays of our colleagues Sergey Viktorovich Kye and Viktor Semenovich Topolov. Let's welcome them. Yes, I'm asking you to mobilize. You have a list of agenda issues. We've been charted, we're said to be doing a lot of work today, so let's work fast. On the previous report of the Commission of Inquiry on the investigation of violations of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies. The chairman of the commission wrote that the issue involved needed time to work on it. Let's hear it. But by using this, I appeal to the heads and members of all the temporary investigative commissions, please, we are very enthusiastic when we create them. But then we forget about the commission very quickly. In accordance with the rules of the Rules, we will look and eliminate, announce the dissolution of all those commissions that have failed to report. The issue of the approval of the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on November 29, this year, the Committee considered the draft calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fifth meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project was prepared in accordance with the requirements of article 83, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and article 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to send a specified draft of the Calendar Plan to the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and submission of proposals to it. In the proposals of the Communist Party of Ukraine for March and May festivals, a week was proposed from 5 to 9 March 2007 instead of working in plenary sessions to anticipate work on committees and factions, and a week from 12 to 16 March, scheduled as a week of work on committees and factions, to be taken to plenary meetings. It is also proposed that the week of May 7 - 11 be taken to work in committees and factions, and the week of May 14 - 18, previously scheduled to work in committees and factions, be taken to hold plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee at its meeting on December 13 supported the proposals and again sent a revised draft calendar plan to the MPs for approval. Having received the approval of the four deputies’ factions, besides the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, the committee at its meeting on December 20, this year decided to support the draft calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call proposed to you today. In accordance with the provisions of part one of the first article of the 83rd Constitution of Ukraine, the proposed draft calendar plan proposes to start a plenary session of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call on February 6, 2007. Its completion is scheduled for July 13, 2007. During this time, there are 12 weeks of plenary work, six weeks of committee and faction work, and five weeks of electoral work, as well as six days of government in the Supreme Council. The Fifth, Sixth and Ninth July 2007 Plenary Meetings of the Sixteenth Annual Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe are scheduled for implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision of 16 November 2006. The Committee requests that the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2795, be supported in accordance with the first part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. All right, sit down, then. I propose to vote on the Supreme Council regulation on the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, registration number 2795. As the committee head said, the proposals of all factions are taken into account. Please vote. [[10:08:58]] For 303 It's been decided. A draft Order amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on committee and electoral work]] Registration number 2720. Reported to Oleg Lazko, the head of the committee reports. Please, Nicholas Komar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u4	Easy gave me the word. Dear colleagues, in the draft decision submitted for consideration, the proposal is to amend the calendar plan for the second meeting of the Supreme Council on the 5th call, envisioning the work of the Supreme Council during the last week of December 25th to 29th in committee and faction work, and the holding during the first week of January 2007, from 2nd to 5th in the work of the Ukrainian national deputies to the electorate. This will allow for a thorough analysis, quality work on the committees scheduled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of draft legislative acts, and will facilitate the participation of the country's national deputies in a mass effort to celebrate the New Year's celebrations and to work with the electorate. The balance of time determined by the calendar master for committee work, factions, and for the work of the Ukrainian national deputies with the voters, the proposed changes are not affected. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u5	Are there any questions? You don't? Have a seat. Please, head of the Ephraimite Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u6	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, committee at its meeting on December 13, this year, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call made by the Ukrainian national deputies Komar Mikola Stepanović and Lášk Oleg Valeriovich, registration number 2720. The draft decree proposes to amend the current calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council, providing for electoral work, committee work and factions planned from December 25 to 29 this year, and for a week from January 2 to 5, 2007, instead of working on committees and factions for national deputies with voters. As a result of the committee’s consideration, it was decided to support the draft decision and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda of the day session and support it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u7	Thank you. No questions? Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think the offer is normal, really, it corresponds to the realities that have come together now. Let us support the draft decision, that is, the decision to amend the calendar plan for the fifth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the weeks of committee and electorate work. Please vote. [[10:12:23]] For 298 It's been decided. A draft Decree on "Government of Ukraine Day" is under consideration in February 2007, registration number 2762. [[On the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, legal and moral protection of war veterans]] Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As a draft decision of the Supreme Council for the Government Day in February 2007, I made a proposal to hold the Government Day with the following agenda: “On the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, legal and moral protection of war veterans”. As to the very contents of the topic proposed on Government Day. I understand that when we talk about the category of war participants in general, the largest category among them, among the participants in the war, is the category of participants in the Great National War. It should be borne in mind that the youngest of them to be directly involved in these events, I mean, those involved in the fighting, those with disabilities of war, now 80 years or more. Those who have been involved in the war for some 80 years. We have with you before this category of our citizens, just like in front of others, but before that, especially, a lot of debt. And I think that the government's consideration of this issue is part of our age-old debt to this category of our citizens. With regard to the date of the event, we were faced with the choice to initiate this government day, or in April months, where we have one question planned, and it is related to the anniversary of the disaster at Chernobyl’s AES, and on March of the month, there are two questions. Therefore, the committee agreed with the proposal to hold this Government Day on February 13, 2007. That is to say, my proposal is to hold a Government Day on February 13, 2007 "On the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, legal, moral protection of war veterans". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the Ukrainian Government Day in February 2007 with the agenda “On the state of implementation of Ukraine’s legislation on the social, legal and moral protection of war veterans”, registration number 2762. Please vote. [[10:15:52]] For 383 I'll take the order. Thank you. The issue of amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization is under consideration. As reported by Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, please. The committee heads are to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, you are asked a question, a draft decree amending the Supreme Council's Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretariat of the Boats of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization. It is proposed to vote, and my colleague Onichuk and I have tabled this bill in view of the fact that our colleagues, under the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, have the right to work on the committee in which he wishes. So the national deputy of Matthew Valerius Valerius wants to work in, be a member of the Justice Committee and ask to be relieved of the duties of a member of the Legal Policy Committee. In addition, when voting in favour of Deputy Sklar and the wishes of Deputy Ragnyev to work at the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, and one, and the other stated that they wanted to work there, there was a bill of lading in the vote. So in order to remedy the situation, we ask you to support us by one package to vote on all three candidates. She is eager to include members of the State Building Committee, Sklar, in the same way to select the same committee on matters of justice, excuse me for choosing and choosing Matthew Valerijovna for the Committee on Justice, freeing her from the duties of a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. This is how it is proposed to vote on the decision. I will say in advance that yesterday the committee considered this issue and, considering that the quota for both our Ukraine and the Sklar quota for our candidates is being used, however, we ask your colleague Onichuk to support this draft Supreme Council Regulation, because MPs have the right to work legally on the committees they want to work on. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u11	Thank you. There's a question. Sign up. I have a question for you, Vasil Alexiyovich. Why is there no committee decision on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u12	Well, the committee was looking into it yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u13	He was looking, and where is the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u14	Maybe he just hasn't been delivered to the Supreme Council yet. But we made a decision yesterday on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u15	Yes, please, who are we asking?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u16	I think the committee head will explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u17	Yes, there were two enquiries. Please, Luszko Oleg and Knyazevich next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in fact, the committee's decision is, it's negative, Vasil Alexiyovich just didn't say it. Vasil Alexiyovich, you're talking about what happened and we're proposing to fix it. But you propose to correct it by violating the Rules. All three candidates you propose to select to a committee are already using quotas for these factions. I mean, in the case of your decision, the balance that was reached between the factions is being violated. Why are you doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u19	Dear colleague, I didn't hide anything, I already said two minutes ago that yes, quotas are used, but there is a legitimate right of a deputy under the People's MP's Status Act to work on that committee they want to work on. That's why we've brought this issue to the decision of the Supreme Council session, as decided by the session. They support, they support. They don't support, so they'll work where they work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u20	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u21	Dear reporter, I personally support the proposed draft ruling. Indeed, it is his constitutional right to determine where he works. But I have a question of that kind of meaning. As Secretary of the Legal Policy Committee, I am deeply sorry that all members of the committee want to leave our ranks because we have a catastrophic decline in the number of people. Because Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, worked on our committee, and so on, who left our ranks, but no one came to work for the committee. Please take this into account and perhaps send your nominations in order to maximize the number of members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u22	Okay. I answer that question. There is already a submission, but it has not yet passed the meeting of our committee, from a member of the Supreme Council who wishes to serve on your committee. So that's your proposal we've already taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u23	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Should we vote separately or should we all vote after we have discussed the decisions? Come on, we still have a whole series of regulations. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich and we will vote them all in order of submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u24	Decree 2737, it is, Adam Ivanovich. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovitch, of December 14, this year, the committee examined the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The drafters propose a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of October 19, 2006, number 264-5, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Razgonyev as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, to recognize that it has become invalid. In addition, it is proposed. First. To elect the National Deputy of Ukraine Razgonyev Mikhail Vasilovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ Deputies, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction in a committee of up to 20 persons is 7.1. And the Supreme Council Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government is working from a faction of eight national deputies. So the quota is used. The other one. To elect Ukrainian national deputy Sklar Vladimir Borisovich, member of the Ukrainian Parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine”, member of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice. The calculated quota for the bloc's parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” in committees of up to 20 persons is 3.1. At the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, three national deputies work from this faction, i.e. the quota used. Third. To elect a Ukrainian national deputy, Matthew Valeriyovna, a member of the Party of the Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. The calculated quota for a committee of up to 20 members of the Party of the Deputies is 7.1, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice is working from this faction of 8 people’s deputies, that is, the quota used. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee decided to propose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of article 89, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, that the draft decree should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative without consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u25	Yes, will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you have heard the committee's opinion. But I have to say that, indeed, there have been some consultations on this issue and that the representatives of the two factions of the Party of the Regions and the faction “Our Ukraine” have agreed to go this way. We have a committee decision, but the committee's decision is yet to be determined by the Supreme Council. So I put to the vote the 2737 Bill on choosing Ragniew as a member of the State Building Committee, the Sklar - Committee on Justice, and Matthew as well as a member of the Justice Committee, freeing them from the duties of a member of the Legal Policy Committee. Please vote. [[10:25:58]] For 284 Decisions adopted in contravention of common sense. Yes, please, the following decisions. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u26	Order 2793. At its meeting on 20 December, the Committee reviewed a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Kazachenka Alexiyyovich, a member of the deputy faction of “Our Ukraine” about his election as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. The calculated quota for the Democratic People's Republic of Ukraine is 4.7 in the Committees and 4 national deputies are employed in the Committee on Finance and Banking, i.e. the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Kozachenka and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u27	Alexander Sergiyovich, you seem to have considered a similar application once before, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u28	Then we threw it away in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u29	Right. No questions? I am voting on Supreme Council Order 2793 on the election of Kozachenko Alexiyyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:27:58]] For 367 Copy that. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u30	Project number 2794. On December 20, the committee reviewed a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich, a member of the Socialist Party’s MP for election as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. The estimated quota of up to 30 members of the Committees of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is 1.7, and the Committee on Finance and Banking has one Ukrainian national deputy working from this faction. So the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Melniczuk and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that colleague Melniczuk has replaced a colleague of Tsushka, who was also on this committee, so let's support it. I'm voting on the order number 2794. Please vote. [[10:29:17]] For 385 Decision taken. Michael Melniczuk was sent to the Committee on Finance and Banking. Let all of us work hard. Yes, a draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of Special Economic Zones and Priority Development Areas in Ukraine, registration number 2300, is under consideration. Zaplatinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u32	The Honourable Head of State, the distinguished national deputies, has recently produced conflicting information in the media about the activities of special economic zones and areas of priority development and their impact on the country’s economy. With a view to verifying the activities of special economic zones and areas of priority for objectively informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about their activities and their impact on economic processes in Ukraine, it is proposed that a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine be established to verify the activities of special economic zones and areas of priority development. Draft Decree No. 2300 submitted before your consideration. It is proposed that the head of the interim commission of inquiry be elected as the deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, the expert in this matter, Plotnik's Alexia Vitaliyovich, and the deputy head of the Royal Natalia Juryovna, who is also a member of the committee and is an expert. The factions made proposals about the composition of the temporary commission. The faction of the Party of the Regions is directed by Voropeyeva Yuri Mikolaiovich, Kalinichenko Igora Viktorovich, Melnik Stanislav Anatoliyovich, Prasolova Igor Mikolaiovich, Radziewski Olexy Vasilovich, Razgonyev Mikhailovich. The “Julia Timoshenko” faction is directed by Danilova Alexija Vijacheslavovich, Terjehohine Sergio Anatoliyovich, and Schlemko Dmitr Vasilovich. From the faction of the Block "Our Ukraine" are our fellow national deputies Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich and Sokirko Mikola Vasilovich. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Polakov Vasil Leonidovich and from the Communist Party of Ukraine Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovic. A preliminary report from the Temporary Investigation Commission is proposed to be heard at the plenary session by 30 April 2007 and to determine the work of special areas and areas of priority development. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Yes! Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u34	At the beginning of today’s session, it seems that Adam Ivanovich spoke of the fact that we are creating too many temporary commissions of inquiry. You know, I understand when there's a phenomenon, it happens, you have to understand what happened in such a social sense, and we're creating temporary commissions. When it comes to free economic zones, something else, it is meant that all of this is regulated by law and there are appropriate authorities to control, check, and conclude. Dear reporter, don't you think that some of our colleagues want to take care of it all the time, get in some direction and have something to do with it? Is this not the artificial creation of this commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u35	Thank you so much for asking. I want to answer the next question. In the Economic Policy Committee, it is believed that the world today has some two thousand free economic zones, priority areas, including countries that are part of the World Trade Organization, make sense. But to date, this approach, which was in the state, does not fully reflect the economics of this approach. The work of free economic zones and areas of priority is reflected in the state of the budget. We're dealing with this in preparation for the socio-economic development programme, the state budget. So I think the committee will continue this work daily. But the commission sent out on this issue should, in my opinion, give its conclusions, and it should be determined and proposed to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Chairman of the Efraem Rules Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is the case when the draft decree presented is prepared in full compliance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. We'll vote. But I, my dear colleagues, am supportive of questions. Nastyek, please. I've got something on my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u39	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the faction “Our Ukraine” has appointed its representatives as a temporary commission, but we ask that the People's Deputy Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich be replaced by Gurijev Vasil Mikolaiovich. It's a faction's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u40	That's good. We support the faction's decision, but I ask, doesn't he join any more committees? No, it's not. Okay. Dear colleagues, I generally support the opinion expressed in the question of colleague Chubarov that, in fact, we sometimes create commissions, in principle the committee should do so. Why do we create commissions? It's a direct, direct mission to your committee. Why else create a commission? But there is an initiative, we will vote, the only thing I would like to take into account is the amendment made by the faction “Our Ukraine” that they have replaced Gumenuk with Guriev – this is one moment and I am proposing: the term of action of this commission is not 9 months, but 6 months. And with such amendments, I'm voting on the adoption of the entire Supreme Council Order on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on the verification of the activities of special economic zones in priority development areas. Registration number 2300. [[10:37:45]] For 350, an extra 200 votes. The commission was created. Let us go to the section “Other Readings”. Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u41	The microphone's not working. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national MP. We now have a draft bill on our general agenda for the week before the second reading of the Law “Technopolis ‘Kievska Politechnika’. He's gone now, but it's the Law with a very large beard, he's still going to the Supreme Council of the past vocation, and it's discussed in the first reading. We've been working on this law in detail. A working group, scientists, and experts worked. And I would very much ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to include this bill, which has just, well, technically disappeared from the order of the day, and my colleague would like to support it, because, God forbid, we have in each region our own Kiev polytechnics. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u42	If it's in every region, it won't be Kyiv. Catherine Semenovna, is the committee ready? So there's a comparative table and there's a solution. It was given away. Okay. Then come on, I'm asking you to consider today's section of second reading the draft law number 0927 – the draft bill on Kiev Politechnics. Please be supportive. [[10:39:49]] For 315 Journalists don't vote in vain. There is also a faculty that prepares something for the media. Let's move on to a rather interesting law that we're looking at several times in each session, that's probably the third or the convocation. The 10th veto has already been on a similar bill – this is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 2325. In the second reading. Please, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of the Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies and invited! Ukraine's draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which we are looking at today in the second reading, is fully relevant to the number of most important not only for the government system but also for society as a whole. The adoption of this long-awaited legislation has been called upon to ensure legislative regulation of the activities of the higher executive body, to give standards for the organisation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the legal force of the law. I would like to remind you that the same bill has been considered in this room more than once, as Adam Ivanovich said, during the previous two calls. But today's stage of work is the first since the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, when our country has taken a firm stand on the European path of building a parliamentary-presidential form of a democratic republic. So the whole ideology of the meaningful fulfillment of this bill comes from the need to take further steps on this path. As you recall, in October, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced the law of the Cabinet of Ministers and an alternative law from the President of Ukraine. On November 16, 2006, as a result of the first reading, Parliament adopted a government bill and commissioned our committee to prepare it for its second reading. I would like to point out that the right-holders of the legislative initiative took an active part in the further drafting of the bill, received 586 proposals and amendments from 27 Ukrainian national deputies from all parliamentary factions, as well as the President of Ukraine. You can see them in the second column of the compare table. During the consideration of the bill at a committee meeting held on 13 December 2006, 111 proposals and amendments were taken into account or partially taken into account, and more than 10 drafting clarifications were introduced by the committee. Let me give you some specific examples. Yes, serious remarks prompted the formulation of article 24, which referred to the definition of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in relations with the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Some of them were contrary to the rules of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and predicted that the Government could intervene in the personnel and organizational arrangements for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic and its subordinate bodies. The committee supported proposals for the deletion of parts of articles 24 to 8, thus bringing its content into line with the ARC Constitution, which, by the way, was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the adoption of the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u44	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u45	Part six of article 42 suggested that the typical state of local self - government bodies be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and similar formations were included in paragraph 3 of the final regulations. In the Committee's view, this approach is contrary to the principle of local self-government, which violates not only the norms of effective legislation in the field of local self-government, but also the key positions of the European Charter. Therefore, proposals were supported to exclude from the final drafting of the bill rules that allowed the government to interfere with the authority of local governments. Or an example that directly applies to the national deputies of Ukraine. The text adopted as a basis, part 2 of article 30, contained the provision that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should only ensure that draft laws amending the State Budget Act were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This formulation in the event of its adoption would lead to a substantial narrowing of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies to a legislative initiative, as article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the sole developer of the Ukrainian State Budget Bill, the restrictions on the subject's right to change the legislative initiative to the already adopted State Budget Act of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine does not contain. As a result, the final text of the committee suggested that part 2 of article 30 be deleted, with the support of an appropriate proposal. A number of other proposals were also taken into account, both in substance and editorially. As a result of the review, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to be adopted in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Please, Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric presents the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine proposes a very substantial amendment to this first amendment, which is proposed for consideration. It's conceptual.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u48	Roman Mikhailovich, close to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u49	It is conceptual in nature. The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposes to regulate the activities of the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the central body of executive power. Instead, the President believes that it would be illogical to adopt the Laws “On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” without regulating the activities, roles, status of other central executives and, by the way, ministers themselves. In fact, such amendments are being made. I draw your attention to the fact that in this bill, for example, the unregulated, unregulated status of government committees, the unregulated status of ministers as such. Therefore, it seems to the President that in order to be able to fully regulate the activities of the executive branch in general, it would be necessary to extend the subject matter of regulation of the bill. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u50	Yeah, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u51	The committee’s decision to reject the amendment and, on the basis of that, to reject it was put to a committee meeting. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u52	Yes. I'm putting amendment number one, introduced by the President of Ukraine for the purpose of extending not only the Cabinet of Ministers, but the Cabinet of Ministers and other central executives. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:47:45.]] For-63 Not supported. Yes, the second one is counted. Third is Pisarenko, overruled. You don't mind, do you, colleague? No, it's not. Klukovsky is 4. Don't insist. Pisarenko — 5. Don't insist. Sixth is Bodnar Olga. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u53	I propose to support my amendment because it will help the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the responsibilities entrusted to it. I propose, unlike the editorial that is proposed to vote, that the Cabinet should exercise executive power directly and by directing and coordinating the relevant ministries, rather than giving them some authority that we will not be able to control properly. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u54	The committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u55	The committee's decision is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u56	I'm going to make an amendment to the sixth edition by my colleague Bodnar to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:07]] For-123 I didn't. Seven Matthews, overruled. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u57	"The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, you can see that today a war of encroachment has begun on the constitutional rights of other authorities and relevant officials. I believe that such aggressive government policies should be restrained, and I think that by coming out of this situation and looking forward to no one being entitled to other powers, I think it is worth writing down: “adding within my competence”. And I'd like you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u58	The committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u59	The committee's decision is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u60	I'm putting the number seven amendment to Matthew's vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:50:26]] For-103 Not supported. 8th Amendment Onechuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, when I reported the bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the first reading, I drew attention to the specific legal status of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is defined not only by the Constitution but also by the laws of Ukraine. This is article 120 of the last part of the Constitution. It tells us that the organization, authority and order of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are determined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. That's what this was all about. But, well, it's not surprising, despite her apparent disagreement with the Constitution, it's out of the question. [[I mean, the editorial proposed by the committee.]] Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u62	The thought of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u63	The committee's decision to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u64	I put to the vote Amendment No. 8 Onichuka Mikoli to add the word “and by this law”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:51:38]] For-97 Not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the President of Ukraine. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is also of a principled nature on a conceptual scale. I draw your attention to the fact that in the Constitution the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is defined as a higher body in the system of executive organs. Instead, there is no clear definition of this term in the Constitution or in any other legal instrument. Moreover, in the law and also in the Constitution, concepts such as “central executive authorities” and “local executive authorities” are used. Again, the content of these legal provisions is nowhere to be determined. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes that the content of these legal concepts be clearly defined in the legal order. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Well, the committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u67	The cook is preparing a new law that will complement everything he has said and the committee has decided to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u68	I'm putting the President's 9th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:13]] For-58 Not accepted. 10th Amendment. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u69	Honourable national MPs, as is very often the case, especially in the important laws that are passed in this room, one of the first articles of such laws contains an article that defines the terms used by the legislator in the relevant legislation. In this regard, the President actually proposes to give a clear legal definition of such concepts as the example, which is used in this law. The concept of public policy, the concept of “political programme”, “public political office”, political responsibility” and so on. Taking into account this situation, the request for support. By the way, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that regardless of what a new law on central executive authorities can be prepared, this concept is used in this bill, and it has no legal definition. Therefore, in view of this situation, we ask for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u71	The committee's decision is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u72	Although there are good thoughts here. I'll bet you an amendment number ten, please. [[10:54:46]] For-60 Not supported. Eleventh Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine proposes that the constitutional norms set out in article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine be more clearly reproduced, in particular in the definition of the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine proposes to identify the six main tasks of the government, namely: ensuring human and civil rights and freedoms; ensuring the State sovereignty of Ukraine's economic independence and national security; Developing a strategy for state and system development by text; The implementation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President of Ukraine, the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Paragraph 5 — What Is the Bible’s A fair distribution of social wealth, rational use of natural resources, and so forth. And the sixth point. The proper functioning of the public service system. These are the six basic tasks proposed by the President that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be concerned with. In fact, it's not clear why the profile committee is proposing to reject such a proposal, it would seem, a perfectly logical proposal from the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u74	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u75	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u76	I'm putting Amendment 11 of the President of Ukraine to the vote. [[10:56:31]] For-69 Not supported. 12 repairs, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 13th, Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I would like to point out that the second article in the committee's paper violates all the principles of legal engineering and does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. It repeats some of the norms, part of the rules of article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers are recorded. Here they are referred to as “Basic tasks”, and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers is described in 21 articles in a very different and inappropriate way even for these core tasks. That's why my proposal is to move away from the text of article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine here, and to implement it in 21 articles, where the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers are recorded. There they can be detailed and developed, and then they can be given basic, really, tasks -- the issues that the Cabinet of Ministers has to deal with all the time, not those that have to exercise their powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u78	The committee doesn't support it, does it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u80	I'm voting on amendment number 13 of my colleague Klukkowski. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:12]] For-84 Not supported. 14th, colleague of Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u81	Matvinko, the Sobor Group, our Ukraine. I'd like to proceed, Adam Ivanovich, with your request to Victor Mikolaiovich. Each author of the amendment reasons for his amendment and explains why he is making it. I'd like the committee to report why he's rejecting it, because then no one understands what we're talking about right now. And he can't do that because the committee didn't actually consider the amendment, it didn't argue the deviation, it did the will of Gruszewski, it did the Cabinet of Ministers. This is evidence of the formality of the approach to each correction. Now, about my correction. I really believe that the Cabinet of Ministers has misdesigned article 116. If he insists on this, let's write not a task, but a mandate, because only what is written in law and all tasks are allowed and we will not write out and in this way bring this article to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u82	I support you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, in what we bring, but I think the reporter's right to answer as he answers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u83	That's the first one. And the others. My colleague Matvienko demonstrated that he had left the committee meeting, and we considered the amendments, including his amendment. And so did we, and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. He wasn't at the meeting last night either.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u84	Please vote on Amendment 14. Replica after the vote. [[11:00:20]] For-82 Not supported. Please, Matvienka, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u85	Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I'd like to ask you to conduct yourself properly as a reporter. I was on a mission yesterday, which, by the way, was signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. And to mislead the entire Ukrainian people, because that's what the story wants today, I think it's inappropriate. So please act adequately on the rostrum of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, once again I ask you not to demand from each other what your colleague does not want to do, because tomorrow there will be a feedback, tomorrow someone else will be put on the stand and said: “You only say what I want to hear.” Well, that's not real! Please, the 15th amendment, Yavorowski. Don't insist. 16th, accounted for. Onichuk is 17. Don't insist. The 18th is the same thing. 19th President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u87	Honourable National Deputies, in a draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, part one defines the so - called principles of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is done literally in one paragraph. Rather, these individual so - called principles have no meaningful legal fulfillment at all. That is why the President of Ukraine, first of all, proposes to give a clear legal definition of these principles so that they can be applied in specific activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but also to extend the principles that the Cabinet of Ministers would have to carry out its functions. I put a particular emphasis on this because Parliament has to be a monitoring body in relation to the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If they are not clearly defined on a legal scale by the very principles on which the Cabinet of Ministers is to carry out its obligations, please tell me how Parliament should then carry out its primary function as a monitoring body? Therefore, it is still a request to support this amendment. It seems to me that it is completely logical and appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u88	I'm betting on the vote on amendment number 19 of the President. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:03:17]] Z-87 Not supported. Okay, amendment number 20. Giga doesn't insist. Pisarenko — 21. Don't insist. Klukkowski is partially accounted for. Please, 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Yuri Küchkowski. What's written here is partially counted. It's a mockery of the offer. Because half a word is included in the entire offer. And that's why they wrote it in part. The basic idea of this proposal is a list of principles, but their content is not revealed, but it is really very important to write in the Law, as the content of such principles is understood for the purposes of this Law. In particular, competitive principles such as the rule of law and the rule of law. What's more, it's very important to write this down that's why. That then a number of these principles are violated in the text of the Law. For example, interference with the constitutional authority of other authorities and officials that conflict with the principle of legality violates the principle of collegiality when one person is authorized to decide for the entire cabinet of ministers and a number of others. In fact, the lack of content in these principles in the Law allows them to be violated. So you have to write them down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u90	Yes, thank you. The committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u91	Partially counted, it's all written there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u92	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 22nd colleague of Klukkowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:09]] For-69 Kenzer, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u93	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, each author of the amendment explains why he made the amendment and its meaning in the context itself. The text of the law. Your argument as a reporter for why the committee refused was simply a stupid committee. Can you argue? Why did the committee reject any amendment made by the Ukrainian national deputy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u94	Stupidly, look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I'd like to replace that word with another word: understandably. So the committee's decision is clear. Do not enter into a conflict situation. 23rd, Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u96	Adam Ivanovich, since the 19th amendment, which duplicates my amendment to a large extent, was rejected, I'm taking the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u97	Right. 24th, Logwinenka, don't insist. Pisarenko, 25th, doesn't insist. Klukkowski, 26th. Yuri Bogdanovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u98	I'm sorry, it's about the 26th amendment, right? Dear colleagues, this is a typical example of how the principle of legality is violated. Note that laws such as the Cabinet of Ministers Act have the characteristics of regulating the positive behavior of those subjects whose conduct is regulated by the law. It says, however, that unlawful interference is not allowed, which comes out of the general principles of the rule of law, but when we discuss it on the committee, I asked the Justice Ministry's representative a question, and who will determine whose conduct is legitimate and whose conduct is wrong? What intervention is rightful, which is wrong? The answer was, in fact, the Cabinet itself. Here's all the law and all the rule of law. I propose that this sentence be deleted as being contrary to the rule of law and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u99	It's the 26th amendment of Klukkowski's colleague. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:07:51]] For-83 Not supported. 27th, Bondar. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Logwinko, 28th, doesn't insist. Klukkowski, partially accounted for, 29th, doesn't insist. Matvienka, 30th. Don't insist. Long Taras, 31st, doesn't insist. Matvienko, 32nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u100	I've taken off my offer in the 30th and 32nd since my proposal for the preceding article has not been taken into account. And then they predicted these standards of the preceding article. That's why I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Long, 33rd, no insistence. 34th, Klukkowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u102	This, the rejection of this amendment is another example of ignoring the principles of the Constitution. The point is that this is represented without any understanding of the meaning of Article 113 of the Constitution. Yet the law must be for the implementation of the entire Constitution, not a separate part. And that's why it's just the 6th article on part three and the first article of article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to carry out all acts of the President within the limits of his mandate, not just decrees. And there is also a decision by the Constitutional Court, which is binding. We cannot do without them. That's why the President's orders to write down the President's actions are also proposed here. Again, this is in line with the rule of law and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u103	It refers to the arrangements that they sometimes have and the assignments. I'm voting on the 34th amendment of my colleague Klukkowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:56]] For-75 35th. It's the same with Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u104	Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to address you. If, in fact, there is a similar correction, as long as we are not conspiring to write the amendments, you would like to say it immediately if you do not delay the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u105	Thank you. Long, 36th, no insistence. It's the 37th part of the president. Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine does not insist on considering his amendment, for it is indeed an editorial consideration. Instead, your attention should be drawn to the following situation. Please read the title of this article: “Legal Principles for the Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. And now read part 2 of article 4, paragraph 4, more faithfully, where it comes from the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is dealing with other current issues of its activity. Please tell us, how does Kabina’s legal principles of activity relate to such a legal norm as to other current issues of her activity? It seems to me that there is some inadequacy here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u107	So we don't vote. Yeah, 38 in part, 39 in Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u108	There's a new problem, so to speak, partly taking into account, by rejecting the point. Note what we are talking about. What should the Cabinet Rules regulate? Can he determine the order of action of the Cabinet of Ministers? Because part 2 of article 19 of the Constitution states that the authorities of Ukraine exercise their own, act solely on the basis of, within, and in the manner established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, the Rules can take into account only procedural issues of internal activity, not the order of action of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's basically different things. And here again we see the attitude towards both the Constitution and the principles of legality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u109	I'm voting on the 39th Amendment of Klukkowski. [[11:12:32]] Z-71 Not supported. Sorokova's about the same key. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u110	“The Council”, “Our Ukraine”. Adam Ivanovich and the well-respected reporter, I want to demonstrate in this example how we approach the standards of the law. Look what's written. One word has been changed. The Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, approves the Rules of Procedure of the Cabinet of Ministers and regulates other matters of its activities. Please tell me, knowing the current style of the Cabinet of Ministers, that it will record whatever it is that will live by other laws. Therefore, my amendment was that there is a regulation that determines the order of the organization of its activities, although to some extent to regulate, to bring government activities into line. That is why there is no need for the Rules. There's no purity of the law, there's just some vachanalia. And these changes, it seems, are not political, they refuse because no one wants to think. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u111	I think it's the right thing to do, but let the room be defined. Please be sure, Amendment 40. [[11:14:03]] For-88 Not supported. 41. 42. Matvienko. Declined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u112	Adam Ivanovich, well, in part, I don't have any warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u113	No, it's not. Here's the thing, you propose to write, is that the location of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the capital of Ukraine, the city of Hero Kiev, and in that project is simply located in Kiev. Yes, please. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u114	I think it's legally more the right place to be than the right place to be. But again, I want us to understand that no one wants to listen to any argument. He doesn't like it just because he's an opposition MP. Let's subtract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, let's support this amendment of colleague Matvienko, it's a more accurate reflection of the meaning of the law. Please vote. The site of Kiev is the city of Hero. Vote! Vote! Vote! [[11:15:35]] For 111 Not supported. Yes, Carpathian 43, not necessarily. 44th President of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! This amendment is actually made up of two separate parts. In the first part, the President of Ukraine proposes to limit the number of Vice-Ministers in addition to the fact that there is no such restriction in the Constitution. In the second part, there is a proposal that, as far as I am concerned, probably deserves support. The President of Ukraine proposes to allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint a minister without a portfolio. This is a general European practice and it seems to me that it might be useful in our circumstances if the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine could have just as a minister who could be given special assignments. They're in the government now, by the way. So let Adam Ivanovich make an amendment to the amendment. The request not to vote on the first part of this amendment, 44th, where it is proposed to limit the number of Deputy Prime Ministers, and the President of Ukraine insists that the second part of this amendment be voted on. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u117	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. You did the right thing, just as you did under the Constitution. Because the Constitution doesn't limit numbers. Yes, I'm putting the second part of the 44th president's amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:17:19]] For-84 Not supported. 45th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 46th, well, colleague Matvienko asked if they were repeating themselves, and we've just voted not to waste time. 47th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 48th, Klukkowski. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this is an example of an amendment that reflects the desire to have an undeclared law. Note this. The concept of the numerical composition of the Cabinet of Ministers occurs many times in law. It is also reflected in the Constitution of Ukraine. If the Cabinet of Ministers is not formed within the relevant term, the Supreme Council may be dismissed. Yet, there is no understanding of how the number of cabinets is determined. The committee’s proposal says that it is established by the Supreme Council, coming out of its general composition. How Is It Established? How? My amendment specifies this problem and suggests that the Supreme Council, by its decision, together with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, determine its sizeable composition, such as 24 officials or 28 officials. So just to be clear, here's the number of cabinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u119	Yes, please, 49 also resounds. That's why Matthew's microphone. We're going to define these two immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, really, if you don't, I'm here to support an absolute MP of Klukkowski, we have clarity, there's a rereading. And today, all of us see a lack of clarity in the Constitution, allowing for a double reading, and therefore the crisis of power to which we are going. If we have two thirds and we have the norm of an unformed government, I call once again to common sense, to what obviously we need to determine the quantity composition, because then comes the norm that we have to recognize, or the formed government, or the unformed government. And I can't see, again, here's the argument. I'd like to hear them, Adam Ivanovich, or the government here. Well, give him your word if Viktor Mikolayovich can't explain anything. Why is this amendment rejected? Why is it not accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u121	Explain to your first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u122	Anatoly Sergiyovich, well, if we start poking around, we'll start stabbing each other. I understand and understand that. That's the first one. That's not the norm of this law. And it clearly states: “The Supreme Council sets the number. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u123	I'm voting on the 48th and 49th amendments because they complement each other. Please. This is the amendment of Klukkowski and Matvienka. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:39]] For-83 Not supported. The 50th Amendment, Roman Mikhailovich, is partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u124	The president of Ukraine does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u125	Don't insist. 51, Loganna, don't insist. Pisarenko, no. Klukkowski, 53, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! Here's a loud case of non-regulatory. Yet I appeal to the distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. What you wrote here is going to hit you on certain conditions. Eat what is proposed: They are not part of the public service, they are not covered by labour legislation, but are governed by some law that is not available today. The Cabinet of Ministers Act will take effect, and the law is not yet visible in nature. And I'm asking, how are you going to calculate the internship that you're going to be retiring or in other jobs? You can't do that. And so my proposal is to write that these positions are regulated by this law and to give a chapter in the law that defines the specificities of the service in such positions. If this does not work, refer this to the State Service Act and enter the section “Policy posts” that have features of the service but leave it unattended.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u127	The right sentence, I put it to the vote, amendment 53. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:28]] Z-87 54, Matthew. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u128	Matvienko. I would like to stress once again what needs to be clearly settled, what a “political position” is, and should be clearly prescribed the status of this political office. I'm talking to the majority who formed the government today, you're not in this way defending the minister as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, you're not defining his authority, you're not defending him, you're saying it's a political office. And this is my 58th amendment, and so I'm asking you to vote on this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u129	Please, the 54th amendment of colleague Matthew and 58th is to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:23:45]] For-82 Not supported. 55th, Smitch. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, during the consideration of the bill that we are considering today, I have been presented with 48 general amendments and additions to the individual articles of this bill. During the committee’s consideration, eight of my amendments were taken into account, while others were rejected for one reason or another. I agreed with the profile committee’s point of view. So I propose a reduction in time with the adjustments that have been taken into account, and I agree. Those amendments that have been rejected, I too agree. That is why it is accepted for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u131	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich. Others are encouraged to follow your example. 57th President of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the legal situation contained in the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly in the second part of article 90, which refers to the fact that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be suspended in a timely manner in the absence of a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers for 60 days. It is this constitutional position that is not reflected in this basic work and activity of the government of the bill. So the President of Ukraine is proposing that this constitutional rule be reproduced in this particular part. That is, in the case of the prior composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or its early retirement, the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is formed within 60 days. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u133	I'm betting on the President's 57th amendment. [[11:26:06]] For-83 83, not supported. Yavorowski, 60. Don't insist. Infantry, 61. Don't insist. Onechuk, 62. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, please note that the part of the article to which the amendment is made sets out the requirements for members of the Cabinet of Ministers on their appointment. And one requirement is to speak the national language. And it's good that the government, by the way, agreed. And the point of the amendment is that. I suggested that more liberalize the requirement of the judiciary. Instead, I will not insist on her vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u135	Thank you. 63. A similar amendment by colleague Bodnar Helena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u136	I'm sorry, I've been Olga since birth. What I'm saying is, it looks really strange, but I'm looking at the text that the committee adopted, and it's like my amendment is taken into account. But I can't understand why it's written "refused." Why is it suggested that the amendment that says that there can be no Kabina membership be ineffective or that those who have an unrepentant trial are not removed in the legal order? I can't understand how that is?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u137	Because these are common standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u138	No, there's a part of it. The word “incompetence ” is simply not counted. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Pisarenko, 54. Don't insist. 65 An Interesting Amendment to Matthew’s Collegiate Dictionary 25 years to have a member of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u139	Matvienko. Adam Ivanovich, please, there's no explanation. Well, maybe the government wants to explain. Take a look at the government bed and give them an explanation. Well, people want to know what argument we're taking before we're deflecting or accepting an amendment. As far as I'm concerned. Explain to me: a judge can't be appointed earlier than five years of his employment, so 18, or what, 20 plus five is 25. As a result, I suggested: well, a member of the government can't be 18 or 20 years of age, at least a little bit of production, let him learn a little bit. So it's been proposed for 25 years. Well, I think it's a liberal norm. We're going to have a member of the government tomorrow, we're not going to argue at all, we're going to have a member of the government tomorrow, we're going to have a member of the government. The same is true of the judges. I propose to vote on this amendment. It regulates the normal norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u140	Honorable Anatoly Sergiyovich, on the subject of the trial, is in the order of the one who is supported: those who have an unquenched, unquenched trial are not removed in accordance with the law. That's what's left. So the standard of 25 years is the vote. I'm betting on an amendment to the 65th of Matvienka that Ukrainian citizens may be appointed to the Cabinet of Ministers for a term of not less than 25 years. We're on our way. [[11:29:49]] Z-87 Not supported. 67th-- partially counted. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u141	Thank you. It's really counted. But I asked for the words to emphasize: I didn't want to speak not because I refuse to make amendments as my colleague, but because this amendment is really taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u142	Thank you. Matvienko, 68th. It's okay. Partially counted. 69th is Klukkowski. Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u143	It's about two amendments, 69th and 70th. You know, I don't stop wondering why they're being rejected. The point is that the proposed edition of the first and second parts of article 8 is not clear enough, it confuses different things in its regulation, it doesn't fit the legal technique. Well, believe me, to reject such politically harmless amendments that just improve the text, well, just means to treat the amendment with great prejudice. I understand that there was a team here: every amendment that comes from the Presidential faction has to be rejected. And I don't understand the motive here, which is simply a clearer lecture and a clearer regulation on parts of the relevant rules of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u144	I fully support you and put to the vote these two amendments. They improve the Law. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:30.]] For-83 Although I also supported you, Yuri Bogdanovich. 71st Presidential Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u145	Honourable National Deputies, the Constitution determines that the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing to the President of Ukraine to run for office as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Instead, the procedure for this procedure is neither defined by the Constitution nor by any other legal or regulatory act which would be of the nature of the Law. This procedure is prescribed in the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the Rules are not of the nature of the Law, i.e. they are a sub-legislative legal act, and therefore they cannot extend to the President of Ukraine. In order to ensure that the President has no reason to question whether the creation of a coalition of parliamentary factions, or to make such a proposal to him, regarding the appointment, more loyally, of a candidate for the post of prime minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine proposes that such a proposal from the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine be reinforced by signatures of at least 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Which in itself would indicate that such a coalition was actually created in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't understand why the profile committee just rejected such a one, but again, it would be a perfectly logical proposal from the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u146	This is the norm of the Faction Rules. This is the first time. Second, as we consider the Law on the President, we will consider his rights and obligations in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u147	You know, the President's proposal is normal in the sense that, in fact, we then, well, take away the goats to check, is there a coalition, is it not? Here are 226 signatures. I think we can support her. I'll bet you a vote on the 72nd amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:47]] Z-85 Not supported. Klukkowski, 72nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. I have no warning about this amendment because it is related to the following. But I'm going to use that word to realize my right of denial against the next amendment, which is counted, but it's very, very unconstitutional. She's handing over a coalition of MPs to the President of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, we understand perfectly where the rule of law is, where the rule of law is, where the principle of power-sharing is. Well, it's a proposition across from anything in the state's legal field.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u149	Yuri Bogdanovich, it's because you didn't make that amendment. I am. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u150	I understand my colleague Klukkowski. He's right, and he's not. On the one hand, it does, because it's a constitutional norm. And second of all, we do. After all, when you and I wrote down the rules of the Constitution, you remember, we did count if the President didn't sign the law. We've done no worse, we've done the right thing, and we need something here. In that case, I'm voting for the 73rd Tikhov Amendment. Please vote. Vote. [[11:35:27]] For 190 The factions, please. Regional Party 152, Timoshenko Block 3, "Our Ukraine"-1, Socialists 14, Communists 19, non-fractional - 1. Garbage, please. Smith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Garbage, Party of Regions. I would still ask you to come back to this question on the grounds that some of the deputies did not understand how you put the question to the vote. Therefore, please put to the re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, some of the deputies are just relaxed. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u153	She doesn't have to vote, she's counted. [[11:36:32]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u154	It's not a violation of the Rules, because 233 deputies said we were coming back. That's our accepted standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u155	She doesn't have to say it at all, she's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u156	Victor Mikolaiovich, she needs to be voted on if there's a denial of the MP. Because the committee's decision is not a law yet. I repeat, the decision of the committee is only your proposal, and it must be confirmed by the decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u157	I ask you to vote and confirm the amendment to the 73rd colleague of Tikhov. Vote. [[11:37:15]] For 246 Copy that. Olga Bodnar, 74th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I don't understand. Explain, maybe I don't understand something. First, you allow yourself to be members of the Cabinet of Ministers to be ineffective. Then you allow these effective individuals to be less than 25 years old. And now you're letting them not write their own autobiography, not give you information about the whole job, about the state of income. Is there anything you can hide from the Cabinet? Can the Cabinet of Ministers not write their own autobiography? Why is this amendment rejected? I can't understand, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u159	In the fourth column, it's all there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u160	I'm putting to the vote the 74th amendment of colleague Bodnar. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:38:37]] For 155 Not supported. Seventy-five, partially accounted for. Matvienka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u161	Matvienko, “Cobor” SUP, “Our Ukraine”. Adam Ivanovich, considering only what is written as a “declaration of income”, but my norm, part four, is the word “income and commitment of a financial nature, including abroad and family members”, which is the principle, because we know that everything has been recorded as family members, he has only one salary and he does not know how he lives for it. It's about the prime minister, the reverend, so radio listeners, not just anyone, not even a private member of the government. And secondly, we know that the prime minister does not seem to know how to write, or candidate. So let's at least check that he has to write his own application. Does he know what Ukrainian writing is? I think it's the minimum that allows us not to act on the Ukrainian people. And I propose a vote. And including the crazed majority who listen to it all like fairy tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u162	I'm putting to the vote the 75th Amendment of Matthew. [[11:40:12]] For the 110. Onechuk, 77th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the amendment is actually editorial, but it shows to some extent that, well, not always our colleagues want to look closely at the Constitution. Well, for example, I'm going to read a rule of the Constitution that clearly indicates the concept used, entry or membership. Article 103 of the Constitution, which states, in particular, that it applies to the President, for example, cannot continue to be part of the constitution. That is, there is already an institutional term in the legal field for “the membership of the governing councils”, and so on, “membership”. Well, dear fellows, let's just stick with it somehow so that we don't create such a variety of terms and definitions that we won't be able to master the legal system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the absolute hearing amendment of colleague Onichuk that the word “membership” let us replace “entry into the fold”. Let's vote on this amendment. Vote. That's constitutionally accurate. Please vote. [[11:41:39]] For 131 Not supported. Yes, colleagues, we're going to continue, but I want to remind you that in one hour we passed with you from 190 27 pages. We work hard, this is how every law needs to be done. So 78 presidents are accounted for. 80 partially. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u165	Thank you. It's very nice to put two different, less important things together in one amendment, to consider, to reject and write, partially counted. Dear colleagues, you are so well defending the rights of the coalition, which, instead of the President, can submit and appoint the Prime Minister, and tell us what to do in that case, if that happens, that the candidature proposed by the coalition, I, for God's sake, do not mean an anti-crisis coalition, and in the future, when this law is in force, it will turn out that this candidature does not meet the requirements of the Constitution and this law, but is submitted by the President. He still has 15 days to study this question, but he has to make this proposal, even though it does not fit the Constitution. I assure you, no president will do so under the rules of the Constitution. So why is it that my amendment, which predicts this situation, is absolutely idiotic, of course, but unfortunately there are these idiotic situations in our country. So I propose to support this amendment and to provide our country with an unconstitutional prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u166	Yuri Bogdanovich, well, you answered your question why it wasn't included, and more specifically, because the Constitution of this, it doesn't have those terms. And to interpret the Constitution, you might also know who.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u167	I'm betting on the 80th amendment of my colleague Klukkowski. [[11:43:46]] For-80 The 80th amendment received eighty votes. 81st, President of Ukraine, partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u168	The president doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u169	Don't insist. 82nd Onechuk, partly. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I don't insist on considering this amendment, it's essentially so legal-technical. But I want to support what Yuri Bogdanovich just said when he spoke about what we had just voted before, more faithfully, leaving in the text an unconstitutional requirement for a coalition of MP factions to submit themselves to the Prime Minister. Only this one provision will be sufficient to make a commitment to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u171	83rd, Klukkowski, partially counted. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u172	Adam Ivanovich, is the principle of the difference between the words “on demand” and “on offer”. You know, when a faction asks when a faction requires a prime minister to meet it, and he only sees it as an offer, he can ignore it. And the requirement cannot be ignored. So I think that's the principle of editorial distinction. The faction calls for a meeting with the prime minister's candidate. He is obliged to meet her.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u173	I'll bet the vote on the 83rd amendment. [[11:45:37]] Z-77 Not supported. The 84th is partially accounted for. - Don't insist. 85th, Matthew. Same thing. 86th, President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following. The proposal for a coalition of MPs to run for prime minister is made by this coalition to the President. But this is not an offer that is being considered in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're formally considering the President's application, which is formed on the basis of the proposal he got from the coalition of MP factions. It is therefore perfectly logical for the subject to be able to present his application in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is exactly what the President of Ukraine proposes that he be able to present to the Ukrainian National Deputies and present his submission, which he formed on the basis of a proposal he received from the coalition. Nevertheless, the request is to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u175	We don't take that right from the President, but let's think about something else. He did, but he doesn't want to represent. This is one moment. I changed my mind for a night or two. And the second moment. And the President can't physically present, and it's been 60 days, and then the Constitution comes into effect. So it's... it's... But I'm putting this amendment to the 86th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:28]] For-74. 87th. Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u176	Adam Ivanovich, that's why I asked you to give me your word for argument before the vote, you're not paying attention to that. If such adjustments were to be made, it would obviously be wise to save time. But I don't insist on her voting right now, but I just want to say. That we're blowing cold water now. We must give birth to the precedents of mutual respect and proper treatment of all three institutions: the Supreme Council, the President and the Cabinet. We're out of the absurdity that we're experiencing today, out of the absurdity of war. If we keep moving like this, we will never have democratic and civilized norms. I'm recording my amendment because it's not voted on, but I'm stressing once again that the philosophy that we're setting up is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u177	88 counted in part. Baby, it's rejected. Well, here we go. Klukkowski, 90. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u178	This is again an illustration before the principle of legality is applied in this law. Article 83 of the Constitution states that part five of the Constitution establishes that the working order of the Supreme Council is established by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers Act establishes a decision-making procedure for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, with regard to the number of votes, the question is settled by 91 articles of the Constitution and how the Supreme Council Rules should be established. So this rule is unconstitutional. I suggested that it be removed, either duplicated or contravened by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u179	I'm betting on the vote of 90 of the Klukkowski Amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:45.]] For-75 91, Matthew. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! The point of my proposal is that not only do we have to talk in the hall on factions, but we have to hear the whole of Ukraine, we need to hear who we choose as Prime Minister. And obviously he has to make a software statement about the main orientations of future state policy and answer questions. And this has to be regulated by this law. I would like to hear an explanation of why this amendment is rejected. Why can't it be accepted? And accordingly, if this is accepted, then the part of the seventh is voted, which is correlated with part six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u181	I'll put the 91st to a vote. [[11:50:57]] For-84
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u182	After the vote, I would like to say that the sixth article clearly states that the candidate is speaking with a software application and answers the question. That's what I'm telling my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u183	93rd Onechuk. Don't insist. Yes, 94th, Matthew, the same. Matvienko, 95th. The new submission does not preclude the introduction of previous nominations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u184	I think that the democratic norm, including, you know, the candidatures that are presented there by the Supreme Council or by the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council, this story confirms that it can be reinstated. After that, Adam Ivanovich, even today when voting, someone did not understand, you are asking for a re-vote. I believe that consultations after they can be rejected can lead us to have a re-vote on this candidate. I think we can't just assume that. I propose a vote on this 95 amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u185	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're right to change to the Constitution, and here you have a coalition that should have at least the required number of votes. That's why it's nonsense. But I put it to a vote, I put it to a vote of 95. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:44]] For-72 Not supported. Yes, 97th, President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! The basic law of our country imposes an obligation on the President of Ukraine to act as a guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution also contains very clear requirements for candidates for government membership. In the event that these constitutional requirements are not complied with in relation to the candidacy of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine should be able to reject such a candidature, i.e. not to reject it, but to refuse to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand that such an amendment, a similar amendment, was considered earlier, but the President of Ukraine insists on this. I'd like to give you an additional argument. What should you do if a coalition of MPs makes a proposal to the President of Ukraine regarding a person who is not a Ukrainian citizen for the post of Prime Minister? Of course, in such a case, the President of Ukraine should be able to return such a candidature to the same coalition. Therefore, it is a great request to support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u187	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 97 presidents. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:27]] For-73 73, not supported. 98, Keynote microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, in my own time, I asked the Deputy Minister of Justice. He couldn't answer. Please tell me at which point the new prime minister will take office. If from the moment of the decision, I want to remind you that there is an old cabinet of ministers and there is an old prime minister. And this Cabinet of Ministers is working until they're in a new warehouse. So, please tell me, at this point, we have two prime ministers with the same powers? So my suggestion is that the Prime Minister will take office with the entire government at the time of the oath. Until then, after his appointment, he has the authority to hold consultations on the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers and to make proposals to the Supreme Council regarding the appointment of ministers. That's what he needs to make up the Cabinet of Ministers. However, he cannot preside over the meetings of the old Cabinet of Ministers and exercise other powers of prime minister at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u190	The old prime minister, first of all, who was in charge of his duties, made his mandate. And a new one since the Supreme Council's decision was taken, that's understandable to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u191	That's absolutely right. According to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge of the newly elected Supreme Council, and only then do we start to form. He does, but he's already in charge. I'll bet the vote on 98th, please. [[11:56:34]] For-61 Not supported. Soto's accounted for. 101-honored is Klukkowski. Yuri Bogdanovich, 101st.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u192	I would like you to pay attention to the drafting proposed by the committee. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers, apart from two ministers, are appointed to serve as Prime Minister. At the same time, it was forgotten that the Prime Minister was also a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. My proposal is to make an exception for the Prime Minister, and he's also appointed different than the other cabinet members. Even so, the authors of the new committee’s proposal did not notice. I would like to point out that this is aimed at a clearer formulation of the rules of law, but this clarity is not good for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u193	I support that your offer is more clear. I'll put the 101st to a vote, please. [[11:57:44]] For-64 102nd Onechuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, article nine, part one is complemented by a number of provisions already in the decision, which is actually proposed by a committee that is not based on the requirements of a valid constitution that are not provided for by the Constitution. In particular, it gives the President a 15-day term for the submission of suitable nominations. But the constitution of such an imperative for the head of state does not provide. As I have said on many occasions, unlike the institution of the Head of State, its powers and duties are governed solely by the Constitution, and laws cannot be regulated, unlike, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As far as the amendment is concerned, I believe that it may be rejected here and that I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u195	But you suggest we rule out 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u196	Accordingly, I propose to delete part two of article 9, because it indicates that the proposal for nominations for ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, is being submitted. It is important to us in Parliament that the Prime Minister introduces this. Who's he already talking to? With opposition, with coalition, with leaders, or with general congregations, it is no longer a matter of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u197	The 103rd Amendment of the President, the Onechuk and the Matvienka, they will respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u198	The honourable national MPs, the wording contained in the right column, according to the President, do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. I draw your attention to the fact that in the 106th article of the Constitution there is a comprehensive list of the powers of the President of Ukraine, among them is the authority to exercise the leadership of our State's external political activities and it also acts in accordance with this article as commander-in-chief of our armed forces. That's right in front of those items in the 114th article of the Constitution, a clearly defined order for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with this order set out in the Constitution of Ukraine, the submission concerning the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introduced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the exception of two ministers – the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. So the President of Ukraine just insists that these constitutional positions be clearly reflected in this bill. It's a request to support the position of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u199	I'm betting on the President's 103rd amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:42.]] For-65 Not supported. Dear colleagues, a 30-minute recess is announced until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u200	Yes, dear colleagues, I've seen the session of the Kiev City Council and I'm very glad we're working more productively with you. It's about the same as we did when we adopted the Constitution in our previous vocation. Yes, dear colleagues, we continue to work on the most serious document of this sessional period. We stopped with you, 103 votes. 104th, Long, doesn't insist. 105th, Logwinenko, too. Klukkowski 106th, ready for now. Tikhov, count, 107. Klukkowski, 108th. 109th, President. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u201	Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine proposes to present part 3 of this article as follows: the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a single list. One candidature applies to each office of ministers. In this regard, the first sentence of part four should also be deleted. Of course, this is a perfectly logical proposal by the President of Ukraine, because there can be no two candidates for one office as a member of the government. Therefore, a request to support this amendment by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u202	Roman Mikhailovich. But I have another question: if we formed the Cabinet of Ministers, someone resigns, we have to redefine -- once again the only list?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u203	No, there is an article that is regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u204	I see. I'm putting the President's 109th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:37]] For-32 110th, Logwinenko doesn't insist. 111th Onechuk. I can't see you've been locked up. This is page 36. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment. I ask you to pay attention to her and to the committee, and to our colleagues from the anti-crisis coalition. Its ideology is that when the Cabinet of Ministers is formed, the submission, I would stress, should be presented with a single list. This is what is linked to the acquisition of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is known to be legally valid when less than two thirds of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are appointed. So it seems to me that this would be consistent with the principles of integrity in the formation of state bodies, particularly if such an amendment were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u206	Thank you. We voted in principle. True, you have a little novelty so that at least two thirds of the members of the government are on this single list. And a similar amendment to Anatolia Matviennek, 112th, please turn on the microphone, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u207	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. I want to say this because I didn't have the option, voted part three for Tihonov's offer. I would like to point out that it is unconstitutional since it gives the coalition the right to introduce foreign ministers and defence ministers. And only in this part can we no longer count on this law to be passed. Now, about my amendment and about the list. My amendment is that the submission of the President and the Prime Minister on the appointment of members of the Government in part 5, which will now be voted on, is that there is yet another subject, a coalition of MP factions, which in general leads to total confusion in the appointment, although it is correlated with part 3, but this is where the rereading occurs. That means the factions will pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u208	The 112th and 111th amendments are put to the vote. Corrections by Oneschuk and Matthew. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:35:33]] For-40 113th and counted, 114th doesn't insist, 115 counted partially. Matthew does not insist. 116th Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u209	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, notice that this is about a few parts, and I'd like to emphasize two positions. Proposals for a sixth section, where it is assumed that a candidate for a cabinet member should meet any faction he wants to answer the question. Now there's no law. It's only about the Prime Minister. And the second part, the eighth part. After all, when does a member of the Cabinet of Ministers become a member of the Cabinet when he takes office? In the law you will not find the answer to that question, and it is unsustainable. Imagine you're allowing parts to be made, not only by a single list, but also by individual candidates. Can you imagine that first approved, let's say eight candidates, then another eight, they can make an oath separately, or should they all put together? Immediately after their appointment, they become members of the Cabinet and take appropriate positions or not? You will not find the answer in the proposed edition to these questions. This whole mess is going to be created in this respect. Normative acts will be signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u210	There will be no chaos. The decision is about an appointment, there is a KZOT. From that point on, it's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u211	116th amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u212	From the moment of your decision. All of it. [[12:37:29]] For-36
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u213	117. Matvienko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u214	I cannot insist on voting because it is correlated with the previous amendment. But I would like everyone present to understand, that's about the kind of argument that was on the committee of every amendment, that's how the committee considered the reasoned amendment, the majority of the votes, and nobody wants to listen, Adam Ivanovich, nothing. I think that with the quality of our work, both on the Supreme Council and when we consider the fundamental issues on the committees, we will adopt very good laws “that will bring great joy” again “to all the Ukrainian people”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u215	Anatoly Sergiyovich, we agreed with you, you weren't on this committee, and you don't know how it was discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u216	I don't think you've considered this in a committee meeting. Yeah, 118. The verb does not insist. 120. Long doesn't insist. 121 counts. Klukkowski 122 is partially accounted for. Don't insist. Same thing, 123 Matthew partially. Yes, Suslov. President of Ukraine 126.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u217	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the President of Ukraine insists on going back to 113 amendments that change the text of the draft law that was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u218	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u219	What are we talking about? If you can actually argue. This is about reading carefully the right column, where it is proposed to place the Prime Minister of Ukraine or the coalition of MP factions on one level. The Coalition of Deputies does not make submissions, it makes proposals and, of course, it cannot be at the same level as the Prime Minister or the President. Therefore, the President of Ukraine insists that this amendment be voted out and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject it. I mean, let's go back to the editorial that was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u220	I'm at a crossroads. But we're going to vote now. In that sense, let's probably vote on whether he has the right to defend those amendments that don't apply to the President, a representative. But let's do it. I'm putting to the vote the 113th amendment of colleague Tikhov, which is counted. Please support her. Vote. Why don't you sit down for a while? [[12:40:34]] For 213 The factions. A party of 166 regions, I ask you, from "The Council," someone come to me, I've started to have a computer that I can't stand. I can't, I've got the numbers closed, as we've voted on. Who's in charge of coming back? [[12:41:15.]] For 235 We're back. I'm voting in favour of the 113th Tihonov. Please vote. [[12:41:36]] For 233 Copy that. Yes, Roman Mikhailovich. Now on the 126th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my regret at this point that, yes, a clearly unconstitutional position has been taken into account by you and voted on the main text of this law. Now for the 126th offer. The language here is going to change the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the President of Ukraine, this is a procedure that deserves an article. It is the President of Ukraine who proposes to put the procedure for making changes to the Cabinet of Ministers or changing one minister to another person in a separate article. This article is presented in a separate proposal by the President of Ukraine, but in order for us to do so, it is this point in this part of the sixth article that needs to be removed. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u222	The 126th amendment of the President is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:01]] For-45 127th. We didn't make it? Who's in charge of voting? No, they didn't. It's coming off, you don't insist. Take down the vote. Take it off. Klukkowski, 127, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u223	Adam Ivanovich, once again, did not understand the motivation for the rejection of the amendment. Note that those four parts of this article, which are suggested to be referred to in the sixth section, do not fully determine the procedure for changing the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. For example. The Cabinet of Ministers has created a new ministry. How does this happen? How does the Cabinet of Ministers change its size? You're not going to find any answers in these four parts. That is why it is suggested that all the reasons for the changes in the Cabinet be given a separate article. Who's in the way? I still don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u224	It's the 127th amendment of Klukkowski's colleague. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:27]] For-46 128th, Matthew. Don't insist. 129th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine is in fact guided by a certain norm that has already been voted upon by you. The point is that the principles that define the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine define the principle of publicity. In this connection, the principle, according to the President of Ukraine, should, of course, be applied to the formation of a special composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the publication of individual information about each candidate for high office. Especially those who gave reasons to the Ukrainian national deputies to conclude that the future minister would not engage in the illegal lobbying of his personal or corporate interests. In fact, the President of Ukraine proposes in the law to establish a complete list, a comprehensive list of such information that is subject to mandatory publication, including when considering his candidacy as a minister or a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u226	I'm voting on 129 of the President's amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:46:02]] For-51 Not supported. 130, Pisarenko. 131, Klukkowski. Again, it's a good idea. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u227	Thank you for your support, Adam Ivanovich. I've got pretty good ideas. I would like to point out that the title of the article is absolutely absurd. First. The entire article deals with the admission of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Constitution does not know the term “acquiring powers”. A person may be in office, may be released from office, but he may not be in office and be without authority, and may not have authority without being in office. Hence, the foolish name is behind us and a number of other nonsensees in this article. It is therefore proposed that this article be called “Introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u228	And 132. Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u229	I have, unfortunately, gone through the language of “members of the Cabinet of Ministers” and the introduction of membership. So I ask you not to vote on this amendment, but to support the amendment of Klukkowski. Indeed, there is an absurdity that he argued quite clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u230	I'm betting on the vote of 131 of the Klukkowski amendment. [[12:47:37]] For-47 It's a 133rd Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u231	Counted. This proposal is taken into account, this is the only achievement of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u232	Not really, Anatoly Sergiyovich. You proposed that instead of the words "so swearing" you write the words "the oath of that meaning," 133rd. And there was a "swear like that" left, and I looked, in the Constitution there is also a "swear like that". Oh, no? Okay. Copy that, copy that. 135th, Klukkowski. Oh, I'm sorry, 134th. Yes, Roman Mikhailovich, please. It was Klukkowski who hypnotized me. Turn off the microphone. 134th, President, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by one list. The bill also states that each member of the Cabinet of Ministers makes an oath, the text of an oath as set out in the very text of the law. What should be done if a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, after which the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already been taken, refuses to take an oath? How, then, should the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is already in line with the wording contained in this draft law, become legally binding? In this regard, the President proposes that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be considered to have been legally valid since all members of the Cabinet of Ministers took the appropriate oath. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u234	No, we're not voting yet, because this is the same thing. Vote? Okay, we're voting 134th. [[12:49:51]] For-48 Not supported. Klukkowski, 135.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u235	Thank you. First of all, I thank you for not supporting my previous amendment. Notice, Part 1 says that members of the Cabinet of Ministers make an oath before taking office, and this is accepted by the committee, but it does not assign someone to the name. This is the motivation for the rejection of amendments. Now for my 135th amendment. That's what this is about. The Prime Minister always reads an oath, including a member of the Cabinet of Ministers who is appointed in an individual order? I think there's a certain amount of inadequacy here. Let's move on. When exactly do members of the Cabinet of Ministers sign an oath? A month later, a year after that? When does this happen? There is no answer in the law. However, members of the Cabinet of Ministers must act only on the basis of the powers and the manner established by law, not by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u236	Actually, my question is probably half-territorial. Why would they take an oath? Yeah, 135th. And it corresponds to 136. Don't you? And 137 Matthews does not respond? Anatoly Sergiyovich! Okay, I'll bet 135. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:32]] For-47 47, not supported. 136th, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, see what is being proposed in the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers. A member of the Cabinet of Ministers, who refused to take an oath, will be released from office in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, a special decision is needed after that. Please tell me, what if the Supreme Council doesn't vote for his dismissal? He will remain in office, even though he has not completed his duties. He didn't make an oath and he doesn't have any authority. So it's suggested that, first of all, the appointment order should take effect from the time the oath is made. And if a member of the Cabinet of Ministers has not taken an oath, the decision does not take effect on him, it will be annulled, automatically, by the very fact that he has refused to take an oath. Then it makes sense, otherwise it's all some sort of conflict that someone deliberately wants to confuse, everyone who has a bearing on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who has refused to take an oath, are released from office by the Supreme Council, that is, one more decision to make. Maybe let's actually listen to the machine, right? That's the first one. The other one. I looked at the Constitution -- there's no oath in the Cabinet of Ministers, well, they made it up. Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u239	Thank you. My 137th amendment supports the spirit expressed by Mr. Klukkowski, but still requires that, if such a person has appeared, the Supreme Council no longer considers his candidacy as part of the government during the term. And now, Adam Ivanovich, another. The word “serve ” came from the Cabinet of Ministers initiative. I think it's the right thing to do. And once we've recorded that a member of the government is making an oath, which is obviously necessary, let's give it up and write it down without turning ourselves into a corner, that if he doesn't do it, he doesn't get the authority. So if one or the other amendment is voted, I think it's improving the law that we're considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u240	136th and 137th amendments shall be voted on. [[12:54:12]] For-47 140th counted. 141st, partial. The bug, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u241	Dear Adam Ivanovich, as your lawyer, by spirit at least, I would like to pay attention to this amendment now and in general to the comment, as well as to Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, well, we already know that our terms are calculated in moments, days, months and years. So the word "after" doesn't solve anything. And I would ask simply because it's obvious that two thirds of the time I'm in charge. And now about two thirds. Dear colleagues, therefore, we have the situation that there will be ministers who have taken an oath, that is to say, they have been authorized, but since two thirds have not been authorized, the government does not work, there will be two ministers - ministers who exercise authority in connection with the resignation, and the minister who made the mandate, took the oath, gained the authority, but the government does not act. It's me before the amendment, which has already been voted, that two thirds of all forms of formation are listed and approved in order for the government to act from the moment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, well, here's a suggestion to replace the word instead of "after the oath is made" with "the moment of the oath." Let's support it. Vote. Let's vote. [[12:55:59]] For-75 142nd, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u243	Well, first of all, it's the only part in this article that really applies to the entire cabinet of ministers. Note, not the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a ridiculous formulation again. Because the principle of the continuity of the Cabinet of Ministers is established, and this principle is mentioned but not deciphered. And now I'm asking, what, until then we don't have the Cabinet of Ministers? Where, then, is the principle of continuity? I mean, it's called the Cabinet of Ministers. But at the end of the day, I'm going to add that word. Two thirds of its composition. What members? Appointed or Appointed? Once again, there is chaos so that it is not known what this norm determines and how it is applied. You can see that it is easier to fish in a squid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u244	The 142nd amendment to the vote is in place. [[12:57:13]] For-51 Not supported. 143th, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, my amendment repeats the offer of Oneschuk and Klukkowski. I'm not going to insist on putting her to the vote. But I want to pay attention, Adam Ivanovich, once again to the absurdity of many of the norms of this law. And I speak to the hearers, that they may understand the quality of the law that is being passed today by the left hand or by the foot which is written there. Every civil servant in the very small office makes an oath, and in this way he takes up office only then. We have a government, though it makes an oath, that can refuse, and there is no regulation, and in which part this government works, we don't regulate either. I'm taking this one down. But I want to emphasize once again that the law is inconclusive. And today we are successfully voting on it. I mean, we are the Supreme Council with our coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u246	The 144th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u247	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The president of Ukraine, in one of the previous amendments, who unfortunately did not find support, suggested that the procedure be brought together in one legal position. Unfortunately, you didn't support that position, so you decided to break this procedure in different positions in this bill. But with your proposal, of course, there is no point in voting for this amendment by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u248	Right. Thank you. Onechuk, 145th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u249	Honorary colleagues, when the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was created, discussed whether the Supreme Council was obliged and whether it would take a decision in the case of government powers in connection with the election of a new, newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we came to the conclusion that the decision was not taken in that case, because it was a constitutional imperative that could not be imposed on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead, it is pointed out that the Supreme Council’s decree on the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the suspension of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which constituted a mandate for the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, this entry is unconstitutional. Dear colleagues, it's a constitutional imperative, it can't depend on whether a decision is taken or not. So when I say that's partially counted, I point out that that's not the count.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u250	Mikola Vasilovich, there's something I don't understand. I'm going to read your amendment that you're now taking. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the suspension of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which constituted a mandate before the newly elected Supreme Council or whose resignation was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is accepted by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's what it says. Klukkowski 146th, the sixth article is deleted. Are you insisting? Because the president refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u251	Yes, I insist, Adam Ivanovich, I'll explain. Two reasons. The first reason is the one that was partially affected by Mikola Vasilovich just now. Note what is proposed for decision by the Supreme Council, the suspension of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please tell me there's no minister's office after this? Perhaps the term “absorbing powers” is not in the Constitution at all. This is about being released from office of all members of the previous warehouse. But these are different things, well that's the law. Well, that's the illiteracy of the person who wrote that rule. And the second. See what this article regulates. It regulates the number of votes and voting methods of the Supreme Council. Yeah, wait, is this the Supreme Council Act or the Cabinet of Ministers? We have this in both the Rules and the Constitution. And only the Rules and the Constitution determine how the Supreme Council works, not the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why it doesn't make sense in this part, it has to be removed from the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u252	Who wants to delete the 6th article, part 6 of the tenth article, the Klukkowski amendment, 146th, please identify yourself. [[13:01:42]] For-54 Not supported. 149th, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u253	Adam Ivanovich, I will not insist. The Supreme Council does not want the appointment of new members of the Cabinet of Ministers to be clearly regulated, the dismissal of those appointed. I don't want to, I don't need to insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u254	151 Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't really insist on this amendment, it predicts that the programme of action of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is being considered by Parliament, should actually be within the mandate of the government to submit. Well, the government doesn't want a term of office, let it pass for six months, every six months, in principle, I don't deny it, but it's a legal and political economic nonsensus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u256	Yes, they don't. 152 President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u257	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The amendment tabled by the President of Ukraine in this case is of a principled nature. I draw your attention to the fact that article 106, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Constitution states: The President of Ukraine is directing the foreign political activity of the state. Paragraph 17 of the same article states that the President of Ukraine is directing, directing the national security and defence of the state. This article discusses a program of government activity. As is clear from these newly cited constitutional norms, it follows that the Government's programme of activities in part of the foreign political activity of the State, national security and defence policy must be in line with the general course, which is not only determined by the President of Ukraine, but within which he exercises leadership. Therefore, the President insists on supporting this amendment. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u258	I am voting on the amendment of President 152. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:04:17]] For-52 Not supported. Onechuk, 153.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, well, this again applies to the program, specifically referred to in article 11, the proposal was to establish in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the program is being finalized, a deadline for such work was specified. Well, I'm not really particularly principled, I'm not insisting on voting, but I'm just paying attention to the authors and the committee that maybe the term would be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u260	Thank you. The 154th Matthews accounted for. You insist on changing, no. The 155th interesting amendment of the President, please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u261	The president of Ukraine does not insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u262	Yeah, okay. Thank you. 156th, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u263	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I think for the coalition, and for the opposition it's clear that the coalition government's program is based on the election programs of those parties whose factions formed a coalition. Thus, it is predicted that there can be no major change in the way the Cabinet of Ministers operates. There can only be minor adjustments to it because something has been done, something needs to be set further than the adoption of the new program. The program should be adopted as long as this coalition and this government exist. This is suggested in this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u264	Oh, that's okay, I think. Only one thing: how are we going to calculate the constitutional rule that we have no right to resign the Cabinet of Ministers after the year of adoption of the program? Please, Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u265	And this is the government's defense. In order for him to have time to start implementing his program. But imagine. That every year the program will change, approved by the coalition. It makes no sense at all to the constitutional standard of mistrust.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u266	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u267	That's right, Adam Ivanovich. That's right, and we all understand that very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u268	No, no, no. We have the right, i.e. the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to indulgence one year after the adoption of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u269	Now, here's the thing, and if he takes the program again next year, you can't touch it again for a year. Well, this is an interesting moment. Please identify yourself with the 136th amendment. [[13:07:05]] For-53 Not accepted. President of Ukraine, 157th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u270	Dear National Deputies! Regrettably, you did not support the corresponding amendments by the President of Ukraine, where it was suggested that a procedure and order of changes should be brought together in one article, making changes in the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, I do hope for your wisdom, and I would like to ask you to take a close look at this amendment, where it is just one article that proposes to determine all the reasons, all the conditions, all the circumstances. And by the way, it's also the procedure for changing the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Nevertheless, if this proposal finds your support, Adam Ivanovich, it will still have to go back to the president's amendments, which were not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u271	We're going to vote now. But here again, Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u272	The next amendment is mine. And it's close to the point. But I'm asking you to pay attention to one of her features. Let's agree that we can't stop the mandate of a cabinet member except for one time when he died. In all other cases, it is a matter of dismissal, not termination of office and leaving office. Because there's no such thing. By the way, the Constitution doesn't know the term of termination, but it does know the term of discharge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u273	Yes, dear fellows. I combine these two amendments. The point is that we have the right to release the ministers that the President is serving only at the request of the President. This is not clearly stated in the Constitution. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:09:14]] For-56 And here's Klukkowski's proposal for the release and termination of powers is absolutely correct, I think. Yes, the 159th President is partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for perhaps being petty, but please take a look at the right column of this proposed editorial. It takes into account what should be announced about the termination of credentials at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This rule suggests that this could take place at the ninth session, rather than at the first session, as the President of Ukraine suggests. So the President of Ukraine still insists that his amendment be taken fully into account, that at the first meeting of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine there be such a message, that is, such an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u275	I think it's worth listening to. Because, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers may not be making an announcement about how much he's going to do. The election of the new Supreme Council. He has no due date. He's not going to the rostrum, he's not in charge, we can't make an offer to the President. It's been 60 days. True, he did not pass because he did not complete his duties. But without authority, we will not force him to exercise authority. Let's take the president's amendment completely into account. I ask you to vote. Vote. [[13:11:12]] For-300 That would be more friendly for everyone else. Thank you. So the 160s are partially accounted for. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u276	Adam Ivanovich, in fact, my amendment has just been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u277	It's counted, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u278	Since she was solving the same problem, I think that some very big wolf died in the woods, which we voted on at last, heard obvious reasonable suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u279	Well, Klukkowski. He probably doesn't insist on that, because we said more precisely, yes, Yuri Bogdanovich. 163 Presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u280	Is that 163?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u281	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u282	The President won't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u283	164, Klukkowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u284	I'm sorry that the President's representative refused this amendment. I wanted to bring it, but since it was, I didn't bring it. Once again, I want to remind you that there is no, first, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Third Constitution doesn't know. But once again I want to ask the question : “Please tell us, are we an organ? Organs Stopping Powers? So we don't have the Cabinet of Ministers after that?" Because we're the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Cabinet of Ministers. Do you understand the principle of distinction? We're canceling the organ, not its composition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u285	From this question also the next 165. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u286	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Constitution states that in the case of resignations, the government continues to carry out its duties as it does in this law. And the termination of powers, there is no such norm. What is going on with the government? And that is why I am also surprised that we have not voted for the word “departure” and that I would propose to vote and change the name of this article: “in case of resignation”, not “in case of an early termination”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u287	164 and 165 are voting. [[13:13:48]] For-49 167. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u288	Thank you. I reiterate the wording proposed by the authors of the law: “Approvals stop in time.” And the termination of powers is an inappropriate constitution, and the timeliness is inconsistent with the Constitution. Therefore, it is suggested that you write “the authorization of all the compositions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u289	I'll put 167 on the vote. [[13:14:39]] For-51 Not supported. 168th. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u290	Since this article deals with 165, which was not voted on, I'm taking this amendment down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u291	169th, Klukkowski. And the 170th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u292	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, but then give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u293	And then one at a time. 169th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u294	Okay. So this is the 169th amendment that proposes, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to provide a basis for the dismissal of the entire Cabinet of Ministers from office when the new Cabinet of Ministers became operational. This is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not require any further decision by the Supreme Council. From now on, really, the old warehouse doesn't have any authority, and all its members have to be released automatically.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u295	The 169th vote is on the vote. [[13:15:53]] For-54 170th, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u296	Thank you. It's about who I'm from right now, the so-called termination of authority is coming. It says here, in case of resignation. I'm asking? Since resigning or later in accordance with the Constitution until a new government is formed? This is what 170 amendments are aimed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u297	170's on the vote. [[13:16:39]] For-51 Not supported. 171st, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u298	I'm here with your permission for three revisions: 171, 172, 173.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u299	In one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u300	It is said that the Constitution does not provide for a special reason for the suspension of powers in relation to the state of health and that it makes no sense to provide such a basis. In this case, the motive for the Prime Minister's resignation is calmly realized. Therefore, there is no need to separate the grounds and write a crazed procedure involving a set of consulates in order to establish the Prime Minister’s health and, in this case, to talk enough about resignation. Moreover, the only reason we really talk about quitting is when, unfortunately, there is no one left. In connection with death, therefore, it is only then that the terms adopted in the Constitution cease to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u301	Yes, these are three: 171, 172, 173 amendments to Klukkowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:02]] For-54 154th and 5th offers are clear, so they're both going to come forward. That's an interesting novelty. Please, the President of Ukraine and then Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u302	People's Honourable Deputies! This article discusses the permanent suspension of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that is, the definition without exception of all legal grounds, the legal conditions under which the Office of Ministers of Ukraine can be regarded as suspended for a period of time. The President of Ukraine proposes that it be determined that, in the event of the resignation of one third of the members of the government, the office of the Ministers of Ukraine is suspended for a period of time. It seems that then a clear conclusion can be drawn that in such a case the government will be ineffective, so it should be considered that in the event of the resignation of one third of the members of the government, the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be suspended for a period of time. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u303	Yes, it's similar to Klukkowski's. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u304	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, she's not news. Already the authors of the law, the bill, have written in part five of article 10 that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine acquires authority after making an oath of at least two thirds of its members. Thus, when there are no two - thirds, there are no two - thirds that have taken an oath and the authorization is lost. That's basic logic, not news. So to be consistent, when you say "a", say all the other letters of the alphabet. If there are no two-thirds, there is no full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the basis for retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u305	But looking at how it's written, when. They're making an oath. One thing is, when he makes an oath, the entire cabinet of ministers, and then separately. It matters because the entire Cabinet of Ministers made an oath. Okay, we're voting two amendments, 174 and 175. [[13:20:18]] For-51 176th, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u306	This amendment is aimed at implementing a well-known constitutional rule that, if the new government is not formed within 60 days, the Supreme Council can be dissolved by the President of Ukraine. However, the Constitution, which is a sufficiently general act, does not tell us exactly how to calculate this term. So it's proposed to introduce such a part that the beginning of the countdown of those 60 days starts the day after the decision to resign or make a decision to issue a mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u307	I'll take that note. I recall that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that determines how the terms are calculated. They're accounted for and off, and when the calculation starts, that's for all the terms, I think it's here. Although it wasn't too much to write down. I'm voting on the amendment of Klockowsky 176. [[13:21:32]] For-50 Not supported. 177th. Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this Law is unconstitutional in this part as well. Since the Constitution obliges 150 deputies to take the initiative, or the President to consider in the Supreme Council the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. The standard found in the first part of article 14 tells us what can or may not be considered if we follow the logic of this written standard. I think it's another basis for this Law to accept as unconstitutional and another demonstration that reasonable suggestions are taken seriously by those who have rejected the amendment and those who have rejected the amendment and those who cannot comply with the Constitution and its standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u309	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I support you by 50%, and by 50, I will read 87 articles of the Constitution, which unfortunately says so, as stated in the Law. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the President of Ukraine, or at least one third of Ukraine’s national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, may consider the matter.” Unfortunately, it's written in the Constitution, although I'm totally in solidarity with you, because he might consider it, he might not consider it. We're voting on the 177th amendment, but it doesn't fit the Constitution anymore. [[13:23:22]] For-48 178th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about basic ethics. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the suggestion of the President of Ukraine, the time of that consideration should still be in line with the President of Ukraine. The explanation is very simple. The President of Ukraine, since he is directing the foreign political activities of our country, for example, may be in a foreign, foreign assignment. In view of this situation, I feel that there is absolutely no reason not to agree with the President’s proposal contained in this amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u311	She heard it, but it's purely technical. Clearly, if there is a President, without the President, the Supreme Council will never consider it. We're always unreported. Well, there's an amendment. Vote 178. [[13:24:45.]] For-50 Not supported. That's 179, the authors don't insist. 180th, Oneschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, this amendment is close to the content that has just been voted upon, more faithfully, was discussed at the President's observation, more faithfully, by the president's amendment. The point is that if the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is violated by the President, and you know what that right is, then it is in its original form that the Supreme Council reports on it to the President. Instead, it is proposed that the President of Ukraine take part in the plenary session when considering the issue at the proposal of the President of Ukraine. It seems to me that this would more accurately reflect the objective of this article’s regulatory objective. Anyone who submits has to report it at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u313	Maybe he'll report. I'm betting on the 180th amendment. [[13:26:07]] For 275 Copy that. 182th Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u314	Dear colleagues! Indeed, an offer may be made that coincides with appropriate intersessional breaks. It is clear that it can be very rare, but in principle it cannot be excluded. And so my suggestion is not to violate the relevant standards that are prescribed both by the Constitution and by other laws, including this, to consider such a possible break. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u315	That's a good offer. I'd like to make a statement. 182nd. [[13:27:08]] For-56 Not supported. The 183th Matthews accounted for. 184th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u316	Honorable National MPs. The Constitution of Ukraine uses two terms: “liberation” and “retirement”. This is particularly the case in the first part of article 85 of the Constitution and in the second part of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Instead, the Constitution does not know the legal concept of ceasing powers. In view of this and also in view of the legal situation that, in the case of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine continues to exercise its powers, and also in view of the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose mandate has been suspended, cannot continue to exercise its powers, the President of Ukraine proposes to replace the term “discharge of powers” with the word “retirement” in strict compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, so that these legal commissions that I have just spoken of do not arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, it's not like that. I'll read you the 115th article. It's about what we've had more than once. Whether or not there is a difference between termination of authority, the creation of powers, and resignation. They're only trying to get it to one: resignation. And the 115th article says that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in charge of the newly elected Supreme Council. So the word "authority" in the Constitution is what it refers to in the 115th article. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u318	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Constitution also states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who resigned or in accordance with this article, whose authority has been suspended, continues to exercise its authority. Explain to me how a government whose authority is suspended can continue to exercise its authority under the Constitution. It's nonsense. Therefore, it is still necessary to adhere strictly to what is stated in the Constitution. It forms a mandate, and stopping and completing powers are two different things, so the proposal is still to support this amendment by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u319	I can agree by half, but the last sentence of article 115. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was appointed to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, is one form, or the resignation of which was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is a second form, continuing to carry out its mandate before the work of the newly formed. Yes, please, Klukkowski, Matvienko and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u320	Adam Ivanovich, you read exactly the last part of 115 articles and, please note, there is no “absorbing powers”, there is “commissioning powers” and they continue after that, though complex. And there's a resignation. The same article that is currently being discussed does not speak at all of the time of the creation of powers, but it does speak of the cessation of some authority. She's not talking about the entire Cabinet of Ministers at all. She talks about the Prime Minister and regulates the issue of the resignation of the Prime Minister. It's another object of distribution again. The only fourth part of it is also illiterately formulated, and it partially repeats the 13th article, which in this case is the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers. But once again, please pay attention. There's no termination, there's only the Prime Minister's resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u321	It's a power-making exercise. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, without conspiring, there are 3 amendments that reflect one point, but these 3 amendments do again come out of the Constitution. And that, if you don't vote, is another rule that violates the Constitution. Adam Ivanovich, once again, you quote, but there is nowhere in the Constitution to "stop the powers" and "commit the powers". These two standards are different in nature and according to procedure. So we need to understand that not upholding this norm is a regular violation of the Constitution or an inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u323	Yes. All three amendments to 184, 185, 186 of the President, Klukkowski and Matviyenko will be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:32:22]] For-56 Not supported. 187? Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u324	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking her to connect with 193 amendments, to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u325	Yes, please, 193.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u326	The point is that the Constitution does not know, in fact, the cessation of authority, and hence, the state of health should also give way to resignation. So my suggestion here is to give you what you have to say about your retirement, including your health.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u327	Vote 187. [[13:33:09]] For-55 Not supported. 188, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u328	Thank you. Again, a totally harmless political amendment, and I don't understand why it's rejected. See what is proposed, within 10 days, these can actually be reduced to 5 days in connection with the weekend. So it's offered for 15 days, because it's two weeks, and the application on the day of work comes back on the day of work. But there's another thing. Tell me, if the application is made during the inter-sessional period, what should the Supreme Council do in this case? So please look closely at this amendment and it's completely technological, but it fills the stupid gap that is now in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u329	I support you, Yuri Bogdanovich. We vote 188, it's more accurate than that. [[13:34:13]] For-59 Klukkowski, 189th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u330	There is a serious problem, Adam Ivanovich. Look, it's proposed that we stop the prime minister's mandate. And please tell me, does he remain in office? We don't know. No answer. He may be in office, but he does not exercise authority. On the other hand, my suggestion is that he be considered dismissed from office from that time. Because they accepted the resignation, so it doesn't work anymore. But it can come in again, all of this together can go against the standard you've already read, the last part of the 115th article, where the entire Cabinet of Ministers continues to carry out its mandate. So I think that this rule would have to be considered in a way that would make it work, not written anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u331	So we're not voting yet? Yuri Bogdanovich, I get it. That's right. Yes, the 190th accounted for by Klukkowski. 191th, Mathvienne, accounted for. We've already voted 193. 194th, Matvienka. Well, they are. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u332	There is no need to vote, since this has already been rejected by previous rights. But I suggest Mr. Chechtov, this is an organizational question, make a little higher chair so that he doesn't stand there all the time, because he's uncomfortable working like this, and he's given appropriate commands, vote or not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u333	You'd better say something by 195. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u334	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u335	Okay. 198th Matvienko is accounted for. Klukkowski, 200th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u336	Adam Ivanovich, this amendment illustrates the technology of the work of those who formed the last edition. Compare 200th and 202nd amendment, please. They relate to exactly one object, but the 200th is rejected, the 202nd is counted. Thus, the title of the article “Stopping Powers” and the scope of the article is resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u337	Well, we've already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u338	So wait, you're leaving the court in law?Oh, my God! In the title of the article, termination of authority, and in the text of the article there is no termination of authority, but there is resignation!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u339	I'll put 200 to the vote. [[13:36:45]] For-50 Well, 201 the same thing, we're already there. Klukkowski 202; 203 Matvienko - accounted for The 204th of Klukkowski has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u340	Adam Ivanovich, I've already shown that there is a reason in the text already voted for the termination of powers when there are no two-thirds of the cabinet ministers who have sworn. This is a serious norm and it will work because no one has denied it. But you also have to write a procedure. Here's this new article in the 17th verse that's being proposed here, and it's proposing a procedure for this. So it seems to me that again, let's at least use the formal logic, not the “leaf like a flint”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u341	204's on the vote. [[13:37:51]] For-50 Excuse me, 206th. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u342	Dear Adam Ivanovich, perhaps we can offer Victor Mikolayovich a seat, because you are no longer asking him for the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u343	Don't worry about me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u344	But, as far as the matter is concerned, respectable colleagues. Please note that in the text of part one, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I also ask you to pay attention, there are definitions such as this last sentence “continues to carry out its mandate before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. I must point out here that there is no such concept as “beginning to work” in law, particularly in constitutional law. There is only the notion of “before the acquisition of powers by a new composition” and so on by text. So I would ask for the power of, well, the obviousness of this thing to take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u345	206 votes. [[13:39:06]] For-46 Amendments 207, 208 are being submitted. Please, Klukkowski. Then there's Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u346	It seems to me that there is an apopheus at the disposal of part one of the first 18 articles proposed by the drafters of the bill that there is no logic whatsoever. See what it says: “If powers are suspended, they continue to be fulfilled.” People who are good, at least read the text, think about what you are writing. If they have stopped, they have stopped; if they continue to do so, they will continue to do so. That's right. Read what is written in the last part of the 117th article of the Constitution. It says, “or the resignation of which was accepted by the Supreme Council.” I suggested that I write: “ or who is in retirement.’ However, when the authority is terminated, it is not possible to give the authority. Because they didn't stop?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u347	Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u348	I just want to point out that there are different standards throughout the text that are not agreed upon, Adam Ivanovich. The next part is about resigning. The last parts we talked about were terminations. This once again tells us that there is no logic, no single key to this law, that again it is impossible to function. And in this way, to appeal to the President and myself personally, to veto this law, because it can't function even with claims of authority that I could agree to, though government, purely for technical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u349	Anatoly Sergeyevich, you said that 20 times, at least save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u350	Anatoly Sergiyovich, the point is, I've already quoted article 115. There's both the filing authority, and there's the resignation. There are 207 and 208 votes in favour of Klukkowski and Matviyenko. Please vote. [[13:41:18]] For-47 209, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u351	Once again, another puzzle of the logic of the authors of the text. Note that my amendments suggested that the state of health would result in a retirement that had been rejected. I agreed that in the event of death, we have an end to our authority. Now there is an editorial, either in the case of retirement from health or death. Wait, then what did we vote on before, and how do these two standards harmonize? At least read what you wrote!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u352	210th, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u353	She's responding, so I'm also proposing to vote her out, even though in this way, to normalize absurdity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u354	Let's vote 209th and 10th. [[13:42:22]] For-55 Not supported. Yes, Matthew does not insist. Guru, 212, doesn't insist. Yavorowski, 213, doesn't insist. Klukkowski, 214th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u355	Inconstitutionality. Notice what has been done: although the incompatibility prohibited by the Constitution has occurred, we have passed several laws on how this incompatibility is automatically eliminated, and here we allow incompatibility for at least two months. Well, notice what this is about. So this is an unconstitutional norm, it has no right to exist in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u356	I fully support you. We're voting for the amendment. [[13:43:25]] For-52 Not supported. Garbage, rejected, he said. President of Ukraine, 217th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u357	Dear Adam Ivanovich, allow only a little lyric retreat. I would be curious to know how a Kabmin member could resign in connection with his death, but this is already the case. This article proposes that the President of Ukraine determine what to do with the government if one third of its composition is retired. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This is about your authority or, more faithfully, the ability of the coalition to react in this situation, which is more likely in this case, the President of Ukraine is proposing an amendment that is in favour of strengthening the role of the coalition. And somehow you're giving it up. I completely misunderstood your logic in this case. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u358	217. The President's amendment is to be voted on. [[13:44:51]] For-51 51, not supported. 218th, President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u359	In view of the fact that the previous amendments to this part were not supported, there is no point in voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u360	219, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u361	Adam Ivanovich, well, at least you can explain it to everyone. In the event of a person’s termination of office, is he still in office or not? And if she resigns, why not say so? So what is the termination of a cabinet member's mandate? Well, the Constitution only knows the appointment and discharge. And that means we've stopped here, we're paying, we're using the benefits, but we can't work. Well, it's just that some kind of vacation we're offering to the cabinet members.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u362	219, vote. [[13:46:02]] For-46 46. It's the 220th. No, it's not. 221, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u363	You know, one of the principles of legislation is not to write meaningless sentences. So let's read what's written here in part 1. "The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers shall cease to be vested in the Cabinet of Ministers." Is that clear? And I ask again, do they remain in office? That's why my amendment suggests that as soon as the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers began to operate, from this point forward all members of the previous Cabinet of Ministers are deemed to be dismissed without further decisions because there are others assigned to these posts. And their resignation or empowerment took place earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u364	The 221st vote is on the vote. [[13:47:12]] For-50 222nd is Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u365	Dear colleagues, my proposal was that the first part should be to set a standard that we've already experienced with you. You remember that we had, for political reasons, statements by the respective members of the government regarding their credentials, resignations, and more loyalties. In this way this rule was not settled, and we had a month, even two months, of work, during which we did not consider these statements. It is suggested that this rule be settled: give 10 days, but, at the same time, consider that if there are no plenary meetings, these 10 days are included from the beginning of the plenary sessions, so that the Supreme Council regulates the resignation of a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u366	222nd and 223th votes, comrades of Matthew's amendment. [[13:48:24]] For-55 Not supported. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll do this in a way that we'll turn around, because here basically the amendments of two or three subjects of the legislative initiative, we'll ask them to say what they insist on, vote on, determine -- and then in general. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u367	Adam Ivanovich, do it. This is going to be a violation of the established procedure for reviewing the bill. And that'll be the basis for an appeal to the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you to do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u368	So this is what you're waiting for, is it? Okay, you can't wait. Klukkov's 225th amendment for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u369	One of the basics in legal engineering is to write in a way that's clear, so we read again. “The authorizations of the Cabinet of Ministers shall cease.” Well, I'm not talking about quitting. But tell me, one or more? Can one of these be stopped? Once written in a set, you can't do one. So once again, what do we want to say? My offer is to stop one, too. But this rule, which is recorded in the right column, prohibits the release of one member of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u370	We vote for Amendment 225 of Klukkowski, she has the right to life. I'll even support you. [[13:50:01]] For-56 Not supported. Yes, Klukkowski 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u371	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's finally a political amendment, but nevertheless, it's based on the Constitution. I reiterate the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine: defence, national security and foreign policy are his competence, not his prime minister, not his cabinet. In this area, they only do so. What the President said is to ensure the execution of his acts. That's why it can't happen. What the Supreme Council has done is relatively recently, releasing without the President's appointment those members of the Cabinet of Ministers who are under the Constitution within the sphere of competence of the President of Ukraine. So this amendment is, this is unconstitutional, and the amendment proposes to eliminate this unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u372	Well, we've voted a dozen times like this, we'll vote another 15 times. Please, the 227 is the same thing I mean. [[13:51:17]] For-61 Two-eight-year-old son of a bitch? No, it's not. Klukkowski 229th, well, that's the same thing, yes, rejected, Klukkowski is. 231st.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u373	Well, there's once again a proposal to avoid an absurd situation where a living person's authority is terminated. Therefore, it is suggested that a member of the Cabinet of Ministers may retire in a state of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u374	The 231st vote. [[13:52:03]] For-61 Not supported. 232nd, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u375	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u376	Smitch, 233, doesn't insist. Matthew, 234th, no. Matthew, 236th. Well, it's technical to move the part.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u377	Yeah, yeah, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u378	Yeah, 237, Smitch. Klukkowski, 238.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u379	Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you as one of the authors of the Supreme Council Rules: well, protect the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure from interference by legislative acts that have nothing to do with regulating the activities of the Supreme Council. This part regulates the activities of the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers. It is totally inappropriate in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u380	I'm defending the Rules. But you won't spoil the mess with oil. Please vote on this amendment. 238. [[13:53:16]] For-57 241, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u381	Dear colleagues, I think we should write down this rule because it regulates the appointment of those members of the Cabinet of Ministers who acquire their powers to the seat of the liberated and duplicates responsibility to them on the basis of what standards, and necessarily an oath. I think it improves the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u382	We're voting for the 241st amendment. [[13:54:09]] For 278 Copy that. Lappina, 243. Don't insist. Long, 44th. Klukkowski 246th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u383	This amendment of mine is aimed at removing the pointless list contained in the first part of the 20th article in the paper proposed by the authors. Look, there goes a list of all kinds of spheres of authority. And there's something you can miss without noticing. I can see, for example, that there's no insurance. Not at all. And then in the 21st article, there are the right positions. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very dangerous to give such a list and not to write “others”, to make it exhaustive. It might turn out that in some area, the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't have powers because we didn't name them here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u384	We're voting for the 246th amendment. [[13:55:26]] For-54 Not supported. 247th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u385	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. For the same reasons and with the same reasoning that Yuri Bogdanovich has just quoted here, the President of Ukraine is proposing to express or formulate the position of this article in more general or, more faithfully, even conceptually. That is, every detail cannot be included in this article. It would be necessary to follow exactly the line proposed by the President of Ukraine. Instead, in another part of this article, it should be determined that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in allocating powers among government members, should cover all sectors, all vectors of state policy. It seems to me that such an offer by the President deserves the attention and the request to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u386	We vote in favour of the President's proposal, Amendment 247. Mikola Volodymyrovich, you promised to support the entire president. Here you call only actively on others to vote. [[13:56:40]] For-52 Not supported. Garbage, yeah. Klukkowski 249.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u387	Adam Ivanovich, not all central authorities are subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. There are organs with special status. And here it's suggested that we write down what the Cabinet of Ministers is interacting with these organs. The law does not have the right standard. And it's not by chance missing. For example, why is the National Bank not mentioned? Because later, in the 21st article, you'll see, on page 76, the Cabinet of Ministers wants to own the power of the National Bank of Ukraine to make a payment balance. This means that we want to run these organs that have to be independent of executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u388	No, no, who do they depend on? 249 votes. We have many independent bodies, Yuri Bogdanovich. [[13:57:57]] For-56 Not supported. 250th. Don't vote, Yuri Bogdanovich, because that's it. Oh, no? Well, it's technical. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u389	Adam Ivanovich, this is a constitutional amendment. I remind myself once again of part 2 of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the grounds that it is within the scope of authority and in a way, and here they try to go beyond those limits, predicting whenever they want, which is not possible, because it is a conspiracies, so only within the limits of their powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u390	On returning to the Constitution, Amendment 250 of Klukkowski. I'd like to make up my mind. Where do you think you're going? That he does not see the breaking of the Rules? [[13:58:46]] For-56 251. President. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u391	Dear National Deputies, please see the title of this article. The point is that the basic powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be defined here. Then why are we writing the Constitution? It is in this article that the basic powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, should be defined as proposed by the President of Ukraine, the basic tasks and functions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and should be defined in more general terms, that is, where certain spheres of public policy are defined, and more specific powers of individual powers should be defined in sectoral laws. So I would ask you to take a closer look at this article. And by the way, we have to agree with Yuri Bogdanović, who draws your attention to the fact that in certain parts of this bill, as set out in this draft law, they go against, in particular, the National Bank Act. Just in accordance with the National Bank Act, these are exclusive competences, not of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u393	Therefore, we should heed these suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u394	I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. I'm betting on the vote of 251 of the President's amendment. [[14:00:36]] For-54 Not supported. Yes, 259 Pisarenko, 253 Yavorowski, 254 Long Suslov 255, Long 256, 257 Long, Pisarenko, Long, Lapina 262, does not insist, Matthew 263, Smith 264, Long, Pisarenko, Onichuk 268.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u395	Dear colleagues, I can't really understand why this amendment wasn't taken into account, because it's about what the Cabinet of Ministers is doing in the field of legal policy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen. And repairs like that. It provides the Cabinet of Ministers with funding for the maintenance of the courts within the limits set out in the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and creates adequate conditions for the functioning of the courts and the activities of the courts, organizes financial and material technical security for the activities of law enforcement agencies, social protection for employees of the authorities and their families. Well, I read on purpose not to comment, because it's obvious that these functions in the field of legal policy are being performed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u396	The 268th amendment to the vote shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. That's pretty clear, no record. [[14:02:20]] For 259. Now after that, let us write: “It provides medicine, provides culture, provides the army, provides education and so on and so forth.” Let's do it every time. Let's vote for every direction that's in our country. I understand what you want to do about the courts. But I want to write about education, about medicine. 269th, 270th, 271th. 272th, Matthew. Onechuk, 273rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u397	Adam Ivanovich, well, for the sake of the judiciary, you know that we're nowhere to be used, not once, it's a separate branch, I think, what we've pointed out is that the Cabinet of Ministers is providing a separate branch of government in the state -- it's not the case you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u398	Well, if once, fine. Okay, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u399	As far as I'm concerned, thank you. As far as the amendment is concerned, consider, fellow believers. In fact, for many years now, and the appeal is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has its own representative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He's in the Conciliation Council. He's in the hall. Unfortunately, there's no John Ivanovich. And I was just proposing that, uh, there is Ivan Ivanovich, that we just legalize the status of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who represents the Cabinet of Ministers in relations with the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u400	But we can introduce another position. He's going to be a minister and he's going to be a representative of the president, because these are not the same positions. These are non-identical positions, so. Please, the 273rd amendment. [[14:04:17]] For-58 Klukkowski, 273 counts. Onechuk, 278th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u401	Again, dear colleagues, please listen to this amendment. You know that quite often, by adopting the laws of Ukraine, we still have certain obligations to authorize the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out certain actions, thereby exercising the authority to execute a certain law. And this amendment just provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will carry out the other powers provided for in the laws of Ukraine. From my point of view, an absolutely correct record, given that the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers are established, the order of the organization's activities are established by the laws of Ukraine. I'd like some backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u402	The 278. is on the vote. Vote. You won't spoil the mess. [[14:05:34]] For 273 279th President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u403	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Since the conceptual approach proposed by the President of Ukraine, which I think is certainly more logical, has a better chance of a rights-based approach, has not been supported by you, so there is no point in voting on this amendment at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u404	Yes, Yuri Bogdanovich rested a little. 282nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u405	Unfortunately, it won't be long. Adam Ivanovich, first of all. The word “transmission” exists in football, there is no transfer in the right, there is “delegation of powers”. But in essence, the text will be noted: “..if not prohibited by law”. First. Once again, part two of article 19 of the Constitution states that authorities do what is allowed by law. This is not a formulation that is consistent with the Constitution. Oh, that's different. That's the law. Where is this law that forbids anything? So I think it's appropriate here to give a list of the exclusive powers of the Cabinet of Ministers that can't be delegated to anyone. For example, the appointment of directors of certain organs. Can I delegate them to the district government? You can use this position, but it's absurd. So let's write it in writing, not like someone else, the left heel wanted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u406	We vote against the left heel. 282 revisions. [[14:07:23]] For-43 The garbage doesn't insist. Klukkowski, 284.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u407	I have a proposal here to protect the Cabinet of Ministers. Look, I gave the authority to an organ that can't do that. The Minister's office is in control, and he can't take it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u408	Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u409	So let's give him the right to take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u410	Let's do it. 284. [[14:08:05]] For-49 You didn't vote for yourself, Yuri Bogdanovich. Klukkowski, 285.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u411	That's what she was.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u412	No, fourth and fifth. Okay. The garbage doesn't insist. Pisarenko, no. 258 Presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u413	Dear National Deputies! In part two of article 23 and the proposed text of the bill, it is said that the ministries and other central executive authorities are accountable to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What, though, about the governmental authorities to whom they are accountable, and to whom are they accountable and accountable? You can write it like that. You could say they're accountable, they're controlled by the people -- that's one suggestion. The president is proposing to write that they be accountable, controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u414	For example, I would support the President. I'll bet the vote on 288 amendments. [[14:09:22]] For-57 Not supported. Klukkowski, 289th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u415	Adam Ivanovich, we are generally told that we have two kinds of central organs that are not ministries. Some of them work under the roof of the entire Cabinet of Ministers and others in the system of the relevant Ministry. So tell me, is double control allowed in the hierarchical system of administration? If it's in the Ministry system, the Ministry and the Minister are personally responsible for it. You don't need direct control of the Cabinet of Ministers over this body. Give the minister a chance to work, not replace him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u416	289, you don't insist, I get it. Are you insisting? Vote. [[14:10:21]] For-48 Not supported. 290 Presidential corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u417	The President does not insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u418	Yes, Tsuko, Long. President, 294.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u419	Now we've come to the essence of this bill. The country's honourable national deputies, this amendment, is precisely the most plausible of the amendments tabled by the President of Ukraine. What are we talking about? In this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine makes an effort, attempts to distinguish the political functions associated with each ministry, and management functions. This bill defines ministers as political persons and thus does not extend to them the Law on State Service or Labour Law. Instead, this bill does not define how the management function in each department will be ensured. It is precisely the President of Ukraine -- and this is absolutely the principle of the President of Ukraine's insistence -- that it be clearly determined that, according to the legislation on public service in each ministry, public secretaries appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would be responsible for providing administrative services. The management, the management gravity in every department. In the event that this amendment is not taken into account, it is not clear how the legislator intends to provide solely political functions for each minister. This is a principled amendment, and yet the President insists very much on it. In the event that it is not counted, the probability of not being supported by the President of this bill is increasing. I'm putting a particular emphasis on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u420	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we already had secretaries of state. Somehow they refused. And the Constitutional Court made a decision. You didn't? So let's vote for the most plausible amendment of 294. [[14:13:03]] For-53 53, not supported. Yes, Long. Klukkowski, 296.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u421	Adam Ivanovich, this is the development of my amendment, but it's not essentially about that. Look what we're offering. There are several central executives in the Ministry of Finance. For example, the State Treasury. And here, the head of this body will be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the Minister of Finance, but by the Prime Minister. And the minister of finance must, as it were, quietly “abstain” what is imposed on him. Well, tell me where the logic is. And then he has to be responsible for those people. Well, that violates the management system itself. Well, I know he wants to hand it all over to the Prime Minister, but he won't do it anyway! Let's write normally: by this minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u422	296 votes. [[14:14:09]] For-49 Not supported. 298. Well, Yuri Bogdanovich, you may say, but we've voted dozens of times. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u423	Adam Ivanovich, but nevertheless, the truth must be told. And once again, I want to emphasize that this is the constitutional competence of the President of Ukraine. And whatever you want and how much you don't vote here, it's a constitutional competence. And just because you don't want it doesn't mean it won't. It won't be today. It'll be tomorrow. That is why I propose to support this amendment -- and give the President the right to decide those issues, and the personnel, including those relating to the spheres of his constitutional competence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u424	In fact, there was to be written in the Constitution that these two ministers were not appointed by the Supreme Council, but by the President. We're voting 298. [[14:15:14]] For-51 Yeah, let's stop at the 300th Keykovsky. Please, his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u425	Again, note the logic applied in the area of administration. I mean, the minister can be submitted to the deputy heads of the organs that are in his custody, but he can't pass it on to the heads of these organs, only to the Prime Minister himself. Well, what's the point? We have the Prime Minister, the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the super president of Ukraine. Let's give the minister the authority to take charge of his administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-21-m0.u426	There's a 300th amendment to Klukkowski's vote. I see, I see, dear colleagues. Simply, if it does, we will have the opportunity to say that we are already in breach of the Rules. [[14:16:15]] For-59 Yes, dear fellows, of the 190 pages, we passed 90 pages in three hours. Perhaps after lunch we will vote, or we will vote in the evening session to work until we accept it. And now I would ask you to work with me, to vote some ad hoc, so that we can get the judges approved at 4:00, because we had them at 12:30. I was thinking not to interrupt. But unfortunately, it won't work. To hold them, they have to go, so I'd like to support takad-hoc to stop this question of the Cabinet. And in the evening session, at the beginning of his consideration of the question of the election of judges, and then again to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, please vote. Sit down, Victor Mikolaiovich. That's right, take a break. [[14:17:20]] For 269 Thank you. 269. At 16 we'll start with the judges. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. It starts at 4:00 p.m.
