ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote, for the registration, more specifically. Turn on the "Race" system. 403 national deputies registered with cards in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with our agreements, I am reading information on the number of deputies who voted in favour of the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The “Ukraine” regions did not vote, the Communist faction 24, the “Our Ukraine” faction 22, the People's Party faction 19, the Yulia Timoshenko Block 12, the Socialist Party - 15, the People's Block - 22, SDPU - 1, the Ukrainian People's Party, the People's Movement faction - did not vote, the Rebirth Group - 3, the faction of the political party “One Ukraine” - 3, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 7. Dear colleagues, you've been offered 7 candidates. You're not being nominated, please make your proposals, we'll consider it. But let us not claim that someone is blocking the appointment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Child is being announced for consideration. Oh, we've been through this before, I'm sorry. Announcing the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the powers of the judge]] Registration number is 8659. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. For – 184 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. What, what? The information is being prepared! They're cooking! I asked them to prepare! "Regions of Ukraine" - 23, Communists - 51, National Party - 18, "Our Ukraine" - 6, Block Timoshenko - 28, SPU - 21, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, "Rebirth" - 1, National Block - 15, SDPU (o) - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 5, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Reforms and Orders" - 2, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, non-fractional - 3. Please, Maria Marcus, who was to report on this bill. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u2	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of this bill, because the change proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies to article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences is purely technical. To date, only the head has the exclusive right to review decisions and decisions regarding administrative offences. But there is the head of the above - standing court. But there are cases where he is replaced by a substitute, and then, for a long period of time, these matters remain unresolved. This bill is designed to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, and it's going to just, you know, just take a toll on these kinds of things. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of the bill to be put into the agenda today and reviewed. There is nothing, there is only one word “and their intercessors”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u3	Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the argument put forward by the deputy chairman of the committee, I am voting on the proposal to return to the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the powers of the judge]] Please vote. For – 281 Decision taken. We have returned to the consideration of the matter. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the powers of the judge]] Registration number 8659. Please vote. For – 285 Decision taken. Yes, Maria Andriyevna Marcus is invited to the report. Please turn on the microphone. No, respectable colleagues, well, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u4	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I explained the direction of the bill. The Legislative Security Committee considered the bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in the first reading and, if there are no warnings, in general, as a law, because there is no need for any change or suggestion in this case, because the supplement itself is only a clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u5	Dear National Deputies! Who has a different opinion on this matter? Written by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on this? Oh, no? Yuri Anatolyevich takes the right to speak. Please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, microphone. From the Motivation of Voting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Our committee has considered the bill, we support it, and we consider it to be a minor amendment, but it is extremely significant, because when there is no head of any one, the issues related to the functions of the Supreme Court's head should be handled by the lower courts. Regrettably, this gap that is today in legislation is interfering with these processes. That's why the committee supports us. I think Mrs. Marcus is asking the right question, which is the basis, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! A proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as the Law, is being put to the vote. Change the vote. In the first? Okay. I put to the vote the first sentence in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Act amending article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 8659. Please vote. For – 307 Decision taken. There's a warning, isn't there? Well, there's a warning. We can't put it to a vote. Sergey Sass' warning. Well, please, the microphone. Turn on the microphone, please. Sass, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I wanted to draw attention to the following situation: in accordance with the provisions of part two of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokus of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Appeal has the first deputy and deputy heads of the Chambers. So these are positions according to the law. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to assume that the position of his intercessor, do you understand? We need to write this rule more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u9	Please. Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, there will be no harm in doing this to the deputy who will replace the head of the court. But in fact, I think, since the position of deputy is equivalent, it doesn't matter that way. [[whether he is the first, or the second, or the third, as far as the Supreme Court is concerned]] To whom the head will be appointed, he will perform his duties at that time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not always did the first deputy perform his duties. And if you put it on the first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, let's do this -- we'll take it with proper technical editing and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u12	A deputy who performs during the absence of his head’s authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u13	It's a deal. In view of the need for technical revision, I am voting on the approval of the draft Law as a whole as the Law. Registration number 8659. Please vote. For – 318. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Wine, registration number 8537. [[on position clarification]] Please vote. For -288. We put questions in the agenda. Please, Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u14	Thank you. Calinchuk, Clothing, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, dear friends! On behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, a working meeting was held in the city of Mikolayev with scientists, managers and professionals of enterprises engaged in the cultivation of grapes and the production of wine. At the meeting, it was suggested that a number of clarifications, more precise definitions, should be made in the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. At the same time, proposals were made to exclude or replace a number of provisions that could have a negative effect on the production and quality of the country’s wine production. These works were the basis of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Grapes. The project takes into account the requirements of European legislation for the organisation of a raw wine base and State control over the variety composition of grapes. The bill defines the concept of “Schampan Ukraine” and “Schampan Ukraine’s classical” and describes more in detail the technical terms, some articles being brought into line with the laws and regulations already adopted, international standards. In particular, a series of additions and definitions have been introduced to the article of the first chapter of the Ukrainian Act, “For grapes and grapes”, including the definition of “The Horseman of Ukraine” as a product of winemaking; it has been specified that it is a Whispering, Grape Distillation, Wine Production, Primary and Secondary Production and Mixed Enterprises. In this regard, I would like to say that the implementation of the bill does not require additional material and financial costs from the State budget. Our committee, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, positively supported the bill. At the same time, considering that the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Grapes entered into force from the beginning of this year, it is a request for the adoption of the Law introduced in the first reading and in general, unless there are any observations. I would also like to point out that this is for the transcript that the Ukrainian State Budget 2006 Act suspends article 14 of the Ukrainian Wine and Wine Act on the creation of a state inspection of wine and wine. This also calls for the suspension of the current year of certain provisions relating to the State Inspection of Wine and Wine and Articles 4 and 5. I would like the honourable national deputies to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u15	Yes, are there any questions, dear colleagues? Yes, it is. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Please, Alexander Stoyan, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u16	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, well, you say everything well about the law. But there is such national wisdom: “If you don’t say anything about the halva, it won’t be sweet. ” Where can you try all of this? In principle, we support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u17	Let's organize a wine tasting in Parliament's walls, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u18	Yes, dear colleagues, please, Yuri Solomatin, your question. You don't? Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u19	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear reporter, please tell me as much as possible, whether it's affected the problems that this sector has and you're hurting and impacting e to overcome these setbacks, hasty entry or attempts to get Ukraine into the WTO at any cost and to raise the legislative base to join the WTO. Please tell me, what is more important to you is the interests of Ukraine and the wine industry in particular, or the entrance to the WTO at any cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u20	I have to say, and I thank you for asking. I have to say that this law and addition to this law have nothing to do with legislation after the entry into WTO. It's pure, if I may say so, a sectoral bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. You probably know I'm analyzing. Mr. Reporter, Your Honor. Yuri Carmazin. You probably know that I'm going to analyze all the bills. I have two questions to ask you, based on what you haven't reported. The first question is the definition of additions to cognacs, which are solid alcoholic beverages with characteristic bouquets and flavors removed by the way. Specials. machines that have survived for at least three years in oak packaging or stainless or embossed containers with oak glue. They can be released under their own name as cognacs. Also, the strength of wine may range from nine to 20 percent. And you're still doing these definitions. This is the language used in the definitions in the paragraphs of the first article of paragraphs 12, 14. Do you not think that it is a group that promotes its interests as defined by the cognac?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u23	I'm answering. Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u24	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u25	Dear National Deputy Yuri Karmazin. Here comes the definition of cognac, a purely scientific definition of cognac, which corresponds to the international definition of a beverage like cognac. And just as a cognac is made of winemaking, it is part of that law. And there's no interest in others.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u26	Yes. Thank you, time's up for questions. Please have a seat. Who insists on discussing the matter? Yuri Carmazin insists. Well, dear colleagues, I can't refuse to comply with the Rules. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Well, first of all, honourable national MPs, there's a lot of novelties that we haven't been told about. Here, first of all, the cognacs of Ukraine can be produced by their own name, and in us, the name of the cognac is not our name at all. You know we've already had claims about this as a Ukrainian state. A typical white toy wine is presented in the champagne of Ukraine. and so on, which, there are many such serious definitions that we need to get serious conclusions from both the government and the relevant committees. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to say that during the second reading, because I will support the adoption of this law in the first reading, but I strongly deny the adoption of this law as a whole, I strongly deny that we will listen to the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes paragraph 3 of Part 1 that the wording “for the production of wines, vermouths, cognacs and brandy is used by the technical varieties of grapes” and beyond the text. Next. Such concepts as “generally accepted technology” are in the project. Well, common technology in one country is one country, another country is another. And they're different around, these generally accepted technologies. It's suggested to remove it, it's ambiguous interpretation, it's more clearly defined. Yes, in paragraph 30 of article 1 of the Law on Grapes and Vines, instead of the words “guilty, cognac”, write “guilty, vermouth, cognac, brandy”. And so do paragraph 32 of that law. Instead of the words “falsifying wines and cognacs” write “and forging wines, vermouths, cognacs, brandy”, that is to say predict the whole spectrum that can be falsified. When it comes to definitions that apply. We're just complementing the law, and it's not easy. Wine strength may range from 9 to 20 percent. I'm not sure that the strength of this is in agreement with Minsvrat, and that will be all right. So let us see and hear the answer to this question and to the Health Committee that we have in the Supreme Council. We also need to involve them here, and you understand why. Because in such a hurry, as things are now being done, it's obvious you can't do that. So the same goes for the 30th point where it's about the bath. The same is true of article 5, which is made according to the rules governing the production and storage of such wines. And where there's a send-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u28	Who insists on the performance? One minute, one of those guys who signed up. Mikhailo Melniczuk is making a performance. Please, Michael Melniczuk's microphone. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u29	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The faction will support this bill all the more that we believe today, from this point of view to us and to our faction, and to other factions, there are many references to this. And, of course, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in my view of the discussion further they don't need, I suggest you just go to the vote, those colleagues who have the opportunity, or they want to make some suggestions to give us per minute, as an example I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u30	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, do you insist on speaking? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u31	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Unfortunately, our colleague Vassili Antonovich Kalinchuk, in my view, was not entirely honest when he answered my question. And I want to explain why and how this bill relates to Ukraine's accession to the world trade organization. Now we're going to go with you to the supermarkets in Kiev, and we're going to see that there's supposed to be bottles with Soviet champagne, Soviet champagne, but the letters "o" after the letter "c" no, not Soviet bottles, but Soviet champagne, etc. Why is this happening? And that's because the world producers of this kind of product, they protect their brands, that is, their names. And so we're starting to hide the traditional product that our citizens, who respect and love it, are trying to hide it behind such traps. And it looks very unbelievably beautiful, and more than that, it looks mean to the traditions and interests of our domestic producer, not only the consumer, but also the consumer. I would very much like to ask to protect not only the producer, but also our consumer, with his traditions, and with his preferences. Our faction supports this bill in its first reading, but we say over and over again, we do not need to engage in “euro-haling”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u32	Yes, Michael Gladys, microphone please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, Michael Gladys, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. We certainly need to adopt this bill, which improves the protection of our national producer from falsification. It's not enough that we're protecting ourselves as consumers of this product, so, dear colleagues, we need to support this bill, vote in the first reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u34	John the Rabbit. None. Mikola Kruglov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Mikola Kruglov, “Regions of Ukraine”. I'd like to ask you one request. This bill, which we are considering today, has been discussed previously by 20 farmers, managers and technologists from the Mikolai region and the Odessa region. They sat with us for nearly a day and considered issues that prevented them from working. So I have a big request that we don't have to be great legislators, but let's support the idea that our farmers give directly. This is what prevents them from working and what they have accumulated during this period all the shortcomings of our previous law. So I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u36	Yes. Vasil Calinchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to make one thing clear. For the first time, when I talked to Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin about the volume and so on, I said that this is exactly in line with the current regulations of 10.5 large. Or Yuri Solomatin, a respected colleague of ours. When he spoke for "Soviet Champagne," it is we who are bringing champagne into countries so that it does not lose 50 percent of which is made up of "Soviet Champagne" so that it does not lose that name. Here we are making these additions to the law that is now in force. So I'm asking you, dear friends, honourable colleagues, I'm asking you for our domestic producers, let's take it up on the first reading and if I'm still asking you to accept it and in general, because the law entered on January 1st of this year and it's already in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u38	Yes, honourable colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine, on the clarification of regulations. Registration number 8537. Please vote. To – 249. Decision taken. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen. Calm down! I remember everything. I don't have to keep tipping. Ladies and gentlemen, during the morning session, we were instructed by the committee to study questions about the draft decree, and the registration number was 8,700. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, what is the committee's decision? Microphone, please, or on the rostrum, as you please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We tried to gather committee meetings during lunchtime. Of the 20 members of the committee, 3 came to the committee meeting. As a result, we could not, of course, hold a meeting, because in order to open a committee meeting, we had to assemble a quorum of 11 members of the committee in order to then vote 6 for a decision. So I'm going to tell you that there is no committee decision and we couldn't take it in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u40	There's no committee decision, are you? Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u41	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Today, I think we have an opportunity to make a decision if the Supreme Council decides to consider this issue before the day-to-day question of discharge and discharge of the duties of the Minister of Justice and a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, Sergey Petrovich. We had this practice. We have repeatedly asked such questions. I ask you now to address this issue without the committee's proper decision. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has more authority than any committee of the Supreme Council, with all due respect to the committee of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka, which he heads. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u42	Yes, we have heard the initiator's opinion on the matter. Please write down three minutes to exchange your thoughts on this subject. Please, on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u43	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I think we've had a similar kind of conflict in this session hall over and over again. The committee has not considered the bill for a long time, then the committee has not met, so the committee can make a negative decision at all. The last word, according to our legislation on the status of Ukraine’s national MP, the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine are the subject of a legislative initiative. He has the right to demand this vote on his legislative proposal. So in this case, I think we should listen to the proposal of the author of the legislative initiative Nestor Schufrich. Put to the vote and in the session room democratically, the voting method is to be determined in one way or another. And all the other screams, the rapes, the oppressions of passions don't do anything good, nothing, nothing to say to anyone, no one here is going to scare or push anyone, these times, I think it's been a long time since we've been pushed. Let's be calmly tolerant in the session room. Let's make a democratic decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u44	Katerina Samuels, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have also made a decision by noon, which, more faithfully, changes to a law that has not been considered in any committee, so we have this practice. And I think it'll be absolutely right if we look at it. A person needs to be stopped because he is replacing himself with all the branches of power for today. He allows himself not only to comment on the actions of the Supreme Council but also to comment on the Constitution of Ukraine in one way or another, he thinks he is entitled to do so. In general, I believe that we should give the mandate to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to negotiate with the acting Prime Minister of Ukraine, who unkindly in humiliating form comments on what took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, it's bordering on the fact that these people need to be permanently removed from participating in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u46	Please, Karmazin. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like you to know that today, neither the representatives of the Party of the Regions nor the Communist factions participated in the committee's meeting. But the point is that this decree, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have understood it or you have not understood it, and Mr. Schufrich is already beating you in the back, because he himself acknowledges that the government is not retired, that the decision was illegal. That's the first one. It's different. We didn't take the Headman to work, like him or not. We have not accepted it, we can express it in a resolution of mistrust, but we need to make a valid statement. And remember, in addition to 85 articles of the Constitution, there are 87 other articles and there are 115 more. And as the minister of justice, he is obliged to do the expertise he owes. If he hadn't done that, I'd be asking questions about him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u47	I think Yuri Anatoliyovich, I agree with you there in your position, but only one body, the Constitutional Court, can make an assessment of the Supreme Council's decisions. Please, Sonchenko, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u48	Please give the word to Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, director of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u49	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! What is produced by the so - called Justice Minister is more like the Circus Apparitions and Grimes of Life, as Odessa says. He left the shore and forgot what he was doing: he took the nerve to claim that since there was no Constitutional Court, he would treat the laws. He forgot that there is a constitutional Supreme Council, which in the absence of a Constitutional Court is the only body that can interpret laws in any way. His reasoning regarding the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u51	Yes, the discussion is over. Who? Please, calm down. Please, calm down. So, honourable people's deputies, I can put to the vote first, one minute, but I'm asking you to calm down about putting the matter into the agenda. If it is included, then the second is to consider it with derogation from the Rules. This is provided if it is turned on, because you insist on it. So I'm putting to the vote my first proposal for inclusion in the agenda for the consideration of the draft Supreme Council Order 8,700. Please vote. For – 248 What? Well, let's see, your business. I'm going according to the Rules. Insert a question into the agenda. The decision was made in the morning. What do you want? What did I do, please tell me I broke it? Wait, don't scream! I told you that the vote is about inclusion in the agenda. If it is included, then consider it without a committee. Do not vote in favour – why do you vote? So I have no right to bet? I'm asking you to calm down. What is “no ”? What “to fool”? What do you want from me?Oh, my God! What question? What is “serious ”? But I'm asking you to calm down! Please take your seats. Please write it down for three minutes. So, did you write an application for a break? Well, that's the way it's gonna be. I'll be right there. I'm begging you! Because it says, "they can give." Let's ask you a question. Wait! Please! What? Would you like to discuss this? You want a break. 30 minutes. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Please discuss this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a recess of up to 17 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u52	Yes, the distinguished national deputies, the break that was announced at the request of two factions: the factions of the National Movement of Ukraine and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Please, Sergey Slubenko, please, your talks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u53	Dear national MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we asked questions at the morning session about amendments to the Law on the Status of Members of Local Councils on the specificity of criminal offences. Registration number 7732/6. The application initiator is the President of Ukraine. He was identified as urgent. We have come from the fact that, to date, 514 cases have been referred to the prosecutors of all levels in the practice of dealing with cases that have been violated with the integrity of local council deputies. And only 73 of them were considered. Now more and more people are going to the Supreme Council, to the Supreme Council, to the Council, to the local councils, more and more people are trying to come, who have criminal cases that have been violated and have the legal responsibility that they have to bear. But I'm paying attention to something else. It would probably be no big deal if the Constitutional Court worked. And we would probably ask, we would find the opportunity to go to the Constitutional Court, to raise this question, to make an appropriate decision that would solve this problem. But for today, we have a question that changes our minds: election, election of Supreme Council judges with the notion of making an oath to the judges, to whom the same judiciary entrusted itself with representing interests, interests in the Constitutional Court. These people are not the ones being sworn in. People appointed by the President to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court. However, as I return to this decision of the Constitutional Court, which is still in effect in 2001, I would like to draw your attention to the decision. That was adopted on March 28, 2001, in the case of the constitutional submission by the President of Ukraine concerning the official interpretation of part two of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled. The position of part two of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the extraneous review by the Supreme Council of draft laws, as defined by the President as urgent, in the context of the constitutional issue, should be understood to mean that the bills should be promptly incorporated by the Supreme Council into the agenda of its day session and considered in a prior order of priority by other bills at all stages of the legislative process in accordance with the procedure established by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would now like to take a moment to consider the appropriate project that the President has put forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an agreement with you, and these issues are on the agenda for consideration today. I don't think there's anything to worry about, because we just don't allow ourselves to be able to deal with this issue by making applications. I also want to remind our distinguished colleagues that we are aware of one phenomenon. You rightly and correctly demand the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Equally as required in December, when one judge of the Constitutional Court was appointed President and another elected Judge. And by the way, this judge is taking an oath. Then you did not have the opportunity to take an oath. Now you're demanding something, an exception. Then let us agree that we will all act by law. But the point is. Please, you're not yelling. You're not yelling. On the other hand, respectable colleagues. I offer you once again today, seven judges have been tried for office as judges of the Constitutional Court. You're not being set up. Offer your candidacy, and I'll put it to the Supreme Council to vote for it. Well, do something, you're not doing anything. But you hope to act in one way that we will win the election, then we will appoint our judges. And this apriorium shows that we want to have, not an independent judge who would serve only the Constitution, but a political instrument. Thus, the distinguished national deputies, after a break, held consultations with the leaders of various political groups and factions. We consulted and made that decision. I've made this decision, I recommend it. Considering that the committee did not meet and considered this issue, it failed to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so confirm the commission of the committee to consider the draft regulation, and the authors and initiators of the draft decision to reconcile the project with the explanatory note itself. That's the first one. The other one. Give a mandate to the Scientific and Legal Authority to make a decision. And when these documents are all going to be, we're going to consider this procedure, because we're going to look at it from the jump, well, it's going to discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the honourable colleagues. So please organize the committee's work. I think it's right. Now the following questions are to be included in the agenda. Puts the vote to the vote. What? What, what? Well, please sign in for three minutes, if you have any questions. Discussing what? Discussing what? Sign up for three minutes, please. No, no, no, no, sign in. Please sign in, yes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u55	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I would like to suggest that everyone remain calm and call for reasonableness. A normal session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under way. She's no better, no worse. Whoever has a stomach or a head, let him go out into the corridor and veer there. Don't yell at me, for the third time, I've seen you in the grave. There's no such thing as verbal and legal ecvilibrist. There are Ukrainian national MPs, and no one has the right to interfere with us in the session room and determine how to vote. The committee, but I'd like to draw your attention to something else. Little wonder, then, that a certain political power, Lenin said: “The party of power protects its disgustings. ” So at least you do it in some legal or tolerant way. And one more thing. I'm sure I'll make a point of view, the opinion of many Ukrainian national deputies, we need to continue the session at least for a day or two in the following, because there are a number of fundamental political issues that we just have to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u56	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u57	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Valentin Grigorovich Matviyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u58	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u59	Thank you, the Communist faction, Matthew. Dear colleagues! What Mr. Headate compromised himself as one of the chief lawyers in the state from the very beginning of his violent, I would say the activity, to the progress of the minister of justice of Ukraine, is well known to all. Even more vividly, in his paws, his talent certainly opened up within the three days following the resignation of the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers. Clearly, then, all except his friends in the orange camp, such an ambitious, cynical, nervous, unbalanced person cannot hold such a high position of responsibility. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to decide on this issue, but Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have doubts that the Committee of Legal Policy will meet in the next 3-5 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u60	Sergey Zizko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u61	Please give Boris Bespalloma my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u62	Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u63	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! First of all, I ask you to abide by the Rules and the Constitution and not comment on the statements made by the deputies, the more the statements made by the MPs. It's different. As for the oaths of the judges of the Constitutional Court, in the case you refer to, a year ago they blocked the tribune of factions and the political responsibility of those factions is probably the same. In this case, you don't include this issue in the order of the day, and that's why the responsibility is there, nevertheless, in this case you are. Now, with regard to the consideration of important issues, we fully agree. “Our Ukraine” has always insisted that the Supreme Council address socially important issues. But just as a municipalligarchic majority was created, some political games began around the resignation of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again, and I would like to ask my honourable colleagues to read the amendments to the Constitution, where it is written that the Head of the Supreme Council organizes the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm not commenting, I'm clarifying, because you don't have to re-interview, and you have to make the documents clearly what they are. But I think you can make sure that I'm interested that we've had a constitutional court formed and that the judges have been sworn in. Who is blocking these questions? I think it's quite obvious from the outcome of the last vote. Another novel, I think, deserves attention, and we also discussed this proposal not to close the session tomorrow, or say that the Supreme Council made a decision and went into the shadows. We have a lot of documents, especially that the President of Ukraine has stressed that we need to look at about 30 documents. I think we should work in plenary next week, make all the full decisions. If necessary, correct the government or some individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers, who run a divorcing campaign, evaluate everything and place it in place. I'm sure it'll be done. So I propose to prepare a draft decision tomorrow to amend the calendar plan for the session so that next week will be plenary. And also in order to make a comprehensive decision on this issue that we are focused on, I propose that we convene committee meetings and make recommendations to the Supreme Council, Vasil Vasilovich, how we should proceed. Is there no objection? Thank you. The question is now under review. Your Honor, we've just had a consultation and we've agreed that we're going to work, let's make arrangements. Please. I'm voting on the proposal, especially that we should consider the Presidential Bills. I am voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to expedite the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan pursuant to the Ukrainian Act of 20.04.2004 No. 1683-4 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of the Single Economic Space. Registration number 8432. Please be sure. About getting into the daytime. There's a vote coming. [[17:36:11]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yes, the Party of Regions 58, Communists 54, Our Ukraine 2, People's Party 16, Block Timoshenko 0, SPI 2, National Block 21, SPI 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Rebirth - 1, National Movement of Ukraine, Reforms and Orders - Zero, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs - 1, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 3. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the need for a first-line investment of interstate agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to third countries to form the single economic space. Registration number 8431. There's a vote coming. [[17:37:19]] For-141 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 55, Communists - 56, “Our Ukraine” - 0, People's Party - 9, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 2, National Block - 6, SDPU - 10, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, “Rebirth” - 1, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, “One Ukraine” - 0, non-fractional - 1. Please sign up for three minutes. Ask Rephat Chubarov who wants to speak. Well, what can I do? Mikola Komar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u65	Give it to the dry one! Dried!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u66	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, in recent times in the media of the powerful, high - ranking authorities, there has been much talk about Ukraine’s future development, economic stability, the strengthening of our military industrial complex, the metallurgical complex. I don't understand, after the betrayal of national interests, when we signed this gas wall, it's not clear that we need to find a way out of the economic stalemate we're in. Clearly, after what happened, we should seek allies and seek ways to strengthen our positions in European markets. This should be a means of strengthening our position by developing cooperation with industrial enterprises and with the national economy of Russia and Belarus. So I think we're completely, or someone doesn't understand what we're talking about, it's about accepting applications and making a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u68	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u70	Victor Miro Nancy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u71	The Communist faction, Mironenko. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote questions on the return to the vote on Project 8432, 8432-1 on the need to accelerate the creation, real creation, of a single economic space of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, because President Yushchenko, Prime Minister: Timoshenko, Ehanurov, politicians: Kostenko, Moroz, claimed that they were behind the Single Economic Area. And their factions do not now vote, they do not understand what or are lying to the people, deliberately drawing them to the elections, to then come to power and turn their attention to the creation of a single economic space and to renounce any friendly relations with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, to be completely influenced by the United States. Please put to the vote. Let the people figure out who the harm is by constantly covering up patriotism and who it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u72	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u73	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and voters. We've been working in the parliamentary-presidential republic for four days now. And so I want to make a few comments about the violation of the Constitution. Vladimir Mikhailovich, nowhere in the Constitution does it say that the oath of constitutional judges should be made when they are chosen under the reef as if they were storks. They can make an oath to the extent that they are chosen. That's the first one. And that's what I'm stressing. The other one. I asked not to intrigue the Ukrainian people by saying that you want to win and then select judges. Because it won't win the "No YES" block. Because neither we nor you will win, but the Ukrainian people will. Yet, he certainly will win just as he won the presidential election a year ago, defending his right to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u74	Thanks to those whom you call so demeaning right now. First of all, he won. Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. Chubarov's reaction as an exception, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u75	Thank you very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'd like to say the following. That the latest developments involving blackmail by the Russian authorities have finally sobered Ukrainian society from any vain expectations or stereotypes that have remained since Soviet times. But some of our colleagues, the obvious lobbyists of the Russian Federation, still want to impose on us here in Parliament decisions that would be of interest only to our northern neighbor. So, I think we should finally end up with this pressure from some of our colleagues, and the questions that I have already forgotten are no longer the tenth or fifteenth time that the National Deputies of Ukraine, particularly the EPU, are no longer being brought into the Hall. And I think that now again after recent events will be the inventory of all the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Let's do it this way. Now we're going to go over it again so everyone can calm down, because we've come back to all the questions over and over again. I'm asking for your attention. I'll put it to a vote. Who's to go back to the consideration of Bills 8431, 8432? Please be sure. [[17:43:31]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, registration numbers 7732, 7732-1, 7732-2, 7732-3, 7732-4, 7732-5, 7732-6, 8279. [[on Intactness]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:44:23]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 40, People's Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 26, SPI-23, National Block – 0, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, “One Ukraine” – 0, Postfraction – 5. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you who would like to return to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, registration numbers 7732, 7732-1, 7732-2, 7732-3, 7732-4, 7732-5, 7732-6, 8279, please specify. [[on Intactness]] [[17:45:40.]] For 158. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u77	The factions, please. "Regions" and communists are zero, "Our Ukraine" is 37, National Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 33, SPU - 24, National Block, SDPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 11, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "Reforms and Order" - 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 6. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to limit the maximum amount of pensions is now put to the vote. Registration number 8545-1, the Cabinet of Ministers project. I'd like to make up my mind. There's a vote coming. I've already announced, then we will. [[17:47:02]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, head of the committee, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u78	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's not pretend that we don't understand what's going on. Bill number 8445, and I'm its author, one of the authors, and we've filed this document before, and number one came out a day or two later, we're printing one bill and we're saying, "Here, this is the Presidential Bill." I'm sorry, the MP's initiative was earlier, from the point of view of registering this document. So I'd like to get your attention. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you! That's why I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that both bills are to be considered, not one that is excluded from the list of bills. I therefore request that this document be put to the vote again. The faction will support it if two bills are considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u79	As a matter of fact, Peter Stepanovich, a respected colleague, has just given me the clarification that there are two bills: 8445 are deputies and 8445-1 is government. Since they are alternatives, we will now put to the vote again: on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the limitation of maximum pensions, registration numbers 4445, 4445-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:49:01]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 12, Communists – 56, National Party – 1, "Our Ukraine" – 40, Block Timoshenko – 18, SPU – 15, National Block – 0, SDPU(o) – 4, Ukrainian People's Party – 15, "Rebirth" – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, "Reforms and Order" – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 1, "One Ukraine" – 0, "Afterfractional" – 3. Let us now consider making decisions on the issues under discussion Yes, the draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the status and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine. Reporter Tanjuk Les Stepanovich, please. Dear colleagues, you know that we have discussed this issue, a number of proposals have been made for the project to be finalized. A brief account of the innovations that have been completed, Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u80	Dear fellow national deputies, indeed, we have carefully reviewed all the proposals that were made by the Ukrainian national deputies. You can check the text, they're all listed here. I don't think there's much need to discuss this decision, it's agreed here, and I think it's worth a unanimous vote on what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u81	Peter Petrovich's point, please, is a microphone, then Terrence's motive for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u82	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to exclude the third point from this ruling, as completely unliterate and invalid, is: to monitor the activities created, to assist the Institute of Archaeology and the local authorities of the scientific and rescue service organization and so on. First of all, there's no such thing, and second of all, we write that it's done under the law, according to the law. And if, according to the Law, why does he do so? What let black archaeologists do is we give it all as a ransom. In general, the tendency of our Committee on Culture and Spiritual Rebirth raises great doubts about their sincerity. I ask you to delete this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u83	What point is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u84	That's three.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u85	Three three. Conduct the monitoring. Let us therefore, Your Honor, now put to the vote the acceptance as a basis and then the offer of Peter Petrovich. Okay? Terrence, please. And then Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u86	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, a little further away, to go and remind Adam Mickevich that the future of the nation is determined by how it feels about its cultural heritage. And I would like to remind you of how the monuments were destroyed during the communist regime, where when the Council of Success and everyone else, and the Mazepa Decade Church, and how the Kutsmow regime in the Zagreb cinema was judged, including our colleague, Andrija Skull. But that's where I'm going. Today our faction will definitely support this. But I would like to remind you of the words of Oksana Zabrzeczko, our beautiful Ukrainian writer, that today the orange authorities, including myself, I consider myself to be a part of the Orange Revolution, have remained in orange monosteries, under which last century's dirty underwear. That is to say, and I would like to hear this from the government, which is meant to require a state strategy for the spiritual restoration of Ukraine. It's a nation's strategy, not the cracking of holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u87	George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u88	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind the project's authors that the 2006 budget seems to provide 40 million for the construction of a transport highway across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. The authors suggest re-encouraging ecological, sanitary and hygienic expertise, which puts the cross on this building. I'd like one of them to go and live in Zaporozhye without these bridges. And secondly, paragraph 5.2 here is proposed in the Gonchari-Kojumjaka festivities to create the Kiivska Rus National Park. I don't know if the authors know that there's been an elite housing building there for the fourth year, about a few dozen U.S. About a square meter? So, if you create this park, what do you call it, the "Dwarf's Nest"?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I am now voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Information Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the status and prospects for the preservation of the cultural heritage of Ukraine, registration number 8671. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:55:10]] For 131 The decision is not taken. I think, come on, I'd like to ask a committee to take into account the thoughts that have been expressed here, to make some clarifications, to work out so that we can adopt a draft decision. The Draft Ordinance on the Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on Cooperation between Ukraine and Germany is under review. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, Head of the Committee on European Integration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, had a rather intense interparliamentary relationship between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Bundestag of Germany last year. At first, in Berlin, German parliamentarians spent days in Ukraine with our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. At the end of last year, there were similar hearings, parliamentary hearings on Ukraine’s and Germany’s cooperation issues. Parliamentary hearings were attended by both national deputies and politicians, heads of civil organizations in Ukraine, Germany, diplomats. And similar hearings aroused great interest in Ukrainian society. And the Committee on European Integration received quite a lot of references from local self - government authorities, which have a partnership between cities, territories of Ukraine and Germany, from host entities with commercial relations, from representatives of the diaspora of Ukraine and Germany. The importance of this action was that it was known that elections had taken place in Germany and that the hearings had taken place just after the elections, and Germany’s new leadership was interested in a more intense relationship with Ukraine. The project that you are offered provides virtually all the questions raised during parliamentary hearings. And this is about education, education, exchange of students and economics, environmental issues, access to the Ukrainian economy, cultural and artistic issues, and many others. Thus, the drafters of the bill, the representatives of various political groups and parties, as well as the leaders of the inter-parliamentary group of Ukraine, Germany have sought to generalise those proposals and propose to you a draft decision on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's cooperation issues, Germany proposes to consider and approve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-12-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, if there are no other warnings and objections, I am voting on the committee's proposal. On the adoption of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on cooperation between Ukraine and Germany. Registration number 8613. Please vote. [[17:58:39]] For 223 Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, this is no longer about Ukraine, but it is about the cooperation of some of the issues relating to the parliamentary relationship between Ukraine and Germany. I'm voting for a return to the draft ruling. Registration number 8613. Please vote. [[17:59:13]] For 272 We're back to the debate. I am voting on the approval of the draft decree as a decree, “On the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on Ukraine and Germany’s cooperation”. Registration number 8616. Please vote. [[17:59:41]] For 288 I'll take the order. The draft Decision on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of the population of Ukraine for infectious diseases and measures to reduce them is under consideration. Registration number 8672. Dear colleagues, remember, on Tuesday we reviewed this document, made decisions regarding the evaluation of the activities in this regard of the Cabinet of Ministers, and worked on your comments. We have every reason to put this project to a vote. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information by the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of the Ukrainian population's disease and measures to reduce it. For adoption as a whole as a decree, registration number 8672, please vote. As a basis, we accepted Tuesday. In general, we have to. There's a vote coming. [[18:00:52]] For 227 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow we continue to work in plenary mode on Friday at 10 a.m. The information, the honourable colleagues, it is. I'm going to have it checked out by the Science and Law Department, and we're going to make it public tomorrow, because it's from the committee. I can multiply it for you and pass it on to you right now, but I'd like our lawyers to look at this document. Come in, I'll give you a copy. Okay.
