ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:02:14]] There were 424 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the issues that have been set before the formation of the personal composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who do we have on this? Ladies and gentlemen, since we have, as you know, decided to move tomorrow the matter of the Supreme Council Committee and the subject of their knowledge, we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda – the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you to sign up for the deputies in the procedure. Let me explain. Yes, 42 national deputies were registered. Let's take five minutes to discuss this with the procedure. Let's do 10. Okay. There's an offer of 10, let's say 10. Yes, we have the first member of the Smiths. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u2	Garbage, Party of Regions. Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u3	Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I congratulate the country and all of us on a wise and correct decision, but this decision must be brought to a logical conclusion. And I put forward a draft regulation stating that today it is proposed to continue the work of the Supreme Council until we elect a President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u5	Yes. Indeed, such a project is registered under No. 1113, registered today. I think we'll get back to him after we get through the procedure. Yes, next Grigorovitch, National Deputy Grigorovitch Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u6	It's good, it's important not to buy. Please pass the word to Roman Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u7	Please include the Immortal MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u8	Immortal, “Our Ukraine”. Dear John Sidorovich, distinguished colleagues! I've already spoken on the Conciliation Council about the fact that we have one very important problem: this is voting, on the one hand, for the Head of the Supreme Council as the majority representative. On the other hand, in the vote of the deputy as a minority representative, which was agreed upon and discussed today by Julia Volodymyrna, Victor Fedorovich. So our proposal is, to vote, to put the Head away, the First Deputy, and the Deputy, and to vote together, because there is no guarantee that there will be a chosen intercessor. Therefore, in accordance with article 70, paragraph 8 is to be put to the vote by the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u9	Right. National Deputy Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Zaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u11	Give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u12	Dear John Sidorovich, I understand that we have moved on to a matter of order in the day with regard to the election of the Head of the Supreme Council. But I'd like to ask you to explain from the provisional precedent how we've skipped a question that hasn't been exhausted yet, it's about defining a list of committees and objects of their knowledge. I would like to remind you that, regardless of the fact that the relevant rulings in the plural have not obtained the appropriate number of votes, this does not mean that the issue is exhausted, and the Rules have the only option to move on to the next item of the agenda, which requires a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, in that case, since you've already crossed over, I've got you. I ask you if there is such a determination, because we need to make a decision to move on to another issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u13	I explain, Roman Mikhailovich. You know, we've considered this issue three times in the session room, and you know that this question was being considered at the Conciliation Council today. And on this Conciliation Council, a conclusion was reached, and this was reported in the session hall that the issue was being referred to tomorrow at the agreement of all five factions. Of course, I get it. Yes. Let's move on. Deputy Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u15	Please. The word of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, we are really both in the coalition agreement of our forces, and in the treaty with the opposition, we have agreed that the position of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council is given to the opposition forces. And it would be absolutely logical for us to stand in harmony, because we also need 226 votes to vote as a opposing candidate. We are absolutely demonstrating our good will in order to support a candidate from the opposition. And I think that if we're going to be able to demonstrate this in practice, we need to vote on the Chief of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, and the Deputy. Vote by secret ballot, ballots. And that way it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u17	I got it. Yes. Deputy School Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u18	Thank you. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to support Julia Volodymyrna in that when we talk about the logic of events, these events should take place logically. When we vote in this room separately, it doesn't mean trust or mistrust, we understand everything perfectly and with all confidence, and we parliamentarians are all Ukrainian, we have to demonstrate the same good will. I mean, I think that to vote for everyone, for everyone at the same time, for the Head of the Supreme Council, for the deputy and for the First Deputy. And I liked the proposal from the Party of Regions, and they said that until we're done, we're not going to break up. I understand that they've learned to work here all day long, it's a good science for opposition. So I propose to vote with a package until we elect the Chief of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, means the second one, or the vote at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u19	Yes. Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I would very much like us to stop in our passions and really understand that, well, today is a beautiful day, the work of the Supreme Council has resumed, and I would like to ask our colleagues in Parliament and the Regions just to be very careful about going out of hunger, because this is a process that is much more difficult than hunger itself. But I'm sure. And I would like very much to support my colleague at the School to continue to the triumphant end of the day. But, my dear Andrew, such decisions are made only in the morning according to our Rules. Sadly, they are impossible. I want to address the opposition, the powerful faction of the “Regions”. You have to understand for yourself. We gave you everything we could but the soul, of course. Because of this, you will never be able to vote if you do not agree to this proposal, you will never vote for your deputy. Let's take this and put it to a vote now, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u21	Yes, National Deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u22	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions First. The faction supports our colleague Alexander Pecklesenko's proposal for Decree No. 1113 on work until we get some results. The other one. Dear colleagues from the coalition! We don't even have a shred of mistrust in your faction. But I point out to you that behind the new proposal of the new package lies the mere wickedness. We've just unlocked the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And everyone here seemed to have had some pleasure, including our voters. So this proposal for a new package is considered openly provocative. And another observation about toothpicking, which occasionally allows the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. But you didn't give us anything. We didn't ask you to do anything. As for the soul, leave your black sales with you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, I call for all parties and all factions and all national MPs to be correct. This is Deputy Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u24	Please pass the word to Azarov Nikolai Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u25	Please include the deputy of Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u26	Dear Ivan Sidorovic, distinguished Presidency, distinguished people's deputies. I would like to remind Julia Vladimirovne and the other members of the Conciliation Commission, as well as the parties to the factions that participated in the establishment of the agreement on the unlocking of the Supreme Council, of the conditions that we have recorded there, in particular, that we have provided for a separate vote on the President of the Supreme Council and on the Deputy, and the Deputy, and the First Deputy, to open these pages, to refresh your memory and to convince you that we have already agreed on this and that we should not withdraw from the agreement. Likewise, I recall that yesterday evening and this morning we also agreed on the structure of the Supreme Council, but this did not prevent us from moving away from these arrangements. So let us now abide by these arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u27	The word has been given by the national deputy Chubarov Reft Abdurahmanovich, and we will conclude with this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u28	Thank you very much. I would also like to draw the attention of the members of the temporary working Bureau and all of my colleagues to the fact that the Rules really require us to choose the Head only after the matter of the list of committees has been resolved. So solving the question and considering the issue are very different things. In fact, we have discussed the matter several times about the list of committees, but we have not been able to make a decision. We can move on to the election of the Supreme Council, but in order to do so, we still need to make a separate decision about what we are going to do before the election of the Supreme Council. The Committee's decision to list is one point. And secondly, I'd like you to know here that there's such applause about the Batch Voting on the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the Rules don't deny that there's an appropriate norm, and we could do it in order to solve this issue positively, and for the effectiveness of the Bull for the first time, we could do it in a packet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u29	Yes, the discussion of the procedure is over. There were various proposals today, the proposals were, first, about the continuation of the evening plenary session before the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is regulation number 1113, it's registered, it's, in fact, one regulatory moment. Such a decision should be made in the morning. But since we were in the morning, you know, working in what mode, I think it's perfectly normal today to put this question to a vote and resolve it as decided by the session room. I think the motivation that we should be working today is right. I'm asking you to proceed with the procedure, please, Deputy School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u30	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. To do so, first of all, if we want to adhere to the rules and letters of the Rules, we must first vote on the ad hoc regulation, or vote in favour of considering the issue outside the Rules, only then can we vote in favour of the regulation. No, it's about the Rules. Therefore, according to the Rules, it is necessary to vote first on the ad hoc vote, i.e. by way of derogation from the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u31	Is there anyone else? None. Okay. Okay. Let us then vote on the ad hoc procedure on this issue. I'll put it to a vote. Wait a minute. Come on, don't make any noise. I would like to ask: “The MPs have been given this draft ruling?” Not handed out, is it? Right. I got it. Okay. I'm taking the liberty of taking the liberty, although I understand here, some may also declare a violation of the Rules, but we've already had a precedent. I put to the vote an order to continue the evening plenary session before the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:19:12]] For 233 The factions, please. 233 votes in favour. Factions: Region Party - 184, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Socialist Party - 28, Communists - 21. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to the nomination procedure for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From the procedure? Please. I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. Now, now, now. Now we're going to sign up, and then we're going to put it in. Yes, 75 national deputies were registered. We're going to take 15 minutes to get the move on. Yeah? 15 minutes. I think that's enough to put it out. As long as the people's deputies are thinking about who they're putting to the vote, I'm putting to the vote the proposal here that has been put to the full vote for the head of the Supreme Council, the first deputy and deputy. Please turn it on. Please vote. [[16:21:46]] For 204 Yes, please explain the factions. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 127, “Our Ukraine” – 76, Socialist Party – 1, Communists – 0. Yes, I would like the National Deputies to prepare for the nominations for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The word is given to the member of Stasov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u32	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko has always adhered to the requirements it signs, and it adheres to the documents it initials. Under the agreement we have signed, the right to appoint the Head of the Supreme Council belongs to the faction “Our Ukraine”. We support any candidate they put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u34	From the faction “Our Ukraine” the word is given by the national deputy Strtović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u35	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine”. Dear John Sidorovich, you violated the Rules without passing a draft order on the hands of the deputies. I want to say that the Supreme Administrative Court is now accepting such cases, and they may be cancelled. Now, please pass the word to Peter Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u36	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u37	Dear friends, I'm sure a coalition agreement is now being tested. They are being tested by the political forces who have signed under a coalition agreement. I'm sure this is a moment of truth for both the fate of Ukraine and for democracy of Ukraine and for the fate of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u38	Yes, the word has the national deputy Koval, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u39	Dear John Sidorovich, distinguished national deputies, according to the agreements that exist in the coalition, so far the existing de jure on paper, but existing, I propose to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the faction “Our Ukraine” of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u40	The first candidature is named. The word is given by Deputy Sulkovsky, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u41	I'd like to give Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u42	Please include Deputy Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u43	Dear national MPs, our constituents! The faction of the Party of the Regions is nominated as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u44	National MP Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u45	I reaffirm once again the position of the Party of the Regions, the Party of the Regions, on the appointment of Speaker of Parliament, Azarov Nikolai Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u46	The people's deputy Knjazevich Ruslan Petrovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u47	Thank you. I have, as far as I can see, in order for us to begin the procedure for organising a vote for the Supreme Council head, to select him more precisely, we need to verify the legitimacy of the body that is going to conduct such a vote, namely the reckoning commission. In accordance with the rules of procedure, this body should be made public and open at the meeting to select the head, deputy and secretary. At least I don't know about such a meeting, at least because I didn't take part in it, but I'd be happy to, because, according to the rules, it's the calculus commission that should check the presence of the people's deputies in the plenary before voting. Apparently, not all the national MPs are in the hall right now. In this regard, I have asked myself: ‘ Did a formal counting commission start work, or did she hold her meeting? If not, when will it be held? And can we share in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u48	Right. The word is given by the national deputy Herman Hanna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u49	Hanna Herman, Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, dear voters, we are now experiencing, indeed, a moment of consolidation of democracy in Ukraine. And we all thank the people very much for their support. I support Mikola Janović Azarov's candidacy as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u50	I see. School of Andriy Vasilovich, National Deputy, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u51	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u52	Please include Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! With the opportunity to speak, I would like to express my objection to the Chairman who is in charge of the meeting today, because, in fact, by violating the Rules, by violating the procedure for the continuation of the meeting, which is possible only in the morning without a vote of ad hoc, we are now questioning with you the election of any person to the post of Head of the Supreme Council. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order for us to have a legitimate Head of the Supreme Council and have no reason to deny him, I propose that we return to the procedure provided for in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u54	I see, Alexander Valentine's Day. I think we'll get back to that when we get out of here. The next is the national deputy of Prokopovic, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u55	Prokopovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please pass the word to Mrs. Grigorovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u56	Please turn on Lily's microphone, Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u57	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! What's going on in the hall today? In fact, it can be illustrated by the words “that the mornings fought back yesterday and the day before, after lunch, they struggled.” They fought for compliance with the Rules, for constitutionality, for legitimacy, and began the procedure for electing the Supreme Council head out of illegal norms. I say this with concern because many people have just begun to starve today. And now, if we're serious, of course, we support Peter Dustenk's candidacy from our bloc and our coalition. But today, all of us together, I appeal again to the close eye of our electorate, who collectively cast most votes for the democratic coalition, not the triumph of democracy, but the test of the integrity of democracy. We're through.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u58	Thank you. National Deputy Korge, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u59	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u60	Yes, please include Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u61	Thank you. I would like to emphasize first, if we are already talking about the Rules, because we have posted posters here that we will not, we will not stand up for the Constitution and the Rules, that is, according to the Rules, an ad hoc rule has been voted on, that is, we have voted to vote in favour of the extension of the session. So at least here, if you're already messing around, if you're already going to those huts, you're going to have to go at least if you can't see what you're doing. So at least if you want to continue the session, you have to vote again to do it all over again. Well, that's what the Rules require. You can now even vote cards for Ukraine to cease to exist as a state, but that will not work. So I would like to stress, please, Mr. Chairman, that we should put this to the vote and vote again. You do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u62	Thank you for the roadside literacy lesson. Yes, Deputy Bondarenko, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u63	Please give the floor to Sulkovsky Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u64	Turn on Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down. Let's proceed with the procedure that we just voted for. Therefore, the Ukrainian people are tired and are waiting for us to take concrete steps. Let's take this step now, let's take the head of the Supreme Council, Mikola Janovich Azarov. This is a person who knows the whole world as a financier, an economist who, in fact, is a politician who is loved by the entire Ukrainian people. And he needs to be trusted that only under his leadership will there be stability, order, and a better future for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u66	He has the word, he has the word of Deputy Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, the faction of the “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u67	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich! Dear John Sidorovich, the Rules of the Supreme Council are the normative act to be followed. In view of the fact that the question of the continuation of the meeting of the Supreme Council, the draft Order was not included in the agenda, the issue was not discussed or considered, the decision on this point is not entirely valid, so all other decisions that will be taken after the discussion will also not be entirely legitimate, I suggest that we return to the procedure provided for in the Rules, and only in this case will we be able to make a normal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u68	I see. National Deputy Kravtsov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u69	I'd like a word with Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u70	Please include Deputy Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! We have like that song: our song is good first. As soon as it's going your way, we've got it right, we're fine. As soon as something doesn't fit in with your plans, and we suggest it, you immediately remember any rules and any hooks. We are resolving all matters here today in the sessional room and only by voting. And if we have a majority "for" on the board, then we will do as the majority wants, and most have been determined, we will not yet elect the President of the Supreme Council. I think and I'm sure it'll be Nikolai Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u72	The word of Deputy Voropeyev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Azar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u74	Please include Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Once again, there is no violation of the Rules. I am speaking to Mr. Sass, who was in my opinion the Rules and must know very well. Today's agenda is approved, more so today on the Conciliation Commission, when Viktor Fedorovic asked his colleagues: "So, because we are not ready for a ruling on the list of committees, shall we not approve the Chairman?"!" They all said unanimously, “We will approve the President”. We have unlocked the work and will elect the President of the Supreme Council. So the question is, what is the violation of the rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u76	Biba National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u77	Deputy Biba, faction of Party regions. I would like to give the floor to Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u78	Please include MP Pulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u79	National Deputy of Ukraine, Equality. Dear National Deputies! I think we need to conclude the debate, give candidates to the Supreme Council Head the opportunity to speak with our program and start the discussion. Once again, I call upon all the Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of political power, and it will be the right choice if we focus and choose in an hour the Head of the Supreme Council, the courageous, business politician – Mikola Janović Azarov. And we wish him health, happiness, and success in this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u80	National Deputy Piscoon Svetoslav Mikhailovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u81	My fellow Members, for example, I am very pleased to note that we have been running for more than 20 years, working as a national deputy, working as the head of the Budget Committee, working as the first vice-premier, working in large positions in the state of Ukraine, has brought great benefits to this state. This is a wise decision. Let's support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u82	Thank you. The National Deputy Bondarczuk, a faction of socialists, gives me the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u83	I am proposing on my own behalf and on behalf of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Baranovsky, who also made such a request, to appoint Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u84	So we've completed 15 minutes of nominations we've completed. But perhaps there are other suggestions? I'm talking about candidates. You don't? None. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Vladimir Alexandrovich, do you have a new candidacy? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. If everything has gone so well, let me propose another candidate for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u86	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I claim official self-refoulement. Yeah, no more? So we have to list the risk under three candidates, these are the candidates for Dusty Peter Alexiyovich, Azarov Mikola Janović and Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich. Who for putting the risk under these three candidatures and submitting these candidatures to the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine please vote? [[16:40:57]] For 252 Factions please: The Party of Regions – 184, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 19, The Socialist Party of Ukraine – 30, the Communists – 19. Yes. I want to go back to the question of ad hoc, because during the discussion on the nomination of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposals were made that the procedure should still be voted on. I ask you to vote, however, as a confirmation of the continuation of our work until the end of the vote, please vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure so that we can work today before the election of the Supreme Council. On the contrary. [[16:42:17]] For 237 The factions, please. So 186 – Party of Regions, 0 – Block of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, Socialist Party – 30, Communists – 21. So, I mean, there's a difference here, so there's a notice. Thus, we have confirmed our right to work today before the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes. Dear colleagues, we can come with you today to discuss the nominations that have been put forward. I propose this procedure. A candidate for the presidency of the Supreme Council to give how much? Five minutes or ten minutes? How much? Twenty minutes. And to discuss how much? I get it, I get it. So this is the procedure: we give every candidate to the head of the Supreme Council 20 minutes and we give everyone an hour to discuss. That's according to the Rules, yes. And I would very much like the Secretariat to distribute the necessary documents by the candidates in, as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as long as we have a discussion. The first one is the candidate for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. The word has the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Poshenko Petr Alexiyovich. 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u87	Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I was very excited and prepared for this historic, no exaggeration, performance. I'm sure that right now, and right now, in this room, the future of our country is being resolved. On June 22, a coalition agreement was signed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under this coalition agreement are the signatures of 239 national deputies. This coalition agreement contains hundreds of pages and a month of hard work by representatives of the three political powers, who publicly in front of the entire country have taken over, making a commitment to Ukraine’s fate. At 16,46, today, no signature of this coalition agreement has been revoked. This coalition agreement provides for clear political, not private, or commercial, obligations of each national MP to vote, to follow procedures, and to be politically responsible for fulfilling their obligations. And right now in this room, this coalition agreement is going through the first test. Representatives of the Coalition faction claim that the voting and discussion of the Supreme Council's candidature is now in violation of the Rules. I want to add that this is happening in violation of the coalition agreement, because two candidates have been nominated from the political forces of the coalition agreement. I'm not going to use 20 minutes and I'm not going to read or publish the text of my speech. I'm sure I'll be able to do it later. I call from this rostrum, I address you directly, Mr. Alexandre Alexander Frost, to follow my example and to withdraw my election from the Supreme Council. Allowing the Party of Regions and Mikola Janovich Azarov to pass this test, to see how many votes will be cast and only then to carry out a coalition, a coalition agreement, in the form of commitments that we made not only in this room in front of each other, but before the Ukrainian people, then to vote effectively on the Supreme Council of Coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u88	I call for good behavior. Let's not make any noise. From the procedure after we have heard the presentations of the candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council. He has a candidate as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Presidium! Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! In this room, this part, which claims to be a democratic coalition, illustrates examples of intolerance, examples of what it wants to build in our country. If you could see their faces - faces of hatred, malice, you would be horrified. I urge you, on the contrary, to reflect on the challenges facing our country, and it is the awareness of the responsibility of this moment that has led me, in particular, to come to this rostrum. Ukraine has not only threats and risks. There are promising prospects for our country, and there is an opportunity to finally enter the European path of development.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u90	Mikola Janovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, take your seats. On both sides. Please, take your seats! Mikola Janović, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u91	But in order to take a decent place in the European family of peoples, we must take a difficult path and, above all, this path to reconciliation, mutual understanding, compromise, the ability to hear each other, regardless of the language your political opponent speaks. We must come to an understanding of the simple and absolutely obvious fact that we are all different in our views and beliefs, but that can be either the source and cause of discord, discord and, ultimately, the loss of our country or, in contrast, the tremendous increase in our powers and capabilities, our intellectual abilities and the unprecedented upheaval in economic and social development. The ability to find compromises is an important quality of policy. Whoever has been elected to the presidency of the Supreme Council will be its primary responsibility — to hear all parties, to hear all factions and to find the best way to meet the challenges facing our country. I am very pleased that this morning we have taken the first step towards finding a compromise and many leaders here have convinced us that they are ready to work with us to create a balanced system of power and opposition. However, as soon as the events began to develop in the wrong scenario that they had set for the country, the hysteria immediately went away. Calm down! Here we are just starting to work with you, and we have a very long and difficult road to go. What are the problems and what are the main areas of the work of the Supreme Council sufficiently clearly and clearly before us now? This is primarily the improvement of Ukraine's constitutional system. No one's secret that our Constitution is at odds. There is no secret that our legislation is contradictory. Many laws have been written in a vague and vague manner, allowing for ambiguous interpretations. Many laws do not conform to our Constitution, and many provisions of the Constitution have not been continued in our legislation. In particular, a few words are meant to refer to our normative framework. Our regulatory framework is the object of continuous improvement and the cause of many of the difficulties facing our business, so we are responsible for our Constitution and our legislation enabling us to create our country's modern market infrastructure and to ensure the free development of business in our country. An important part of our work is the improvement of legislation that ensures an effective governance system for the country at both the central and local levels. Clearly, the constitutional reform that we have begun has led to a certain imbalance for colleagues. So if we don't put this problem ahead of us and solve it in the next year or two, we're just going to tighten this imbalance. We need two or three years to implement the reform of Ukraine's administrative and territorial system. We must complete in our office the reform of the country's judicial system. We must reform our law enforcement agencies, which must indeed protect the rights of our citizens rather than be a punitive system over our people and our business. We must establish a serious legislative framework, and the opposition must work very hard to finally stop fighting corruption from being a slogan, and an honest official must become synonymous with public authority. We must do much to create a civil society that has been declared in all our party programmes, and we now have an opportunity with you to establish the legislative framework of this civil society over the past few years. I cannot help but say that the Supreme Council is responsible for establishing an optimum external economic course. In this regard, in recent years, our country has allowed for very serious shortcomings, and we need to implement or lay the foundations of balanced foreign policy. Finally, the last, and by its significance, probably the most important. Those five years that we have to live together must lay the foundation for the transition to a technological breakthrough, to an knowledge economy. We don't just have to declare it in our programmes, in our intentions. We must work hard every day to create such an atmosphere in the country that would facilitate the gradual withdrawal of our science, our technology, our technology from a state of underdevelopment into the state of modern technologies of the twenty-first century. If we do not create such an economy, Ukraine will have no future and no future for our citizens. Public, enormous challenges lie before the Supreme Council. I am very grateful to our colleagues on the Party of the Regions for this nomination. And I see in this room many worthy candidates who are able to lead our Parliament on the course that I have just outlined. I think that this course, if our colleagues think about it, is certainly in line with what we need to do. I am therefore deeply convinced that all these difficult tasks will be decided by our Supreme Council and that we are on the right track with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u92	Mikola Janovich, I think you saved about nine minutes, didn't you? Let's take this time to answer the questions. Please sign up. People's Deputy Skudar, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u93	Dear Nikolai Janovich! We will certainly support your candidacy, and your work as First Vice Prime Minister has shown that you are able to deal with the economies of States. Well, I won't talk about it again. You know that our country's industry suffered a devastating blow a year and a half ago because all the motivational mechanisms for the economic development of the State have been eliminated and the industry has drastically reduced its volume and we have begun to stagnate. The negative balance of payments in trade with other countries exceeded $2 billion. I would like you to answer this question: Will you support the motivational mechanisms associated with the establishment of priority development zones and free economic zones in order to develop our country's economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u94	Thank you for asking. Clearly, all that will contribute to the technological breakthrough of our country, namely, the establishment of priority development zones, technology parks and other instruments for the introduction of modern technologies, should not only be supported by our Supreme Council and implemented, implemented by our Government, but laws must be adopted to ensure the stability of such support over a long period of at least 20-25 years. Only with such strong guarantees can we expect serious investment to come into such a complex capital-intensive area as high-tech technology today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u95	Yes, Deputy Smituch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u96	Dear Nikolai Janovich, as a person who came to Parliament for the first time in business, I would like to ask you a question that concerns, I think, many businessmen in the country. How do we create business conditions so that Ukraine's economy is not in the shadows, but, at least, 90% legal in Ukraine? And what should Parliament do first?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u97	Well, the less we get involved in business, the better. The more stable our legislation is and the less we change it, the better. The less regulatory acts we take, the better. If we are serious, not in words, but in fact, in fighting corruption, we will cancel the so-called so-called corruption tax, or at least reduce the so-called corruption tax. If we reduce tax pressure, we will create normal conditions for the development of our business. I think that all the possibilities for getting out are 12-15, or maybe higher, percent of the growth rate of our gross domestic product is still there. When I talk about risks, about challenges, I mean those serious tests that we can go through, but, and in doing so, in our optimism, Ukraine has tremendous opportunities for economic growth, and these opportunities are in fact that, despite the adverse conditions, our business has been able to achieve such a high rate of development. I therefore think that the policy set out in the Party of the Regions'economic development strategy will create an enabling environment for business development.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u98	National MP Šibko Vitali Jakovic, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u99	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Quickly, a faction of socialists. Dear Mikola Janovich! I'd like to hear more from you about your vision of further development of political reform. First. The organizational measures that need to be applied today to ensure that the first part of the political reform, which is already the norm of the Constitution, is implemented and that the second part of the Constitution, which has just been voted, is in the Constitutional Court, which you see as the role of the local self-government authorities, which depends on the central council. Is there any possibility today that these local self-government bodies will develop more autonomously and how you will try if you do it through Parliament as Head of the Supreme Council for this principle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u100	Obviously, I spoke about this in my statement that the deepening of constitutional reform and its logical completion are our main task together. We cannot stop halfway on the halfway road that we took in December 2004 we need to logically complete this reform. That is, first and foremost to balance relations in the triangle of power – the President, the Parliament and the Government. It is clear that several fundamental basic laws must be adopted to normalize this balance of power. If we do not do so, we will constantly stumble over the contradictions that are now taking place between this powerful triangle. Second. The continuation of constitutional reform is clearly seen in the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government and the provision of local councils with far greater powers. Working in the Government, I found that there was an unduly high concentration of authority and lack of regional capacity for local councils to deal with a significant number of tasks on the ground. Therefore, the decentralization of power and the central government's focus on indeed strategic development challenges will allow the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament to truly work for the country's strategic development. At the same time, by intensifying efforts to strengthen or, more precisely, to promote the well-being of our people on the ground. Therefore, it is clear to me that we must work consistently in this direction, the proposal of the Party of the Regions was to establish a specialized committee in the Supreme Council to undertake constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u101	Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna, the People’s Deputy of the Party of the Regions, has the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u102	Dear Nikolai Janović, a year and a half, you know, Ukrainian privatization issues are almost frozen. The privatization of strategic sites, monopolies and natural monopolies is very important. You know, since 2000, the country has been living under a privatization programme since 2000, we have not changed legislation. Tell me, please, how do you feel about these processes, how do you see these problems being resolved in the future? And how do you feel about the fact that we really need the State Property Fund Act, it's a very important bill? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u103	Of course, such a law is necessary. With regard to privatization, we have always considered privatization not as an end in itself, not as a report to someone, of the percentage of privatized enterprises. Above all, implementation of strategic investment plans in our enterprises. It must be acknowledged that, unfortunately, neither with us nor after us, privatization was not an instrument for investment development. Therefore, if you and I are able to establish a legislative framework that will allow, by leaving the State in hand, the control of strategically important enterprises and the operational management of the part, part and part of corporate rights that belongs to the State of privatized enterprises, we will be able to meet this challenge. Here's a quick answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u104	Thank you, Mikola Janović, the time taken to answer the question is over. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandr Alexandrovich, Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u105	Deputies! And those who watch or listen to us. I'd like to ask you not to scream "Damn," not a word, because you don't know what I'm going to say, first. And secondly, I wouldn't want a debate in Parliament ever to be resolved by means of megaphones, whistles, killing the ability of someone on the stand to say it -- it doesn't beautify anyone. And let's get past this. Now. Today, Peter Alexiyovich, said about the signing of the Agreement, I sincerely said yes, I signed this agreement with the hope that the coalition would work and work with confidence. And for three weeks now, in conversations with the President, with the coalition subjects, I've been talking about moving away from the structure that leads to the collapse of the coalition with the known consequences. I have a lot of arguments on this point, I'm not going to use them, I'm only using one argument. Today, all of society remembers the good fall of September last year, and you know what this was about? And it was linked to what figures? So this is not exactly what I have here, it's not that I'm assuming, it's even evidence that I'm not going to use here to say that in higher positions in Ukraine. Finding charismatic people such as Peter Alexiyovich and Julia Volodymyryn will certainly lead to a grumbling mixture. I'm begging you, you don't have to. And that's going to mean the collapse of the coalition in a few months, with all the consequences that come out of it. How technology for this, which technology is foreseen, can talk a lot, but I'm asking you, I'm going to say what I hope I want to say anyway. So this is about, we signed a deal, but there's another deal on my desk, initialled by two factions in the number of deputies, more than 270. And it would have been signed and it would probably be logical, you know, we would have calmly gone into opposition and we would know that this would continue, because in the end, we would have to solve at least one of the important issues that matured in Ukraine today, artificially matured during the presidential and present - day parliamentary campaign, when Ukraine was deliberately split in half over Dniper to prove its political prospects instead of uniting society. So I repeat, we have to stick to the agreement, and I have talked to Peter Alexiyovich and the faction representatives so many times today, and you have many deserving people. I guarantee you that 33 members of our faction will vote. But the whole point is that the structure that I'm talking about is obviously planned from the beginning. I don't know who she's planning, I don't want to make any assumptions about this, it's going to be a catastrophe, a repetition of everything that's happened, only with worse consequences. There was a much more difficult situation today. And so it turns out that this is not so much about Peter Alexiyovich as it is about the likely Prime Minister. So I can say about, I haven't finished yet. So, I still want to talk about how to do how to organize the work of the Supreme Council, I think a lot of you or most of you have no doubt that I know. I think it would be the greatest happiness for the Head of Parliament to have these people sitting on different sides five years from now, and the population to say a good word about them. Because what it takes to develop today for society to solve the colossal problems for Ukraine is that there is such a sequence, it is necessary to complete political reform first, to allow the authorities of self-government in places to solve the issues and problems that concern people today, to restore the system of legislative work, not work on the lobbyist principle, here in the Supreme Council we have seen it happen more than once. A number of issues related to local self - government standards must be addressed, such as tax reform, reform of the budgetary system, reform of the local self - government system, new functions of local government administrations, and so forth. We're in an agreement that, by the way, the text is completely one thing that some have signed, that others are predicting a tremendously serious work on Earth legislation. If I understand a little bit about this thing, I want to say that it's about 20 laws that have to be passed so that in the end people living in the village don't feel abandoned and forgotten and they don't sleep there, they don't run out of the village, and they're looking for a place to save themselves. We need to create legislative frameworks to solve these problems. I can say a lot more because our party's election program, because the content of the coalition agreement, which our representatives have been working on for several months, answers the question of what choice for Ukraine we see, of course, is a European choice with one particular feature, we are not expected anywhere in Europe or anywhere else, we must build Europe ourselves. If we can do that, if we can consolidate Parliament and society's efforts, it'll happen, if we don't, it'll be talk about good fortune, about perspective and everything else, about choice and so on, but there won't be any sense of it. And finally, constitutionally, the election of the Head of the Supreme Council is a matter for Parliament. Under the same constitutional rule, the election of the Prime Minister is a matter of coalition. So you don't have to mix with each other. That's the first one. And secondly, and secondly, I'll explain again. I'm not going to film my candidacy because I know that my faction is going to vote for me. Which means he won't vote for anyone else. So please be patient. If you have questions for me, I will be happy to answer them. But once again, make your own choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u106	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. You have 13 minutes left to answer. Please sign up for a question to the reporter, who is the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The word is composed of the deputy Radovets, the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u107	Radar. Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u108	Please turn on Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the fact is that the deputy Radovets, he's sitting at the end of the hall, he's seen that he's asking for the words of Oleg Belarus, I'm asking him to give him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u110	Please turn on Oleg Grigorovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u111	Thank you, Alexander. Alexander Alexander, I have a very simple and very important question for you. Will the members of the Socialist Party vote in favour of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko as Prime Minister, and how many votes will they give in accordance with the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u112	I answer questions like this. I'm asking for your attention. I answered this question today to Julia Volodymyrny at the three factions’ meeting. I guarantee thirty-two and a half votes for her candidacy, of course, if the coalition exists, and the head of Parliament will be of the coalition. Because under other conditions, the configuration will change. This should be thought of, Peter Alexiovich made a clear statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u113	Yes, the People's Deputy Dry faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u114	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you know what you are rightly called, and you have already entered the new history of our country as one of the creators of the Constitution of Ukraine. You were the most consistent politician in the previous campaign to implement the tasks of political reform, by the way, unlike your current coalition associates who were then mad, smashing microphones and throwing garbage at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please tell us that you see the potential and resources of today's Supreme Council of Ukraine on the way to further improving political reform and the political reform of our society. That's the first question. And the second question. Alexandre Alexandrovich, an extremely difficult situation in the economy. The tremendously difficult consequences of a pogrom that has been caused by unprofessional activity. Would you please state your position on the protection of a domestic manufacturer? This problem, perhaps the number one issue of activity and the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, irrespective of color. Thank you. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u115	I'll answer that. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I didn't see anyone throw garbage here. Fucked up or something. There was ordinary work in Parliament. The discussions were sharp, they were. It was sometimes voted in different ways, but all of this within the framework of diplomatic ethics or parliamentary ethics, I didn't see anything else. It's about polytreform. I am deeply convinced that for many years from my life and the position of the faction, the party is committed to carrying out a polytreform, a struggle against authoritarianism. I can talk about it in stages, but people saw it because it was all in front of their eyes. If we make polytreform harmonious, change in center and change in local self-governance, we will never achieve any democracy or positive changes in the economy, including. And I'm not talking about the social sphere anymore, the spiritual sphere or anything like that. A person should feel that he is worthy of something, considered to be local authorities, especially the central authorities, and listen to his position. As to the next question. You know, at the last meeting of the Supreme Council, we had a hard time discussing the protection of the manufacturer, especially when signing a set of WTO laws and joining a world trade organization. I remain convinced that it is necessary to join the World Trade Organization, but it is also essential to protect opportunities for our manufacturer. So you have to think, you have to stand up for every position, do it the way the Russians fight, defend their priorities, fight the Turks, make us export the metal without any restrictions, and so on, and thus block the signing of the relevant protocols. So let us consider each particular issue as appropriate. And what I'm saying is that our election party has developed a specific program for the industrial rebirth of Ukraine. I would like the industries that are in your faction, just like in our own, as in others, to take on this program and thereby create jobs and bring about an order in the economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u116	National Deputy Kravtsov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u117	Alexander Alexandrovich, in your statement you listed various reforms, very important reforms, but unfortunately you did not mention a word about administrative reform. A party of regions went under the slogan “Positive regions, rich Ukraine”. I would like to hear how you will support this reform and how you will support the fact that the regions of Ukraine are truly rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u118	Yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we proposed that the Party of Regions lead the Committee of Local Self-Government and Regional Development. As you suggest, we'll do it. So let's say it's all a matter of specific legislation, specific rules of law. I think there's no pattern here or, on the other hand, there's going to be decisions that need to be made for society, for the development of regions. By the way, reforming local self-government is the first step in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u119	The question is asked by the National Deputy of Vienna, Josef Vicentiyovich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u120	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Alexanderovich, I regret to say that you betrayed the party, you betrayed the millions of voters who voted for you. I want to ask one question, one question I want to ask you: how are you going to look these people in the eye, and aren't you ashamed to be applauded by the Party of Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u121	I'll answer the questions. Well, let me answer the question. Give it a good round of applause, now you'll see something else. Joseph Vicentiyovich, I understand that this is where Ivan Sidorovich made this conversation about what I had 13 minutes left to answer. I'm gonna have to answer a lot, I understand that. But believe me, I have something to say to people and maybe unlike some of those who ask questions, I've looked into people's eyes for over 2.5 grand. meetings in different formats throughout Ukraine and in 16 years. And in view of what was sad, we obviously failed to deal with the political conjuncture that arose when we entered power, to you, by the way, didn't listen then, it was a mistake — we didn't have to get into power or get out when the conflict was played out artificially to deal with specific subjects in power. It wasn't done. And that's why we reap such fruits. In terms of trust, interest, or whatever. The one who exclaims on this matter, count your party. And then you'll say what it is. In any language, the power is voted by society at about 11 to 13 percent. And the rest, it's already won by the party. So please, no reproach. One. And there's often questions, because I've been asked often, about morality, about conscience, about everything else. I have a clear conscience in front of the voters, in front of Ukraine. I understand what I'm going to do, I understand that you, Joseph Vicentiyovich, vote for me not to vote for the "Regions" and that will be enough for the result. I also understand that if there was one technologist, and I think they were among the Party of Regions, they'd think about how to vote, because Mikola Janović won't pass, even though he doesn't fully understand Ukrainian language or use Ukrainian. But it's all questions, you know, technological. Let's see what happens. In the meantime, I am not withdrawing my candidacy, and I am asking to be decided by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u122	The question is asked by the national MP Bespali Boris Jakovic, "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u123	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u124	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u125	Alexander Alexanderovich, please tell me, at least once from this rostrum honestly, as you have arranged with the “Regions” to elect you today as speaker of Parliament. And what does it cost you, or what does it cost them? That's the first question. Question two. If you are such a strong and moral politician, obviously it would not be good to use your hearings, but it would be official to take the decision of your faction and turn to our faction to consider the question of being a speaker. You didn't do anything like that, and then you're betraying really your ideals that you're saying, so today you're demonstrating who you really are, not who you think you are. And finally the third. Alexander Alexanderovich, many people believed in your morality as an honest and Ukrainian policy. Today you're wearing a pathetic politician's suit. Please don't disappoint us either. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..don't be disappointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u126	I ask you not to protest against such words. Each uses arguments as he prepares himself and his own morals. So there's no money here. I could say, say, Anatoly Sergeiovich, mentioning your biography, where you were and who you went to, where you worked or what. There's nothing to talk about. But again, so are you, and I, and others here as they are. An assessment of the people who are in power, or of the deputies being given especially for a time, and this assessment has already been made, and it will be done another. And if we are with you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, by overcoming these arguments that you are using right now, we will do better for Ukraine, people will say "thank you, well, that's what they're doing." And morals, morality, you know, we have this tradition: if a man has married five times or, for example, acquired a child somewhere on the side, then we can talk about morality, he can talk about morality; and when you stand firm, objectively. I say the same thing to your faction three weeks a day. If you don't believe me, listen to what I've done today. As you have not heard, because you are not a representative of the faction, not a representative of authority, I regret that your faction leaders have not informed you of this. If you do not believe, confirm with your colleagues. Please! Calm down, please! Calm down about morality. And from who it looks like, let's leave it to later. The time will pass, and I have not once seen it, when you say, "But you were right."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u127	The question is asked by the National MP, School Andriy Vasilovich, the faction “Blok Julia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u128	Alexandre Alexandrovich, of course, I could discuss here whether it is worth building Europe in Ukraine, because Ukraine is a European state, but it is located in European-Asian space, and we need to choose where we live, whether in Eurasia or in Europe, and apply. You can build anything here, but if it's a European state, it has to be European. And so I'd like you to just answer me, so when the Party of Regions votes for you, will you be able to act as the speaker of the Supreme Council as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u129	In view of what we voted today. [[I'm sorry, Andrew, well, I want to answer your question! Well, I didn't know, so he used to be in our faction, and now he's in yours.]] That's why I'm asking for your attention! Andrey, you know, I've had excellent grades from geography at school, as well as from other subjects. I know where we live. And I know that we don't live in Asia, and not in Europe -- we live where people are ashamed to say where we live today. I beg you, I think you understand what this is about. So let's not talk about this. By the way, in an agreement signed and signed by another faction from the Party of Regions, it's also written down, by the way, it's this model of building Europe in Ukraine, building standards of life, and democracy, and people's well-being, and so on. Then my argument, which I'm saying, is fully supported by you regarding the structure that will break the coalition. And many of our "Ukraine," of your faction, of others, realize that it is. The only thing is, it's about the morality that Anatoly Sergiyovich referred to, that I'm talking about, I'm talking about it, and you're thinking and you're silent, that's the difference. I wish we could understand that. And finally, today we voted on the election procedure. I know there's not enough votes for my candidacy. I'm looking at it all calmly. But what I want to say is that he chooses not a coalition or a faction or that he chooses Parliament. The more the secret vote, the more I know who's voting. If they choose, I will trust the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u130	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 70 of the Supreme Council Rules, are being discussed after hearing reports from candidates for the post of Supreme Council. The regulation recommends a general time to discuss candidates, determines the Supreme Council in general, but should be at least one hour, at least one hour. I think that, come on, you sign up for the discussion right now, and we're going to do the regulatory rule if speakers are enough to discuss this very difficult and very important issue for us. Please sign up for the performance. Yeah, 70 people. What is it, I don't see any records? Got it. Oh, there is. Thank you. Rules, as you know, three minutes in Parliament for speeches. The word is given to the National Deputy Artemenko Yuri Anatoliovich, “Our Ukraine”. A year. For the hour's performances, I said. Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich, you signed up for the performance. Please come to the rostrum. So, Artemenko doesn't want to perform. What about Terrence? Yes, I understand that Artemenko Yuri Anatolyevich is refusing to speak. The word has been given by the national deputy Teren, and he is given the word Artemenko. Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u131	Thank you. Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! I've known Mr. Azarov for a long time -- not one call in the Supreme Council. People who are good, to what extent should this state be despised, to what extent should these people be despised, so that for many years they do not learn the language of that State in principle? Dear Communist comrades! Dear Communist comrades, you support this candidacy today. Let me quote Carl Marx, your best man and your teacher. Karl Marx said that in a free, independent state, only the invader, a visitor, or a traitor, could speak in a non - state language. I want to ask you, Mr. Azarov, who is he for this state? Is he an invader? Is he a guest? Is he a traitor? And can we entrust this person with the authority of the supreme legislative body of the State? And call me, please, one country in the world, or Poland, or Russia, or China, or Germany, or any person who claims to be the head of the country's higher legislative body, in principle, I emphasize, in principle, because a person can't be so ignorant, so, well, to Azarov it doesn't apply, so stupid as not to learn his native language. I know he could have done it by reason of his intelligence, but this is a principled position. And so today the work of honour, the work of honour for each of us, and the work of honour of the Ukrainian people, do not support such a candidature if we do not want to have disgrace for all of Ukraine. And I want to say literally the last. I am a member of the four vocations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Every time, you know, the concoctions, every time there's a misunderstanding, but when the Supreme Council's cadence ends, we all hug each other, we mention the last battalions and we say that we did well for this people. But never once have we chosen the Supreme Council head, or the Tuckenka, or the Frost, or anyone, have we ever had such a disgrace. For the first time, it is a disgrace when a person in principle does not want to know his native language. And so I would like him to repent here, the more he gave his word, the more he gave his word that he would learn this language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u132	Yes, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to respond calmly. Well, you know. Man has both the right to aggrieve, both in pros and cons. Vladimir Vasilovich, Vladimir Vasilovich, what are you going through? So I'm asking you to calm down. The word is Sivolski Mikola Ivanovich, a faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u133	Dear National Deputies! I urge all of you to abide strictly by the agreements that have been reached. And since the coalition representative, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, has withdrawn his candidacy for us, there is no point in us continuing to participate in the discussion of the nominees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u134	The word is given by the national deputy Volga Vasil Aleksandrovich, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u135	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! I'm referring to Alexander Alexander Frost's candidature, and I want to talk to the television viewers who are looking at what's happening in the session room right now. Note one very important thing: The hall was silent only when the Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich came out. There is no way in this situation to combine this side and this side with another candidate. I came to the Socialist Party of Ukraine and brought along 25,000 people. The "Citizen Control" political party, which joined the Socialist Party, I used some argument at the time, this argument was completely unchanged. One and a half years ago, I'm not going to stick my finger in one direction or another who started this rhetoric at the crossroads of Ukraine, so about a year and a half ago, Ukraine started to spin, and it started to spin extremely hard. In this situation, I went through this entire electoral campaign with Alexander Alexandrovich in all the regions. In all regions, the same thesis was repeated -- the only political force -- is the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which is now able to unite Ukraine. The only leader who can sit behind this chair is Frost Alexander Alexander. Of course, there's going to be some arrangements now, some deals, we're going to start talking about something right now, but it's very important that this speech of mine is heard by the people who are watching us on TV. It's very important that people saw when Alexander Alexander took this session hall into his hands, it's very important. And I think that gradually and later, we'll find out, I've been talking about this throughout the negotiation process. The Frost of Alexander Alexander will be the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u136	The word has been given by the Ukrainian national deputy, Czarnovil Taras Viacheslavovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u137	Dear fellow national MPs, I am very hopeful that this day will end this incredibly long marathon that we have been going to form the organs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that tomorrow we will be able to begin and quickly complete the submission and formation of executive power in Ukraine. I see two names that will be in the bulletin and both are really worthy. Alexander Alexander Moroz worked as the Head of the Supreme Council, and no one will be able to abandon him that during this period the Supreme Council was not a really successful body, it did not exercise its rights in the Ukrainian state. Mikola Janović Azarov is one of the architects of Ukraine's rise after the destruction, after the severe destruction of the Ukrainian economy, and he is the one who provided a colossal trench when Ukraine was called the "central European tiger", which has really developed massively. I would very much like to see that perhaps in the course of these elections, further transformations, this is the kind of power system that could be formed if those people were to complement each other, one as speaker, the other as prime minister, the first vice-premier in any of these positions. At the moment, candidates have been nominated. I support Mikola Janović Azarov's candidacy as a person who really has colossal authority in the world, who has authority in Ukraine, who has proved how she, how this man can work and how she understands the essence and legislation of Ukraine, and the principles of the real, not the false, counterfeit and lying pseudo of patriotism. So, unfortunately for the greatest harm, Ukraine’s greatest blow was done in embroidery and the country’s most brutal treachery, unfortunately, under beautiful patriotic slogans. I would like to remind you that at a time when Mikola Janovich Azarov was one of the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, leader of our party, Ukraine was never on its knees before any of the neighbours in the West or the East. I want to remind you that just when people came to me who, for me, it was very sad and very painful, but in a beautiful Ukrainian language they made beautiful statements, Ukraine got down on its knees both in front of Russia and in front of the West. And today we're given conditions as a younger, humiliated brother, and so I'd really like the beautiful words about patriotism to finally be replaced by real, real patriotism. And I very much hope that the Supreme Council will have enough for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u138	The word has the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigorovich Lila Stepanovna, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u139	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! A venerable Ukrainian community! I'm not going to be so optimistic, and I don't think we're going to have a successful vote today. Why? Because one is not really supported, and the other will have to go through another or another circle in order to establish itself in the truth that he declares from the rostrum. Mikolo Janovich, really, Ukraine knows you, but you don't know Ukraine, maybe in a geographical, geological sense. But you don't know the soul of this people, his preferences, his dreams. And I have a strong confirmation before that, our parliamentary elder, the honourable deputy of Herasimov, was able to literally, within a short period of time, declare the oath of the MP so that he could give another round of applause for it, you're 15 years, unfortunately, that's not enough. But that's not the point. I'm sure, really, your candidacy won't be supported because there aren't enough votes. So I want to go back to my second candidature, Alexander Alexander Frost. You know, finally, I want to ask you from this rostrum, we're going to have four calls with you. Who are you, Alexander Alexandrovich? I remember very well how we voted on the Constitution and then I told the late Vyachelav Maximovich Cnervol, you know, he did a very good thing. And Chernobyl said, "Yes, Lila, but I still don't believe him." And when the polytreform of the Medvedchuk-Gapriveva version went, the Yulia Block Timoshenko and Our Ukraine really fought against it, and you were in favour. And when literally two or three weeks ago you said that I was willing to support and the devil to be a democratic orange coalition and socialists will be the last of this three-way agreement, because the coalition has already supported the Supreme Council's candidacy, put out by the "Our Ukraine" bloc, you broke your word. You know, Alexander Alexandrovich, it's been years. You and I have changed in this Parliament, but in every person's life, and you write poems and you know that, I write them. It's about half past six in the morning when you're alone with that sky above you with your conscience and ask who I am? If you are doing the right thing, Alexander Alexander, God bless you. But if wrong, it is a gross sin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u140	The word is given by the national deputy of Siedelnik, the faction of “The Yulia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u141	Dear comrades, since we do not currently have a coalition, I find it inappropriate to discuss candidates today. And I'll say one thing, comrades, I think today we should call upon the traitors to be despised. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u142	The word has the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! Dear voters! I'm the fourth call in Parliament. In 12 years, I had to go through more than one trial period with my colleagues. During this period, I saw both the Constitutional Treaty and the difficult period of the constitutional night, when we, the representatives of the “lefts” sometimes, and most of the time we stepped on our own even sometimes “I” and voted for one, for the sake of Ukraine. I remember the fiscal revolution, the tax revolution, when 68 laws were passed, had to be adopted overnight. But we found a common language, different politically, different materially, from different districts, and we started even from being representatives of major districts. But we understood one thing, we have Ukraine alone. I saw political parties standing up to each other at the beginning of their caedence. The cadence ended, they became friends, they understood that there was one thing to think about today, Ukraine. And she saw another when, in one faction, they hated each other terribly, even in one political party. That's why I'd like to come to you. Dear friends, we've been fighting for almost a third month, we've written down the principles, we've got what unites us -- this is our Ukraine, there's our Constitution, there's our electorates who have delegated us here and let us be different, but we have to unite. I remember all the highlights and the Constitutional Agreement, and what I said, the Constitution, but we only won that constitutional night because we got together and we got together around one -- Frost, that's when he managed to hold the Constitution on with us, you and me. So let's still go and realize that today this figure, it's the figure that can unite both the left and the right. And we need to understand: Ukraine has one and one frost! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u144	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Maybeard, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Is there a national MP in the hall? It doesn't, does it? The word is given by the National Deputy Stretović, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u145	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! We're all kids. We are the children of our parents, we are the children of our age, we are the children of young democracy. Today I want to say that democracy is once again being tested for strength. I can't accept a double approach. When there is no need for regulations in this room, and when there is a political goal to be achieved, everyone mentions regulations and requires a proportional distribution of committees. I want to ask the Chief. Please tell me, what, the coalition, as required by the regulations, has already fallen apart? The signature has already been revoked, is it missing? Then we approach the formation of a new coalition? If not, let us act by law. The Romans said, “You don’t know how to act by law.” Unfortunately, we have dueness, political relevance changes the requirements of the law. And we'll stumble. And it's going to be a long time before Alexander Alexandrovich doesn't like where he lives, like he said we live where he doesn't like to say where, until we remember that the law is above all. It gives the algorithm the right action. I'm talking to Alexander Alexandrovich. I welcome your slogan: “Let's build Europe in Ukraine”. But I cannot mention in European new history when members of the coalition, and I, as the subject of this coalition, know about your intentions in the day’s extension vote. Why is this not done before you speak openly, honestly, and transparently, as is the case with European politics? You're predicting a European choice. Why does the double standard once again enter our soul in order to destroy what we are so difficult to construct? It seemed to me that after the Orange Revolution, after we said that one era had passed and the other came, we would act exactly as the law required, what our predecessors did. Because I don't know what awaits our children if we don't follow those principles. And the last, the last, the last. Ivan Sidorovich, you're sitting in the center. On December night, we were with you on Maydan. We've talked a lot to you about what our Ukraine will be like, our new state. So, please tell me, with today's procedure, with today's approaches, do we take approaches to make our state the way we've seen it, the way we've drawn it? I'll say it technologically. You've taken advantage of what's under the leadership of the Socialist Party today, you've violated the Rules, you're making your decision. And if it's worth it, it's a violation, and then in the future, they'll mention that it's insane. And the last. Since the candidate from our faction essentially withdrew his candidacy from the coalition, I call on all coalition supporters not to take the ballot and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u146	Yes, the word has the Ukrainian National Deputy Bulba Stepanovich of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. As I have just been informed, the National Deputies of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” are refusing to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u147	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to remind someone who's talking about double standards. Recall how, in parallel, three months in a row, when consulting on the creation and negotiation of a three-member coalition, a separate political power, at the same time, arranged another form of coalition. Let's not talk about double standards. Let's talk about something else. What are we meeting in the Supreme Council to create a coalition for three weeks, for three months, before the New Year? Is this the task of the Supreme Council? Let's be honest with ourselves, though, that those who proposed to be the head of the Supreme Council of Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenka, I respect him with all due respect, but at that time they have already laid down the cause for the destruction of the democratic coalition. And so when we talk about morality, when we talk about immorality in a particular policy, let's start with each other. I, of course, support Alexander Moroz's candidacy, because I have spoken outspokenly and always that this is the candidate, this is the Supreme Council Head, who today needs Ukraine's democratic coalition, needs all of Ukraine. He alone is able to reconcile these two today, seemingly intransigent camps. And by comparing anyone, let us remember that those who betrayed Frost never excelled. That's what I'm saying. I'm warning you, with the betrayal of the Frost, you're going to throw yourself out. I refer to everyone completely and, unfortunately, to my friends, whom I have truly respected so far. I'm talking to all of you. Dear colleagues! Before we have our conscience, before we are responsible for Ukraine, we will vote in favour of the only candidate, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u148	The national deputy Galunenko gives the floor to the national MP Melnik, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u149	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. I am pleased today that a historic day will enter the history of Ukraine as a day of reconciliation, like the day of the Party of the Regions and the faction of Viktor Yanukovich, who, in fact, managed to unite this hall with colleagues. And I don't understand why our opponents are so actively criticizing Alexander Alexander Frost, who was praised a few days ago. I think stability is the most important thing for Ukraine. And we need to be stable and give up the proper ice cream. Some of the deputies may ask the mirror, “Who am I? ” And everyone knows that Alexander Alexander is the Frost, and everyone knows it and understands it. You know, I was born in Western Ukraine on the Polish side. And I'm in charge of the Kyiv district organization of the Capital Party of the Regions. And believe me, as a man's work, it's a pleasure to hear that song when they say, "Only he who loves the sun and the high heaven, who ascended into the mountain with light." The one who works for Ukraine, not the one who just wears the embroidery. Although who wants to compete with me at the Sousorium Academy in the embroidery of beautiful girls and boys, our talented children, I invite you to the competition. And you know, when they talk about the bachelor of the three mining medals of our Mikola Janovich Azarov, believe me, my older brother, my friend, and my counselor, and I have the honor, as our world-famous artist says, I have the honour of working under this man for 10 years. I assure you that in five years' time, the majority of parliament will say: “I have the honour of working with this person – a man of national thinking, a graduate, indeed, of the University of Lomonosov.” Lomonosov created a university in Moscow, and Mikola Janovich Azarov created the National Academy of Tax Services in Irpen, Ukraine, which is now being destroyed, which is now being destroyed. They're making fun of her. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, there is a decree, an order, a more faithful cabinet of ministers for the destruction of a national college. Isn't that a disgrace? Isn't that a shame? The destruction will stop, I believe it will stop, the abuse will stop. It's a collective. We will all be witnesses to the adoption of the Tax Code, the economic constitution. Mikola Janovich Azarov knows how to make people rich, especially how to create a truly civil society, where they will respect a person, his values, where they will respect him. Europe will be in Ukraine, holy truth. We will not, as they say, be on the outside, just watching and. Right next to us. Because now that they're coming to Irpine, they're going to wonder what kind of hardworking and talented people we are, because Mikola Azarov is the leader of a group of economic development strategies in Ukraine, because we're going to build a society with you that is truly a society of general well-being, we're going to do. Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u150	Yes, thank you. The word is given by the Ukrainian national deputy from the faction "Our Ukraine" Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u151	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I believe we are all guided by the truth. I believe in the truth that the Region is governed by today, I believe in the truth that is governed by the Socialist faction today, and I believe in the truth that everyone who sits in this room today is governed by today, but that's not true. And I think we have to understand today and I'm turning to our decision because the Supreme Council is today choosing the Head of the Supreme Council as the responsible decision. The famous Solomons “will all pass away and so will it, ” Alexander Alexandrovich. But what are we doing today, and what should we do with you as a higher legislature? We have to show some virtues to society every day, every single thing we do. And it doesn't matter whether you are, whether you are or not, or any of us are the Head of the Supreme Council, but it's important what lesson we're giving to our society today, and because we from this rostrum and from this hall have so often sown non-moral, not true, we are today reaping such results in this society. I urge everyone today to be guided by the responsibility of no one else, but because they think for us and what we have with you today is the impression of our action. Now, as to what's going on in this room today, we're giving a signal to society -- a signal of betrayal. Alexander Alexanderovich, I asked you a question. I was in coalition congregations when she was born. I was at coalition meetings when decisions on the Prime Minister and on the Chief of the Supreme Council were discussed. If you were honest and true, you would probably have to speak there, the entire coalition, not quietly keep your mouth shut and speak only in the council of the coalition. I don't have your official performance today, Alexander Alexandrovich, as a member of the coalition, on behalf of the faction. I'm willing to look at it, I think we could find a solution like this. Obviously, that's the problem. And with regard to the biography you've touched, Alexander Alexandrovich. I know my résumé, and I'm not giving up on her today. But I never cheated on a deal. And so I ask you, why are you doing this? And answer for your actions. Finally. I think it's moral to vote “Regions” for Azarova today. Vote in another way is not true. And so I urge everyone sitting in this room to think that someone who has betrayed will not betray once. And do not embrace the traitor in the situation, for he will betray you no less, but more, the traitor who has taken this road today. And that's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u152	The word is given by the Ukrainian national deputy, Viksentiyovich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I am acting today as a representative of the party, more loyally, of the faction that has covered itself with the shame of treason. So first of all, I apologize on behalf of the Socialist Party, where I am now the first secretary, for betraying the party and betraying my constituents. And this disgrace can never be washed away. I am even more sorry to have led this betrayal by Alexander Alexander Moroz, with whom I have spent 15 years of my life. And I could never imagine that under the influence of two or three people with a specific mechanism of influence, yes, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich would betray those people who had been with him for 15 years. He'll betray that party that trusted him unconditionally for 15 years. He will betray the millions of voters who voted for him and believed him. And I don't know, how will this party go on? Tomorrow we'll have a polytrade, but, Alexander Alexander, I don't vote for traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u154	Ukrainian national deputy Udovenko Hennady Josipovich gives the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u155	Honorable colleagues were national deputies, and many of those on the rostrum were mentioned here. How many cadences they spent in this session hall, I also want to remind them that more authority is, as it were, something to mention, I am Ukraine’s national deputy to all five cadences. And such a Pharisee, such a pitiful, humiliating, treacherous act. The kind of person we've been building up in our eyes, at least lately, I haven't had to see, but on the bitter side. This is the 15th year of independence of the Ukrainian State. Me, two candidates for the Supreme Council. Mikola Janović is no doubt a worthy man, but I think that Mikola Janovich should have waited for the next election of the Supreme Council. In five years, he will likely learn Ukrainian, or national, language. Because bitterly, when such a man is worthy, surely when you hear him in the rostrum of the Supreme Council, you certainly mention the wisdom of one great Frenchman who said that Teren resembled those words, he was wrong: either a invader or a temporary guest or a fat man. I wouldn't want Mikola Janovich to belong to any category. As far as the second candidature is concerned. Dear friends, Alexander Alexandrovich's prophecy, here he stood on the stand that he knew in advance that such a coalition would collapse, but before that he had signed a coalition agreement on the 22nd. Alexander Aleksandrovich, how could you not show yourself and the poetic lines which you are a worthy and respectable man, but a man who is still walking with a rose or with a nail to Lenin today, a man who betrayed a “canine four”, a man who, by the way, during a “constitutional night” could change his position in one night, when Alexander Alexander Alexander Alexander realized that if he did not accept the Constitution, which he did not want to accept very much, and when after midnight he realized that the Supreme Council could be closed and disbanded and the Kuchmi referendum, he began to ask for, say, say, "I understand, this is not good for me, but vote, because nothing of me will remain for the morning. Ukraine doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u156	The word is given by the national deputy Kunchenko Alexei Petrovich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! For the past 10 to 15 years, I have worked at the largest firm in Ukraine and in Europe, at the North Danish production association “Azot”, a business director, the Director-General of the Supervisory Board. I'm ashamed of myself in front of the electorate, as I've been doing for the fourth month in the Supreme Council, where I've been elected. To date, there are so many economic problems in the country and no one today is saying that there is a threat - gas intervention, today chemical complex enterprises, metals will be put on their knees in three to six months, how will nitrogen continue to work, for 2005 they have paid 400 million taxes on all budgets, as a result of 2006 there are no such taxes. How will the budget be formed? By what means will payments be made to our categories of workers who sit on budget funding? Why is it that no one says that tariffs traveled today? Remember those electoral orders that you colleagues came to this room for? And I came here to pass on my experience. I picked up that factory. The factory was on the verge of cutting in scrap metal. Today, the plant is running at 100% capacity and, I think, the sooner these conflicts end, the more so to say, the stabilization in the country will begin. Every day, I say, living in this country without Parliament, without Government, is a crime against our people. And I believe that Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz's candidature is the most experienced politician, the wisest politician worthy of being a speaker. And when all of this, so to speak, stabilizes, and he's able to unite Ukraine because it's really different. And only with him, so to speak, would I ask my colleagues and deputies to support this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u158	The word is given by the National Deputy of Kalashnikov Oleg Ivanovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u159	Respectable fellow countrymen, venerable prejudices, respected colleagues! Oleg Kalashnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, that today is a truly historic date. We have the opportunity to demonstrate not only to Ukrainian society, but to really to the world community that there is a Supreme Council in Ukraine. There is the Supreme Council, which represents the best representatives of the Ukrainian people. I am proud to have been born in Western Ukraine, in the glorious Partisan country of Plains. But at the same time, I'm proud to have the brave men of Donbass, Luhansk, Harkkowščina, Crimea sitting next to me. The patriots of Ukraine should not be divided by language. Today, the real traitors of the state are those who are selling it to those who are today bringing foreign troops into Ukraine. Those who violate the Ukrainian Constitution have almost destroyed Ukraine’s oil and gas sector. It is to those who today speculate that our people are so patient that they are waiting for us to reintroduce them again. In a deception that is now designed to undermine the real, professional and consistent work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm proud to represent the winning party. I am proud that this party is headed by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and I have the right to say here from this rostrum, yes, yes, to our candidate Nikolai Janović Azarov, an individual, a person, a citizen and a patriot of Ukraine. We will never let you monopolize the word “patriot” and “patriotism”. You, ladies and gentlemen, are the descendants of those who served in the Galicina SS division, those who shot their people serving the fascists and Hitlerites today do not impose an opportunity on the wise people of Ukraine to make the right choice. And the choice is to give professionals a chance to run the country. Nikolai Janović Azarov is also a representative of the highest echelon of the national government. Respectable compatriots! I am addressing you first, because today you need Ukraine to be united, preserved and revived. And I am sure that only a "great man", the patriot of Ukraine – Mikola Janović Azarov will be able to do so right here, bringing together the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're all together as a team of thinkers, a team of professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u160	The name is Lukjanenko Levko Grigorović, Ukrainian national deputy, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u161	Lukyanenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko Honorable Presidium, honourable deputies, and distinguished voters who listen to us. I welcome the Party of the Regions, which now had a representative who spoke Ukrainian. So you don't have to think that the entire Party of Regions is Russian and they only speak Russian and they despise Ukraine. Among them are those who honor the English language, and let us rejoice. I would now like to address the venerable Frost of Alexander Alexandrovich. I think that the three months that we've had, this train, from your own fault, Alexandre Alexandrovich, because if you'd kept that deal that you've already reached, you could have long chosen the leadership of the Supreme Council and there wouldn't have been this "catavasia". Because with you “Our Ukraine”, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, had a normal majority chosen by the peoples and represented the orange powers here. So it's not your conscience, Alexander Alexander. And finally, I'd like to make a few words about a candidate from the Party of the Regions. Do you know that the honorable regions of Azarov himself, Mikola Janovich, or do you know that he is a member of the Order of “St. Stanislav”, have become a member of the Order, and he has vowed, under that span, that he will carry out the statute of the Order of “St. Stanislaw”. The Order of St. Stanislav is located in London, its centre is in London, it has its statutes and statutes oblige it to comply with all the rules provided for in this Statute. Thus, of the two oaths each of us members of the Supreme Council swore from this rostrum that he would serve Ukraine, Azarov swore before the leadership of the Order of Saint Stanislav that he would follow the instructions and instructions of the Chapter of London. This oath cannot be revoked, so, the honourable Party of Regions, know who you are proposing to both the Supreme Council and Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u162	National MP Illashov gives the floor to the national deputy Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich, Party of the Regions. Ouch! I'm sorry, I'll give you my word, Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u163	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! I look at this sector of the halls and I think it would be, if, really, "you've thought of the three of your Orange Coalition if you can just pour so much dirt on a person who was held yesterday in the arms of the most beautiful words, where your human dignity, if you can so slander your sidekick." I'm not a member of the Socialist Party; I'm aware of this, I've proposed a candidate for Mikola Janović Azarov, and I will certainly support it, but I want to be honest, and I can't help but say that in those years, 1997-98, when my fate turned out to be the Chief of the President's Administration, and Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was the Head of the Supreme Council, I admit it publicly, he was the primary advocate of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. [[Applause]] And I want to say thanks to him from this rostrum. Because he and I both learned how to defend democracy in Ukraine. But I went to this rostrum to tell you that Ukraine needs to unite our people most today. But only a united political elite can unite our people, not an elite who competes in insults against one another. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Nikolai Janović Azarov, because of his personal human qualities, is a person who is able to seek and find and to carry out the compromises that are so necessary for all of us to work together in a consolidated manner for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. He came to this room in 1994 with a professional life experience, but over the years he has gained tremendous political and public experience. He can listen, he can hear any opponent. He can reason on his point of view by drawing close to the line of consent. That is the kind of person we need today at the head of our Presidency. I have no doubt that if we all support the candidature of Nikola Yanović Azarov together, we will make the right choice, the right choice for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u164	The word has been given by the Ukrainian national deputy, Baranivsky Alexander Petrovich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u165	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Our party has gone a pretty hard way. You know. The party is one of the first since Ukraine's independence to be formed on the territory of our country. We've never had a party in all these years under any wishes of certain politicians, presidents, others, we've always had our faces and we've had our own independent policies. We're one of those people when we're talking about conquering Maidan, and they're extremely large, but I'd like to say, if it wasn't for the Socialist Party, there would be no Midan, because 12 years, 12 years of waking people, 12 years of telling about the regime that worked. I'm one of those people who walked from Zitomir to Kiev in the winter and led 120 people in acts of disobedience, and we all stood with many of you on the Crusade, you remember that well. But what I'm saying is that those of you in the party here today gave a different description of the traitors, they were at the resorts somewhere else. And so to give someone a moral evaluation today, as Winsky does, I think it's here, he'd have to think about himself. I mean, dear friends, what today is the criticism of the morals of Alexander Alexander Moroz. But most of all, I hear this criticism from those who have repeatedly changed parties, switched factions, entered tens of times, and emerged from one authority or another. And that's why. Perhaps before calling on someone to a conscience, we should look at ourselves. I want to say that when someone calls someone a traitor, it's just when they all call them that, only one good one, so, the mouth doesn't go in the leg, it's the only one in the leg. So these are our party internal issues, and we will solve them. So what I'm going to say is that observational science notes that in nature, in the world, it's cyclical, and it's cyclical, it's 12 cycles. In 1994, as memory serves, Frost was elected Head of the Supreme Council and was successful, adopted by the Constitution, and united that complex hall. I am convinced that it is his figure that can unite us all today in order to make the East, and the West, so that our entire population of Ukraine will finally be calmed down, so that even the signal that the leader of the Socialists, and the Party, joins Socienne, is also a signal for the world community. After all, most of the world’s socialists are in power. That we continue to market all our reforms. Mikoli Janovich, I wish me success, too, but I think Mikola Janovich, well, you're young, maybe you'll be able to make it, maybe you can step back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u166	Yes, the word has the national deputy of Ukraine Bespalij Boris Jakovic, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u167	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, there is already a lot of interesting and instructive talk here, and there is such a smoke curtain that the time is likely to be out of it to crystallize the dry remnant. And it's the next one. Less than what the Constitution stipulated and its development by the Supreme Council Rules, the term "monthly" was a coalition agreement, an excellent programme of action for Ukraine, which I believe will be implemented in any scenario. Because it was really a good document for Ukraine. The other one. The ink has not yet been dried under this agreement, yet the third cocks have not been sung, and Alexander Alexander and his associates have actually broken this deal, and they have squandered it, and they have defiled it. Third. In fact, they entered today and that's what the vote is about, and this, I think, will soon become quite clear, but that's already clear, and now, they've entered into an alliance with the Party of Regions. To be honest, I don't know what scenario the farce of their continued fraternization is going to be. It's quite obvious that this scenario is, I don't know, there'll be one act, there'll be two acts, there'll be one vote, there'll be another vote. Such an interesting decision was made today, meaning that they would vote until they chose the Chief of the Supreme Council. Well, it's like digging a trench from the fence to lunch, of course. But eventually, they will share their positions and we are less concerned. Because they can't do any good. I welcome, as did Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, the distinguished heroes, the real heroes of Ukraine, the Party of Regions, and that they have acquired a reliable and principled ally, which, in truth, Ukraine is here to welcome nothing. I don't think it's right for us to be involved in this farce. And that's why the faction “Our Ukraine” will not participate and will not take part in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u168	Yes, the word has been given by the Ukrainian national deputy Sadowy Mikola Illich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u169	Honorable MPs, respected TVs and radio audiences and listeners! Today, we must select the Head of the Supreme Council and stop the unnecessary discussions that we are discussing. Some speak for treason. Look under your feet, look at the road that has passed, and you will see who is who. I've known Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz since 1991. During those break-down periods of history, when it was necessary to decide what would happen to Ukraine, and Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich saw the path that needed to be followed so that conditions could really be created to build this European life, which most of us are just talking about, but do little to build such a life. The people in the villages, the people in the cities are tired of the chatter that is being held in the walls of the Supreme Council. That's why we've had enough of this talk, enough of this promise, enough of this ludicrous game, we need to choose the head of the Supreme Council, and this person can be the only person who knows the matter, the person who knows the whole world, the person who can consolidate any political power, and he showed it by his life example when he was the head of the Supreme Council, and not only when he was the head of the Supreme Council. It's a person who's going to end up with constitutional reform so that economic life can be revived, that rural life can be revived, and that we can get out of a more or less normal life. Therefore, the faction of socialists will certainly vote for Alexander Alexandrovich. And I'm talking to all the MPs who are just-just thinking clearly. If you think clearly, you have to vote for Alexander Alexandrovich Frost. If you simply put your ambitions ahead of the car, there is certainly another way out. As for my statement and my one-party Winsky so far, if you have a conscience, you never do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u170	The word is given by Kravtsov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u171	Dear voters! Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! In fact, it was said that these conversations should be stopped, that we must understand what had happened, and that there had been a union, a united force, a united Ukraine. I ask everyone to understand and vote in favour of the Mikola Janović Azarov Regional Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u172	The word has the national deputy of Ukraine, Gornik Evgen Alexiyovich, the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u173	Honourable MPs" honourable voters! Today, during the discussion, the embroidery example was cited almost as an example of antipatriotism. On this point, I would like to point out to Shevchenko: “All you have is a hawk in your eyes; don’t touch the embroidery; it is not given to you. “ I don’t know It is and will be in the Ukrainian people. Now for a particular election situation. The topic of unifying Ukraine by the candidates proposed is set out here. But I don’t want to have to use the beautiful Ukrainian language of Mikola Janović Azarov anymore. Do you think that this is how you can unite Ukraine? What's more, his economic achievements. Mikola Janović, you have forgotten the 2004 budget when investments for the Ternopil region amounted to as much as 100,000. For the same number of people, how many million? What was Ukraine’s unification? Or is the sale of the “Criminal” in order to select Yanukovich as President of Ukraine and buy votes, what is Ukraine's unification? And in this way do you want to unite her? More than that, it is said that it will unite Ukraine with the Frost. Well, Alexander Alexanderovich, your electorate, the vast majority of them were standing on Maidan, and now you have not been voted for by the city's heaps to return to power and a communist-major majority with a socialist hue. Believe it! In spite of the failures of the orange team, we must go in the right direction, the common sense of our people, who gave her a second chance in spite of all the failures of the orange team! And this is the majority of the Ukrainian people, whatever those who want to call themselves Bolsheviks say. 32 percent was never the majority. And if we count those who voted, 22 percent, 22 percent have no right to claim and impose their will on Ukraine! We've been doing political reform with you. The meaning of political reform in the political coalition. It is now up to us without political coalition to choose the Head of the Supreme Council. This is another lie of the Ukrainian people, and if anyone in this room does, the Ukrainian people will not forgive him. I hope that the MPs will have the wisdom to fail all the candidates, because they are not compromising to Ukraine and to choose a candidature that will unite Ukraine and the coalition that will unite Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the time allocated to discuss candidates is over. Two people’s deputies, Alexander Alexanderovich, are asking for a reply. I'm sorry. Joseph of Viennese and all, yes. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy of Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u175	Dear National Deputies! A member of mine spoke, and here he tried to transfer responsibility for his betrayal to me. I don't get it, I want to say that there really was a time when I was forced after I got cold on Maidan to treat it, it was a fact that happened. But I am proud that the first tent on Maidan was broken by Winsky. I am proud that all the columns of the “Ukraine without the Cuchma” campaign have been driven and that it can be picked up by the VMD and made sure of that. I'm proud to have been in this company with dignity. I'm proud of that. But I, like Baranowski, did not run for office in the party, nor did I ask them to do the same. Unlike Baranowski, I never allowed myself to engage in the dishonesty of his positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u176	Yes, Your Honor, I am addressing candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You may be given 3 minutes for the closing word. Mikola Janovich, do you want a closing statement? Please, Mikola Janović, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Prepare Alexander Aleksandrovitch Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u177	Dear People's Deputies, thank you to all those who have said good words to me. I am also calm to those who have made critical remarks to me. Grigory Skovoroda seems to have put it this way: that man speaks only his mother tongue honestly and truthfully. I want to speak honestly and truthfully, especially in this room. I refer to those who spoke frankly mean words to me, to remember that Taras Grigorievich Shevchenko, in fact, lived most of his life in Russia and was a Russian-speaking person. He wrote his journals in Russian and wrote most of his pronouns in Russian too. So you want to exclude him from our common, the greatest culture in the world?Oh, my God! You want to exclude Gogol from this culture, you want to exclude Clay and many others from this culture! And we want to take advantage of the fruits, and once again, I emphasize, the greatest culture in the world, it is common to you. And I will make sure that tens of millions of people who speak my native language have the right to speak that language in Ukraine. So I call upon you all together, regardless of what language we speak, to make our Ukraine flourish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u178	He has a candidate for the post of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u179	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners, I would not wish to be in my place today in such a discussion. What's the matter? When we talk about double standards, we talk about different things when we hear words. Which is embarrassing because, you see, we're building democracy, we're fighting for it. So I want to ask you, who created the regime that we fought against? Who went to the palace in 2000 to the Ukrainian House and did what they could not do, what was not appropriate, what was not to be done? When I was not allowed to speak there, I succeeded, saying: “Go into the session room, do what is needed. He's doing it." You served the previous regime, now you're teaching me not to. I'm not going to answer anyone's personal insults. I'll be above that. But what I'm trying to say is that you're all, especially from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, you know I was telling the truth. I was raised so that I had to say what I thought. I can make a mistake. I can make life better. But I'm telling the truth, and you knew that the structure was designed to bring down this coalition in a matter of months. And I have enough arguments for not using them right now, I don't want to. For many years, I have worked in high politics, never being accepted by the superior leadership of the state. I realize that my decision today is to play ball, not to be the president, but he needs to know that he has to be supported. His stable authority is in both my position and our party and the entire MP Corps. I think so. I want to put it this way: believe me, I don't want to be the leader of such a parliament where the sectors are hostile to each other, but I know that no one else is going to unite these two sectors. Think about how to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u180	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the discussion on the nomination and discussion of candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have been concluded. We must now resolve the question of putting to a ballot, for secret voting for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to ask before this Peter Alexiyovich Prashenka, did I correctly understand and the Bureau understand that he had withdrawn his candidacy for the position of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? He's not here, is he? Peter Alexiovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u181	Great Presidium, Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Televisers, and Radio Listeners! I am very sorry that I have not only heard of Ivan Sidorovich Boki, but also of Alexander Alexander Moroz that the coalition and signatures that each national MP has put in place and thus testified to his political will, the state for now still exists, have not heard my call that in order to realize the absolutely natural right of the Party of Regions to put forward its candidate and discuss and allow a transparent democratic procedure to vote, this is their right, and we respect them. And they had to be given that right. And then to demonstrate the efficiency, effectiveness and reality of a coalition that wasn't created for 2 months, not for 3 months, but for 5 years, and which we all had to testify to, not by word, but by deed, that we promised to do during the election campaign. I am convinced that this vote will not result. I'm confident that from the same rostrum in an hour, the next procedure for electing the Chief of Staff will be the Supreme Council. And I hope that this will take the form of our coalition, despite everything that has been said offensively from this rostrum today. We don't close our coalition book and save these 239 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u182	Peter Alexiovich, Peter Alexiovich, is this how you record it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u183	I told you about the shooting in my first speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u184	It's all clear. It's all clear. So there are two candidates, two names: Mikola Janović Azarov and Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. So, please, please. What procedure? Well, please. Please include Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please turn on Matvienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u185	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Ivan Sidorovich, I have a question for you as a leader. I would like you to be to me, because I still don't understand what we voted for, because I didn't have a single letter of this decree written during her vote. This, by the way, I want you to remember as a leader. What should we do after the vote? Come into the hall? To hear the results of the vote and to continue voting until morning until we choose, do we take a break? I would like you to tell us clearly before the vote, how we should calculate our time. What's more, you know, after lunch we can't change the Rules, you've committed a violation of that -- that's the second thing we thank you for. Give a reasonable answer to your questions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u186	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm not Cassandra and I don't know the results of the vote. We'll see what the results of the vote will be and we'll work on it. Please. I said, in my absolute sense, I'm not Cassandra, so I can't give you the answers that will be the result of the vote. And with the results of the vote, we'll see how we work on it. Rephat Abdurahmanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u187	Dear John Sidorovich, distinguished colleagues! As you remember at one of our first meetings at the beginning of the work, we tried to select the Counting Commission, we finally took your part, the honourable John Sidorovich, then we chose the Counting Commission, but we didn't listen to the results of the election of the Head and, in general, of the Counting Commission, because then part of our colleagues who are very willing to vote today were boycotting the work of the Counting Commission. So now I propose to listen to the Counting Commission, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u188	Dear colleagues! At the meeting of this commission, Eugen Petrovich Chago was elected chairman. We have the opportunity to listen to him today and he will tell us how the voting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be organized. National Deputy Chago, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Eugene Petrovich, I ask that you inform us first of all how it was chosen, who was the head, the deputy, the secretary, and then we'll talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u189	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 25 May, the Counting Commission was elected to 22 National Deputies, taking into account the proportional representation of MPs in the Supreme Council, including: The People's Party – 9 People's Deputies, the Timoshenko Yulia Block – 6 People's Deputies, the “Our Ukraine” Block – 4 People's Deputies, the Socialist Party of Ukraine – 2 People's Deputies, the Communist Party of Ukraine – 1 People's Deputy. In accordance with Part 3 of Article 19 of the Rules, the counting commission shall elect the Head, the Deputy Head, and the Secretary of the Counting Commission. The first organizational meeting was held on May 25, and was chaired by the chairman of the Temporary MP group, National Deputy Boki Ivan Sidorovich. There were only 12 people's deputies from the 22nd, in the full membership of the Yulia Timoshenko, Our Ukraine and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The head of the calculus commission was Shago Evgen Petrovich, I am ahead of you, Yulia Timoshenko, deputy head of the calculus commission was elected Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich, secretary of the calculus commission was elected Filindash Eugene Vasilovich. Thank you. These individuals were chosen unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u190	Now, Eugene Petrovich, tell us how we are going to organize the voting procedure today and how much time it takes for the committee to prepare the ballots and then here from the rostrum you reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u191	Ivan Sidorovich, first of all, has to apply to the ballot, then there'll be a reckoning commission, determined by the time the vote is made, in the form of ballot papers, and I'll report it to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u192	Eugene Petrovich, is half an hour enough for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u193	No, it's not. I'll explain why, we're at least half an hour, or 40 minutes is what it takes to make ballots. And I'm saying, we're going to take the form, yeah, it really is. But the names of candidates for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine need to be in shape.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u194	Eugene Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Be careful, in accordance with the Rules, that the Counting Commission now offers us the form of a ballot after it does not meet for its meeting, so that it will meet and I ask that all the members of the committee go to meet and they will propose this form of the bulletin. It takes not more than 3 to 5 minutes to offer the form. After they offered the form of the bulletin, where the names of Azarova and Moroza would be written, they came to the session hall, and the session hall approved the form of the ballot. We're going to confirm the form of the ballot, and then they're going to make these ballots there, and it's going to have to be 30 and 40 minutes. We'll wait until they make the ballots and tell them how we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u195	Eugene Petrovich, where are you going?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u196	I'll tell you where we're going to go, but first, we need to vote for the last name we put in the bulletin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u197	That's what we talked about. We only have two of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u198	We vote, and there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u199	That doesn't require a vote. Eugene Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u200	Dear colleagues! There is no need for a vote, we will vote in favour of the Head's candidature, but we will vote in favour of candidates who have not refused. At any time, any candidate has the right to withdraw his candidacy. Peter Alekseiovich withdrew his candidacy, which means she's gone. There'll be no vote in the ballots. You don't have to. Self-refoulement shall be accepted without a vote. So in the bulletin, we discussed two of the names of Azarov and Frost without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u201	So I'm asking then, I'm reminding you of the composition of the Counting Commission. From the Party of Regions: Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, Komar Mikola Stepanovich, Korsaków Olexei Jakovic, Final Vladimir Leontijovich, Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Rimaruk Alexander Ivanovich, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich. From the Political Party Block of Yulia Timoshenko: Abdullin Alexander Rafkatovich, Biruk Lev Vasilovich, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Kirilczuk Evgen Ivanovich, Stasov Love Volodymyrna, Shago. From the "Our Ukraine" Block: Gnatenko Lev Mikolaiovich, Žebrovsky Pavel Ivanovich, Orobec Yuri Mikolaiovich, Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich. From the Socialist Party of Ukraine: Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich. From the Communist Party of Ukraine: Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. I'm asking you to meet me in the lobby on the third floor in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u202	I think five minutes is enough, Eugene Borisovich. Eugene Borisovich, and five minutes is enough to gather. Yeah. A break of 15 minutes is announced. Then we're going to meet here in the hall and the Counting Commission will tell us how we're going to be. He has a candidate for the post of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u203	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners, I would not wish to be in my place today in such a discussion. What's the matter? When we talk about double standards, we talk about different things when we hear words. Which is embarrassing because, you see, we're building democracy, we're fighting for it. So I want to ask you, who created the regime that we fought against? Who went to the palace in 2000 to the Ukrainian House and did what they could not do, what was not appropriate, what was not to be done? When I was not allowed to speak there, I succeeded, saying: “Go into the session room, do what is needed. He's doing it." You served the previous regime, now you're teaching me not to. I'm not going to answer anyone's personal insults. I'll be above that. But what I'm trying to say is that you're all, especially from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, you know I was telling the truth. I was raised so that I had to say what I thought. I can make a mistake. I can make life better. But I'm telling the truth, and you knew that the structure was designed to bring down this coalition in a matter of months. And I have enough arguments for not using them right now, I don't want to. For many years, I have worked in high politics, never being accepted by the superior leadership of the state. I realize that my decision today is to play ball, not to be the president, but he needs to know that he has to be supported. His stable authority is in both my position and our party and the entire MP Corps. I think so. I want to put it this way: believe me, I don't want to be the leader of such a parliament where the sectors are hostile to each other, but I know that no one else is going to unite these two sectors. Think about how to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u204	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the discussion on the nomination and discussion of candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have been concluded. We must now resolve the question of putting to a ballot, for secret voting for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to ask before this Peter Alexiyovich Prashenka, did I correctly understand and the Bureau understand that he had withdrawn his candidacy for the position of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? He's not here, is he? Peter Alexiovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u205	Great Presidium, Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Televisers, and Radio Listeners! I am very sorry that I have not only heard of Ivan Sidorovich Boki, but also of Alexander Alexander Moroz that the coalition and signatures that each national MP has put in place and thus testified to his political will, the state for now still exists, have not heard my call that in order to realize the absolutely natural right of the Party of Regions to put forward its candidate and discuss and allow a transparent democratic procedure to vote, this is their right, and we respect them. And they had to be given that right. And then to demonstrate the efficiency, effectiveness and reality of a coalition that wasn't created for 2 months, not for 3 months, but for 5 years, and which we all had to testify to, not by word, but by deed, that we promised to do during the election campaign. I am convinced that this vote will not result. I'm confident that from the same rostrum in an hour, the next procedure for electing the Chief of Staff will be the Supreme Council. And I hope that this will take the form of our coalition, despite everything that has been said offensively from this rostrum today. We don't close our coalition book and save these 239 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u206	Peter Alexiovich, Peter Alexiovich, is this how you record it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u207	I told you about the shooting in my first speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u208	It's all clear. It's all clear. So there are two candidates, two names: Mikola Janović Azarov and Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. So, please, please. What procedure? Well, please. Please include Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please turn on Matvienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u209	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Ivan Sidorovich, I have a question for you as a leader. I would like you to be to me, because I still don't understand what we voted for, because I didn't have a single letter of this decree written during her vote. This, by the way, I want you to remember as a leader. What should we do after the vote? Come into the hall? To hear the results of the vote and to continue voting until morning until we choose, do we take a break? I would like you to tell us clearly before the vote, how we should calculate our time. What's more, you know, after lunch we can't change the Rules, you've committed a violation of that -- that's the second thing we thank you for. Give a reasonable answer to your questions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u210	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm not Cassandra and I don't know the results of the vote. We'll see what the results of the vote will be and we'll work on it. Please. I said, in my absolute sense, I'm not Cassandra, so I can't give you the answers that will be the result of the vote. And with the results of the vote, we'll see how we work on it. Rephat Abdurahmanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u211	Dear John Sidorovich, distinguished colleagues! As you remember at one of our first meetings at the beginning of the work, we tried to select the Counting Commission, we finally took your part, the honourable John Sidorovich, then we chose the Counting Commission, but we didn't listen to the results of the election of the Head and, in general, of the Counting Commission, because then part of our colleagues who are very willing to vote today were boycotting the work of the Counting Commission. So now I propose to listen to the Counting Commission, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u212	Dear colleagues! At the meeting of this commission, Eugen Petrovich Chago was elected chairman. We have the opportunity to listen to him today and he will tell us how the voting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be organized. National Deputy Chago, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Eugene Petrovich, I ask that you inform us first of all how it was chosen, who was the head, the deputy, the secretary, and then we'll talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u213	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 25 May, the Counting Commission was elected to 22 National Deputies, taking into account the proportional representation of MPs in the Supreme Council, including: The People's Party – 9 People's Deputies, the Timoshenko Yulia Block – 6 People's Deputies, the “Our Ukraine” Block – 4 People's Deputies, the Socialist Party of Ukraine – 2 People's Deputies, the Communist Party of Ukraine – 1 People's Deputy. In accordance with Part 3 of Article 19 of the Rules, the counting commission shall elect the Head, the Deputy Head, and the Secretary of the Counting Commission. The first organizational meeting was held on May 25, and was chaired by the chairman of the Temporary MP group, National Deputy Boki Ivan Sidorovich. There were only 12 people's deputies from the 22nd, in the full membership of the Yulia Timoshenko, Our Ukraine and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The head of the calculus commission was Shago Evgen Petrovich, I am ahead of you, Yulia Timoshenko, deputy head of the calculus commission was elected Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich, secretary of the calculus commission was elected Filindash Eugene Vasilovich. Thank you. These individuals were chosen unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u214	Now, Eugene Petrovich, tell us how we are going to organize the voting procedure today and how much time it takes for the committee to prepare the ballots and then here from the rostrum you reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u215	Ivan Sidorovich, first of all, has to apply to the ballot, then there'll be a reckoning commission, determined by the time the vote is made, in the form of ballot papers, and I'll report it to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u216	Eugene Petrovich, is half an hour enough for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u217	No, it's not. I'll explain why, we're at least half an hour, or 40 minutes is what it takes to make ballots. And I'm saying, we're going to take the form, yeah, it really is. But the names of candidates for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine need to be in shape.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u218	Eugene Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Be careful, in accordance with the Rules, that the Counting Commission now offers us the form of a ballot after it does not meet for its meeting, so that it will meet and I ask that all the members of the committee go to meet and they will propose this form of the bulletin. It takes not more than 3 to 5 minutes to offer the form. After they offered the form of the bulletin, where the names of Azarova and Moroza would be written, they came to the session hall, and the session hall approved the form of the ballot. We're going to confirm the form of the ballot, and then they're going to make these ballots there, and it's going to have to be 30 and 40 minutes. We'll wait until they make the ballots and tell them how we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u219	Eugene Petrovich, where are you going?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u220	I'll tell you where we're going to go, but first, we need to vote for the last name we put in the bulletin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u221	That's what we talked about. We only have two of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u222	We vote, and there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u223	That doesn't require a vote. Eugene Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u224	Dear colleagues! There is no need for a vote, we will vote in favour of the Head's candidature, but we will vote in favour of candidates who have not refused. At any time, any candidate has the right to withdraw his candidacy. Peter Alekseiovich withdrew his candidacy, which means she's gone. There'll be no vote in the ballots. You don't have to. Self-refoulement shall be accepted without a vote. So in the bulletin, we discussed two of the names of Azarov and Frost without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u225	So I'm asking then, I'm reminding you of the composition of the Counting Commission. From the Party of Regions: Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, Komar Mikola Stepanovich, Korsaków Olexei Jakovic, Final Vladimir Leontijovich, Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Rimaruk Alexander Ivanovich, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich. From the Political Party Block of Yulia Timoshenko: Abdullin Alexander Rafkatovich, Biruk Lev Vasilovich, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Kirilczuk Evgen Ivanovich, Stasov Love Volodymyrna, Shago. From the "Our Ukraine" Block: Gnatenko Lev Mikolaiovich, Žebrovsky Pavel Ivanovich, Orobec Yuri Mikolaiovich, Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich. From the Socialist Party of Ukraine: Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich. From the Communist Party of Ukraine: Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. I'm asking you to meet me in the lobby on the third floor in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u226	I think five minutes is enough, Eugene Borisovich. Eugene Borisovich, and five minutes is enough to gather. Yeah. A break of 15 minutes is announced. Then we're going to meet here in the hall and the Counting Commission will tell us how we're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u227	Take your seats in the hall. The commission is ready to report to us, I understand. Eugene Petrovich Chago. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u228	Dear National Deputies! In the presence of the head of the Counting Commission, Shago, Deputy Chubarov, the Branch of the Commission of Filindash and 18 members of the Counting Commission approved this form of ballot for the secret ballot for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A white paper bulletin in the form of a quadrilateral with a black label for each variant. Letter for the secret ballot for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 6, 2006. Azarov Mikola Janović, Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich, I do not support any candidate. Here's the box, in this box you're making any marker: a branch, a cross, a circle, any mark for the candidate you're voting for. This bulletin is signed so that you know, as agreed, the head of the commission, the secretary of the commission, and the members of the Committee: Pecklusenko, Cibenko, and Chubarov. I mean, there are signatures from representatives of all political parties. I see. It takes us an hour and a half to make ballots. One and a half hours. The vote will take place at 21:00, at the tables where we register. Tables, ballot papers will be issued at the presentation of the certificate, necessarily passing through the booths and putting ballots in the urns. The vote takes one hour, from 21 to 22 hours, at 22 hours the vote ends.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u229	Any questions for Eugene Petrovich? Please sign in. Yeah, three minutes to answer. National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u230	National MP Smithukh, Party of Regions. Please specify, what are the other signs that protect the ballot from possible counterfeiting?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u231	Ballot papers cannot be falsified because each ballot is signed by each faction representative. From the Faction of BUTU, I sign, from the faction of “Our Ukraine” signed by Chubarov, from the Party of the Regions by Pecklusenko, from the Communist Party signed by Chubenko and under the Socialist Party. Signs Filindash. There will be no counterfeiting of ballot papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u232	People's deputy, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u233	Thank you. National MP Shibko, Socialist Party. Eugene Petrovich, why do we have an hour and a half? There, what paper, offset printing there, watermarks or why is it there so long it's going to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u234	I was told that it would take 40 minutes to make ballots. It's not in this room. By the time we put the signatures under those, that's 450 signatures, that's the way it's going to work. If we're ready early, with your permission, I'll return to this rostrum and ask you to decide on another term.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u235	Yes, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u236	Dear reporter, I am a member of the Counting Commission, but I would like you to explain to everyone in which case the ballot will be declared invalid so that all MPs will understand how to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u237	Thank you for the command. It's not going to be real when it's crossed, crushed and so on. That's where it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u238	Eugene Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear colleagues, the article on secret ballots clearly sets out which ballots will be invalid. What I want to explain from the Bureau is what I'm sorry. A broken ballot isn't a broken ballot. The important thing is that it has the right markings. If both names are marked against both names, it is not valid. If, as it were, nothing was marked, it was just real, but it didn't happen. If there's a given last name, it doesn't count. It's all set. Alexander Mikolaiovich, read the regulations, it's all written there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u239	Yes, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u240	Dear President, we understand everything. It is merely a wish that the Commission, for the first time today, will work and will work for five years to prepare very quickly, very quickly and clearly, so that we all vote and hear the results today and with a clear conscience and a calm soul go home.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u241	Thank you for your request. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u242	Yes, thank you. All of it. The questions are exhausted. Question time's up. At 21:00, we all vote in an orderly fashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u243	Dear colleagues, at 21:00 in the hall, because the Head of the Commission will tell us how to vote. Not to the urns, but we have to go into the hall at 9:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u244	On the committee. No, no, the commission. It's a little easier here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u245	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit down, we'll have a very, very few minutes of work and then we'll work differently. Dear colleagues! Eugene Petrovich Chago on the rostrum. And you and I need to do one thing. We need to confirm the pattern of the ballot shown to you, right? Anything else about the voting procedure, and so on, you'll be told by the head of the Counting Commission, Eugene Petrovich Chago. There is no objection to that.? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u246	Deputies! Once again, I am reminded of a model ballot for the secret ballot for the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 6, this year: Azarov Mikola Janović, Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich, I do not support any MPs, signatures, the head of the Counting Commission, the Secretary of the Counting Commission, the members of the Counting Commission, Pecklusenko, Cibenko, Chubarov. These are the signatures. We're in these squares where we put any label: either a twig, or a cross, or a circle. You can see everyone, can't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u247	Who's to approve such a sample of the ballot paper, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u248	The counting committee is ready to hold a secret vote. [[21:09:54]] For 234 234 votes. The factions? Let's do the factions. Region Party – 186, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 0, Socialists – 27, Communists – 21. Eugene Petrovich, are we ready to vote there?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u249	Yes, we are ready to vote, and I warn you that the vote ends at 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u250	“ My Life Is Impartial, ” 10 / 22
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u251	Dear National Deputies, the word is given to the Head of the Counting Commission, National Deputy Shah Eugene Petrovich. He will announce the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u252	Honorable Presidium, venerable audiences, distinguished voters, distinguished national deputies. [[Applause]] Please have a seat. Protocol No.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Counting Commission of July 6. There have been reports of secret ballots about the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In a secret ballot on the election of the Supreme Council, candidates were included: Azarov Mikola Janović, Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission has established the number of national deputies who have been recognized as 449. The number of national deputies who received secret ballots is 238. The number of national deputies who took part in the vote is 238. The number of invalid ballots is not available. His first name and surname were Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, who received 238 votes. [[Applause]] Azarov Mikola Janović did not receive a single vote. [[Applause]] Thus, according to article 88, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapter 7, and articles 70, 74, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider the elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. [[Applause]] However, a statement was made by the national deputy Shevchuk. He asks for a word on the question of voting. Will there be no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u253	Eugene Petrovich, you can read it yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u254	Head of the Counting Commission, Shago Eugen Petrovich of the national deputy Shevchuk. A statement. I'm leading you to your knowledge that I've been exposed to the fact that I'm forging a secret ballot. Instead, I was given a ballot to vote on another MP who signed against my last name. Since I did not take part in the vote, this fact is a testimony to the attempt by members of the faction of the party of regions to illegally resolve the results of the vote, the signature of the national MP. Let me make an explanation. Indeed, the city had such a fact. This error was noted by the members of the Counting Commission themselves. Next to the people’s deputy Shevchuk was the signature of Shenchev. He was invited to the Counting Commission, which confirmed that, indeed, he had made a mistake; he had signed up there. Where his name stands, the coordinator who was at this table -- Stoyan, made a note on the lists that were wrongly signed, was testified by the members of the Counting Commission who were at this table. That's an explanation. Well, I'm asking you to give the floor to the National Deputy himself. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u255	Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Shevchuk. Do you want to go to the rostrum? Well, please. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u256	Thank you. I'm leaving the rostrum because there are no cards. I heard the screams, "Provocater." I want to say that I've been on the count committee in the last two phone calls, and I know the rules of secret balloting. But for the first time, I saw the fact that there was a gross forgery when the bulletin was issued in place of me to another national MP from the faction of the regions. He put a signature in front of my last name. I think that the members of the counting committee who worked at this table didn't find out that fact, and I noticed that myself and I went to the counting committee. This is the first time I have seen such a fact of gross and cynical misconduct. In addition, I bring to your well-known, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, a violation of the so-called secret ballot procedure. Since there were two deputies in front of the booths before the vote: the MP Rudzikowski, who stands now, and the deputy Semenyuk, who, like the school teachers, showed the ballots, the leader of the factions of the regions, the leader of the Communist factions, and other factors. This is a violation of the secret ballot procedure. As a member of the Ukrainian delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I leave the right to inform the international parliamentary community of such an beginning, of the beginning of the lie and of the new majority. Where that road will lead us all to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u257	Yes, thank you. Eugene Petrovich, you have everything. Okay. Thank you. Eugene Petrovich, thank you. Honourable People’s Deputies, so Alexander Alexander Moroz is elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me invite him at the Bureau table and let you know that the Temporary Bureau is in charge of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-06-m1.u258	Thank you. I'm asking you to sit down. Honorable National MPs, respected TV sets, radio audiences, voters, Ukrainians at all! I can't say it's an unexpected result for me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Obviously, this was to be the case. And today I feel a moral obligation toward those who voted for me, and I feel a moral obligation toward those who voted against or did not vote. And I want to say that to me, all deputies are equal at least because I have no other obligation to anyone. And that gives me the opportunity to say what I think I think is convinced that it corresponds to the ambushes that I went to people in elections with. I want to say that after spending about 200 meetings with voters in all the regions of Ukraine, I've been talking everywhere about how we have to remove the tension that was created artificially, so that there is no division of Ukraine that is being observed today. I am convinced that we will solve this problem, be sure to resolve it, and be more than sure that those who today feel they are victorious or who think they are victorious will cooperate. There can be no winners and winners in Parliament. There may be opponents in Parliament, there may be rivals who have different approaches, different visions of Ukraine's development, but if we play by the principles of “one win and the other lose”, then the whole state loses, Ukraine loses, this cannot be allowed. I hope that very quickly those who are doing something wrong today or that, they will understand that it is impossible to do so, that the practice of our work in Parliament and in the whole of the country is helping to satisfy the interests of each individual citizen and that this will be the most complete and necessary response to the expectations of the people they place on the Supreme Council today and on power in general. There's a lot to talk about, I don't want us to take advantage of the moment to engage in propaganda, advertising, or anything. Now is the late hour, by the way, of the night of John the Bath, who you do not remember. I'd like us to meet the Conciliation Council tomorrow morning, figure out how to move on. I'd like to suggest at 9:30 a.m. I'd like to gather the Conciliation Board to determine tomorrow's procedure, to take into account some of the nuances that came out of today's situation. And in the meantime, think about how to do this, I'd like us not to fight any further, even though I understand that in the Supreme Council, the debate is always going on the way it is, and it's not. But I think with the help of all of you, we will remove artificial tensions and unnecessary conflicts in the session room. It's very important, you have to do this. And it's going to be done, anyway, I'm going to do my best and I'm going to do everything that's mine. Well, and finally, as Head of the Ukrainian Parliament, Parliament of the State, which is one of the largest in the world and in Europe, I would like us to demonstrate to our society and to the international community the ability to work as the legislative body does. I'd like us to finish our session today. Once again, I am deeply grateful to all those who voted in favour, who voted or did not vote at all. And thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for being able to speak in the rostrum of Parliament to express his opinion, it is also a sign of democracy, and it should be. I would like us to learn to listen to each other, because the experience of my 16-year-old Parliamentary activity shows that we have a lot of smart people in Parliament. We express many wise, wise thoughts, but we have yet to learn how to listen to one another. Let us listen and then the victory will be shared with all of us. I hope so, once again, thank you all for being like this and for having resolved the question that should have been resolved for today. Many things are ahead, and I hope that we all have the strength, health, and wisdom to resolve them. Thank you all.
