ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs, respected journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV set, radio listener! We're starting the morning session of the Supreme Council, and I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Place your cards, register. There are 243 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Zabzaluk Romano Omelanovic, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanović, Skudar Georgi Markovich. [[Applause]] We welcome them all warmly and wish that their work in Parliament be successful today and forever and ever. Therefore, we begin to consider matters that are now foreshadowed by the order of the day. But before that, at the proposal of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko and the Block of Our Ukraine, I repeat that the coalition of MP factions, which was formed on 22 June 2006, has been shut down in view of the decline in the number of coalitions to the number of peoples less than that defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. And taking this into account, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 61, 62 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, I reiterate my announcement of the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Coalition of Deputies of the Fifth Council of Ukraine. A coalition of MP factions was formed on the basis of the Agreement on the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, signed by the heads of the MP factions of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Communist Party of Ukraine, consisting of 239 Ukrainian national deputies, who signed their own signatures to confirm their consent to become members of the coalition. Lists of members of the named MPs with the individual signatures of the national MPs, which are an integral part of the treaty coalition, are added. The anti-crisis coalition included 238 people's deputies at the time: the MP's Party of the Regions, 186 people's deputies, the Socialist Party faction, 29 people's deputies, 21 Communist Party factions and 2 people's deputies, 1 People's Deputies Block. I would also like to say that today's received statements are made by individuals who, on the basis of these statements, entered into the coalition by the deputies Borgich Alexander Ivanovich, Dentist Mikhailo Vasilovich and Tolstenko Vladimir Leonidovich. The Rules do not provide for the names of members of the coalition. But since the 22nd number Adam Ivanovich, in charge of the meeting, did this procedure, I'm going to repeat it, so let's say, and the name of the members of the coalition. From the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions, I call names only without names and fathers, I think I'll be excused by MPs. Kolković, Azarov, Andros, Antemuk, Antipenko, Arkallaev, Ahmtov, Bachevokko, Bebzenko, Bertash, Biliy, Boguslav, Boguslav, Boldirev, Bondarenko Victor, Bondarenko Olena, Bondik, Bort, Bronnnikov Lizarlakov, Darda, Deminko, Jari, Jiga, Etukhov, Ikremov, Ikivko, Zabakivsky, Kulakivsky, Kulakivsky, Kurakivsky, Kuraković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovaković, Kovakovsky, Kovaković Tabojnik, Tedeev, Tikhov, Tulub, Turmanov, Fesenko, Hara, Homutinnik, Zapuk, Tsarkov, Jurko, Chertkov, Chečetov, Čmir Yuri, Crnowil, Shentz, Skin, Scherban, Yaduha, Janovsky, Yanukovich Viktor, Jaroschuk. From the MPs of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: Baranovsky, Boyko, Boki, Bondarczuk, Bugajec, Bulba, Volga, Goncharov, Danilin, Derkac, Kuzmenko, Kupchenko, Matvienkov, Mendus, Mordovec, Nikolayanko, Polakov, Rudzikowski, Sadow, Seminouk, Selchenko, Spodarenko, Tarasov, Filindash, Tsusko, Čmir, Chukmasov, Šibko. From the Communist Party of Ukraine MP: Alexandrovska, Alexiev, Babourin, Borstevsky, Gerasimov, Golub, Grac, Zaklunna-Mironenko, Kilinkarov, Kravchenko, Marmazov, Martinyuk, Matviev, Nastavajko, Oplačko, Parubko, Ponomarenko, Samojlik, Simonenko, Tkachenko, Cibenko and the name Volkova, Zaplański, Zubica I called them again, I called them. And once again: Borzich, Tolstenko and Teeth from “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. So I also implemented this procedural norm. I repeat, it is a tradition, since it is not provided for in the Rules, but to use the principle of analogy, I took this opportunity. We have come up with, I know the factions have offered to take half an hour to communicate about the situation that is now in Parliament, in the society of issues that need to be addressed, considered, or resolved. So I suggest from each faction that I be able to speak for five minutes on what concerns factions or deputies today. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please. Please, who's going to be the socialist? Baranowski, please. Baranowski, followed by Lapin, the Party of Regions is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters of Ukraine! Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I think we've come to the point where there's no more explanation for the people who are the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is why the Supreme Council doesn't work fully. While in quite a number of areas in Ukraine, voters do not understand, but those who voted in favour of a political power, why does the Supreme Council not work today? Why is there today a process in the Supreme Council in the political life of Ukraine that is not supported by voters at all. Moreover, during the election campaign, no political power declared its intentions that this would be the case in Ukraine. Yes, some today have quite a lot of ambitions. Each individual wants to be a prime minister, other positions to be occupied. But there's not much to want. Maybe I want something too. Everyone wants something. But there are today corresponding realities. The Rules form a coalition today. And of course it's not made today, it's made, you know, 10 days ago. Today, a list of coalition members has been reread. So the time has come for us to give those of us who had problems and that we, for example, could not come to a logical conclusion with you, today is the time for this to be resolved successfully. The voters today are not even interested in the composition of the coalition, the voters today are not interested in the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, the voters today are interested. How they will live tomorrow. They want to know what their salary would be, what would be their pension, what would be the prices, how would the crop come together, how would the sowing campaign, what would the fall be, what would be the nose, what would the energy supply be? People are interested in their being. And we, the national electorate, must provide today's legislative and not just legislative, but through the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, their lives are worthy. I don't understand that logic when, for example, some national advocates, denying the rights of all society, ignoring the interests of all society, put their interests ahead of them. You can't put the country in a position or the entire Supreme Council for your ambitions. We need to take a closer look at these things and see them as they are today. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine welcomes today's formation of a new coalition, and we are confident that in the next day and tomorrow, the Cabinet of Ministers will be formed, and we will be able to demonstrate the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u3	From the Party of Regions, who will be speaking? Please. Then from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. I repeat, from the Party of Regions, please. Kushnarov Eugene, please. Then from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u4	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Without exaggerated attention not only for Ukraine but also for the civilized world today is attached to the events that have taken place in this Hall. I have no doubt that the vast majority of people do not understand what moves those politicians who, instead of consolidation, instead of sharing responsibility for our Ukraine's share, are trying to bring back to our lives a violent stand against one another. A party of regions, loyal to its electoral commitments, together with partners, has formed an anti-crisis coalition and believes that this is the only way out of the parliamentary crisis and from the political crisis that the country is in today. Only by bringing together all responsible, patriotic, pragmatic deputies can we eliminate the divisions and opposition that exist in the political elite of Ukraine and by uniting efforts to unite Ukraine as a whole. People are tired of fighting. People don't understand why they're called back on the streets when they need to be in the field when they need to be in the Marches when winter comes with very vague prospects. I am addressing the representatives of BUTT. Dear colleagues! You're calling for a new election. You didn't make it. I think the Competitive France and Zidane himself would be happy to play the game with Italy right now, but, uh, we'll have to wait four years. So be patient, and as you have called on us, you are learning to work in the status in which you have been placed today. That doesn't mean we look at you as enemies. You're our colleagues, you're the people who came here to think about Ukraine. And today we are ready to have a normal and constructive dialogue with you. We are faithful to our commitments, we invite you, on a proportionate basis, to head a part of the parliamentary committees and to obtain a Vice-Speaker position so that, in solidarity, we are in the ruling coalition and you in the opposition, we can decide the fate of Ukraine. But to solve it here, in this room, not in the squares and streets, not in the harsh opposition of our people. I have been familiar with the decisions of some of the councils of Western Ukraine. The proportion was so ordered that I had to read the Criminal Code with the investigators of the Attorney General. If calls such as the dissolution of parliament without grounds, the introduction of direct presidential rule, the formation of the Government by the President and the failure to conduct elections until the so-called national patriotic forces are united, what do these appeals mean?Oh, my God! I am surprised by the passive position of the Attorney General's Office, which closes my eyes to this kind of foolishness. I would like to recall that this is the kind of joke that started a confrontation in Ukraine that has torn our society apart. I call on those authors who write such documents to read the decisions taken today by regional, urban and district councils in the other half of Ukraine. These are decisions aimed at working together to find a way out of the crisis. These are decisions aimed at uniting our society, to consolidate all the healthy forces in order to calm Ukraine, so that professionals can come to government and work properly. I think that today, by formally recording the birth of our coalition, we have removed all procedural obstacles that the President of Ukraine had in order to immediately submit Viktor Yankovic's candidacy to Parliament for approval by the Prime Minister. And I have no doubt that the next day after the approval of the Prime Minister, Ukraine will receive a strong professional coalition government and we will leave behind what separated us in the past. And we will work together for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Who's going to be on the block of Yulia Timoshenko, please? Julia Volodymyrna has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u6	Good day, honourable deputies, good day to all those who now hear me on the radio, or watch me on TV. Yes, today is, indeed, once again a sign of politics, because today is the second day of the so-called Anti-Crist Coalition. I think the Prime Minister's candidature will be introduced for the second time. I remember the time of the presidential campaign, when the second, third and fourth candidates were greeted with a victory, but nothing happened. And today it is not a victory. And what was announced today for the second time by the so-called “Anti-Cristian Coalition” and the second time by the Prime Minister's candidature, tells us that everything was done illegally and they themselves realized who created this group in Parliament and they confirmed that what was illegally needed to be corrected immediately. But I want now all the people of goodwill in the country who have the intelligence for which Ukraine, our independence, our national identity are not empty words to understand that in reality there was a coup d'état in Parliament, a political, a veritable coup And it happened because the two political forces that were fighting the oligarchy were fighting the clans, against corruption, and today they supported one clan with all their soul, great corruption, including in parliament, and supported all that the country had fought for ten years until it got rid of it. And that's why, first of all, I want to say that this majority is politically totally illegal, it's politically pointless, because it doesn't stop, as it's supposed to, in civilized democracies, for most people in society. Because when the two left-wing political parties radically changed their preferences without warning the people who voted for them, it is no longer the legal political majority. The second, from a legal point of view, is a totally illegal grouping, because the Constitution and 30 days have passed the creation of a coalition, because this chaos cannot be called a coalition, and 60 days since the resignation of the government have passed. That is, the President's legal basis is for everyone to choose this congruence in a timely manner, which is nothing good, as soon as the return of Bushmism does not bring the country back. Moreover, this majority does not have geopolitical legitimacy, because when they elected the President, when they elected the majority to Parliament, they set a very different course for Ukraine. This is the path of internal reforms that are oriented towards European civilization, and this is certainly our move towards a European community. Moreover, these are profound reforms in the country itself that are linked to the eradication of corruption and the eradication of all that is involved in the transformation of politics into business. And so, of course, this creation is illegal. And lastly, it's morally illegal, because morally it can't be something that's built on big corruption, huge, on a scale that even this selling parliament hasn't seen. And certainly, what is now mixed up in great money and great treachery will never bring happiness or independence or wealth to our nation. And that's why I want the real patriots of Ukraine to hear that the coup in parliament today can be stopped by the President, acting within the Constitution and declaring the elections for the term, or by the national MPs, 150 people's deputies, who can put their mandates in place and then they're illegal. Our faction is ready to do so and we turn to the faction “Our Ukraine” to take such a step for Ukraine and for its future. Because today, not only are the values of the revolution betrayed, but today our acquisitions of the 91st year -- the independence of our country -- are being betrayed. And that is why we are opposed to this and to all the patriots of the country, and we urge them not to accept it under any circumstances. We're with you, as always, and you can fight us at this difficult moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. I ask you all to respect every thought, whatever its meaning. Anatoly Kinakh, please, has a word from “Our Ukraine. ” Then who will be the Communists? Zybenko. Simonenko? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u8	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Invitations, Honorable Presidium! I would invite all of us to move away from emotions, ultimatums and personal ambitions and to mention, first of all, our shared responsibility to the Ukrainian people and to the Ukrainian state. Ukraine's growing socio-economic and socio-political risks do not require further arguments. We have allowed new provisions of the Constitution to be introduced in Ukraine in a chaotic and unsystematic manner since 1 January 2006, without legislative justification in the absence of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. “On opposition”, a series of laws on relations between central and local authorities. Since October 2005, the Constitutional Court has not been operating in the state, which in the context of constitutional reform must be a higher arbitrator in the context of the conformity of the laws of the Supreme Council, the President's decrees, the decisions of the Government to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. That is, there is a real threat of balancing the state system of power, of deepening the phenomenon of legal degilism. And this certainly affects all the components of the socio-economic development of the state and the well-being of our citizens. Therefore, the restoration of the activities of Ukraine’s supreme legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, regardless of the political colour represented in the Supreme Council, should be our priority. But, dear friends, the restoration of effective national legislative executive power can only be based strictly on the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, legislation and the Rules. The government will never be effective and meet the demands of society in the context of its transparency, professional responsibility if it is built on the basis of personal political, official and political ambitions. Therefore, it is essential for us that every step of Parliament should be in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules and meet the requirements of society. In Ukraine there must be an effective authority that works for people. As a result, we welcome today’s move to declare an anti-crisis coalition clear from the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules. Based on this normative faction, the faction of the political party block “Our Ukraine” from today officially in the minority, i.e. in opposition. As a result, we need to take the following steps: rebuild the modern democratic basis of the relationship between most coalitions and the minority opposition in parliament. In view of the fact that opposition must have control functions, the authorities must be controlled, including by society. And we need, based on the priorities of national, national interests, to rebuild the steps that need to be taken today to solve the deep problems. As a result, we will work in this direction, including reminding us that June 1st is past the deadline for the adoption of the 2007 budget resolution. Very deep systemic problems related to energy security, reduced price competitiveness of Ukrainian products, increased negative external trade surpluses. The huge problems that relate to the new level of prices and tariffs, and we need to take a set of measures to prevent the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy and the standard of living of citizens. Therefore, the position of the faction “Our Ukraine” will be rigidly based on the requirements of the Constitution and regulations, the priority of the Ukrainian people, and we will do everything we can to make Ukraine develop as a rightful democratic state with a modern, competitive market economy. And regardless of political color, we urge that every step we take be directed in the interests of our people and our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u9	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u10	Respectable voters, radios, TV sets, respected colleagues! First. The anti-crisis coalition has been legitimate since 7 July, as we have stated in this Hall and for more than 10 days the work of the Supreme Council has deliberately been blocked entirely for other political purposes. Here I would like to state that Yushchenko broke up the early orange coalition, and now I have taken all my practical steps to support certain political forces for the collapse of the anti-crisis coalition. They didn't make it. Second. By blocking the work of the Supreme Council, Our Ukraine and BUIT do not respect the will of their constituents, because they have failed to resolve and fulfil the promises they have made to the electorate without having been able to form an orange coalition, unable to share the portfolios in this terrible three months of the “goat” on the Supreme Council, they today exclude the possibility of other voters, believing in other political forces, forming another coalition and taking practical action on the administration of the country. This defines the position of the failed coalition in that they were unable to manage the country properly. So the oranges in the fight for the portfolios have forgotten about the people, and Ukraine has three months of powerlessness today. I would like to propose, especially to those speakers and speakers who have proposed to mandate today, today would be a courageous step, to present mandates and to allow work and to wait for 20 to 30 people to be there to also establish mandates, and this faction to present mandates today. That's a first. Second. By making a statement similar to that of the Supreme Council, I have already called on you gentlemen from the BUT faction, please remove from your lists all oligarchs and all “snouts”, because everyone else on your list represents exactly the interests of “snoutsm”. And don't fool the people of Ukraine for God's sake. It's familiar to know who your Kuchma interests are. Once again, I wish to recall that the main reason for this struggle in Parliament is the transfer of real power from the corrupt oligarchic environment to the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. We, members of the anti-crisis coalition, have put forward concrete proposals, as we see the country's continued management. Yes, indeed, among the priority measures is the order of tariffs and prices, which, of course, is the slaughtering suffering. And today the villagers are expecting real help from us in the cleaning area. This is preparation for the winter, because today, the Acting Cabinet of Ministers is not preparing for the winter. It's both natural and budgeting. The anti-crisis coalition has, in the end, offered to turn to its people, which is something that is displeased by those who are fighting in Parliament today against the normalization of the work of the Supreme Council. Third. I am personally convinced that the President must, in the end, fulfil his constitutional duty today and immediately submit a candidature to the Prime Minister for consideration by the Supreme Council. Then, in the end, he will at least take off the accusation that he is a gravedigger and an orange coalition, and today he is trying to destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine in the name of the corrupt oligarchy environment of Yushchenko. Fourth. The anti-crisis coalition, the anti-crisis coalition and you, distinguished colleagues, are trying to accuse democracy of breaking up and thus try to intimidate our voters again. What is it? We stand for parliamentary democracy first and foremost with you. And the oranges today impose democracy on us in America. Of course, why is it now imposed on society that the idea that we are allegedly an anti-crisis coalition is destroying democracy in Ukraine. Because Bush gave an appropriate signal and stated that democracy in States in the post-Soviet area was different and did not like it. For Americans, democracy in third countries is a democracy like Iraq. That's what we're being led to today, that's why thousands of people are being taken to the streets just to determine their personal ambitions and to share their portfolios in the clash of people today. The Communist faction of the anti-crisis coalition will work on the problems that we have identified as priority measures and practices today will do everything to ensure that Parliament actually forms the executive power, so that Parliament is responsible for the work of the executive branch, together with the executive branch, to solve the problems that concern Ukrainian citizens. And the Communist faction proposes to proceed with the election of committee leadership and the formation of committees, and the President requires the nomination of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u11	Representatives of all the factions represented in Parliament spoke. I'm still making you all an offer, in my speeches to accept your colleagues as they are. We're all different, we're not all holy, but we're the best, because people voted for us. So let's use that trust and respect each other, I think we need it in Parliament. We will certainly learn that. And finally, I'm just obliged to make some legal clarification, because what's been announced is that we're willing to fold our powers as MPs, stop them, it's really a step and responsible and strong and noble, I believe that could happen, but it doesn't solve anything, because instead of 150, the next 150 will come after the decision of the CEC, which is on the lists of eligible parties. So it's not a step that can provide. In addition, it is necessary for the session room to vote in favour of depriving these deputies of their mandates. Now we need to start discussing the creation, the election of committee heads and other parliamentary leadership. Four factions have already made their proposals and are working now, promised by the Party of the Yulia Party Timoshenko also their proposals. We need to hold a Conciliation Council now to ensure that the balance is proportional on the committees themselves and on the leadership of these committees. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council met, it formed a working group of all factions, and they, in my opinion, worked productively during the day, considered all these issues and seemed to find the best solution. In order to bring him to you as a document option, some nuances still need to be adjusted. So using this need, and referring to it, I now announce a break of about a minute 45 for the Conciliation Council to meet in 10 minutes, and also so that the anti-crisis coalition can now hold meetings in the session room. A break of about 45 minutes is announced. If there's a bit of a delay, you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-18-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, the task force is putting an end to the proposals for the distribution of committees and the appointment of the heads of these committees, the governing board. The work is getting a little longer because it's more complicated than it seems at first sight. In about half an hour, it'll all be over in an hour, so I have to call a break until 4:00, close the morning session, and announce that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 3:00. So once again, the morning session is closed. The evening session will begin at 4 p.m. and there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 3 p.m. Thank you.
