ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, guests, guests, journalists! Deputies, please prepare for registration. Please. There's 420 already. Please register. [[10:00:37]] There are 431 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Today is our colleague Vitalia Jakovitch's birthday. Let's give him a warm welcome. [[Applause]] And we wish for success, first of all, in the international arena, since he answers from Parliament, he heads the International Liaison Committee, foreign affairs. According to the 25th article of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, reports. If you would like to take part in this, please sign up. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Taran, prepare Matvienka. To whom is the word? Who? Oleg Belarus, please. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u2	Dear Head, Honourable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a landmark decision, acknowledging the genocide of the Ukrainian people as Holodomor. For the first time in human history, the totalitarian steel regime used food as a weapon of mass destruction against its people, against unarmed children, the elderly, and women. And today the world is looking gratefully at Ukraine, which is demonstrating new standards -- the conscience of the people, and the conscience of the Supreme Council is restored. This opens up great and good prospects for our nation’s development. Today we can talk about the budget, the tariffs, the prices for gas and electricity, but we need to think about the main, the big, the promising development of Ukraine. From this rostrum we have already proposed the creation of a state commission to develop a national development strategy for Ukraine to the depth of the horizon for 30 years. And we can talk more about the content of this strategy. From our point of view, and the faction in the person of many scientists - the national MPs - is working on this topic. The content of this strategy should be Ukraine’s global integration and continuous development. The beginnings of this work have been established. Regrettably, in the recent period, a number of subjective and objective reasons have been halted in the development of our country’s national sustainable development programme, and it is necessary to return to this issue. Most of the world has come this way. No integration into the European Union, no reintegration of Ukraine into European systems and structures can be spoken of until we make such a strategic decision. I want to present to you today the book “Global Sustainable Development”, which we have published in Russian and Ukrainian, in order for the people's deputies to become better acquainted with this important problem. Ukraine's perspective is a constant socio-economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u3	Yes, please, Matthew. Mikola's Jacob, please. School to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u4	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction of the "Our Ukraine" bloc. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I have the honour not only as a national deputy, but as the only member of the National Commission of the International Council of Monuments and Historic Places, in which associated organizations with UNESCO, to make a statement to the Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, supported by the National Movement of the People’s Party of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Christian Democratic Union. The National Reserves “Sofia Kyivska” and “Kievo-Pecherska Lavra” focus on invaluable monuments of Ukrainian history and culture. Thanks to the dedicated work of scientists, restorators, and museums, these monuments have been preserved from destruction during the difficult times of totalitarian disaster, now serving as a symbol of Ukraine in the world. The Ukrainian State is responsible not only for the present and future generations of Ukrainians, but also for the world community, since the complexes of the so - called reserves are included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Regrettably, today these monuments have been threatened by the thoughtless use of their religious communities, whose clergy and believers often fail to appreciate the historical and artistic significance of the objects at their disposal. According to scientists, religious services have already caused irreparable damage to the unique interiors of the Church of Cyril of the 12th century and the Church of Andrew of the 18th century. The uncontrollable economic activity of the monastery, such as that of Lower Lavra, has led to the destruction of unique archaeological layers, the reconstruction and destruction of the interiors of Baroque and Classicalism, the intense collapses in caves that threaten their continued existence in general. Regrettably, the hierarchy and clergy of religious denominations, and, above all, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, ignore the recommendations of scientists and demand that the facilities of the National Reserves be placed in their complete possession by moving museums and scientific institutions away from here. Our great concern is that today’s government is ready to meet these requirements, denouncing in fact the invaluable memories of our past of reconstruction and destruction. This is reflected in the commission given by the last Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, and other Deputy Prime Minister. Our parties emphasize that there must be a reasonable compromise between the claims of believers of different churches and between the needs of society as a whole. Our parties demand that the Ukrainian government stop the shameful practice of paying off objects of national and world acquisition for the electoral support provided by the church to individual parties of today’s ruling coalition. Please consider this an official request to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u5	Andrew Schlell. Prepare Alexander Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u6	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that, in recent times, indeed, the situation in Ukraine has begun to deteriorate significantly, to worsen in all directions, in all areas. I'm not going to stop at that, I'm going to stop at a very short statistic that happened, especially in Lviv. In a month, there was an attempted murder, murder, and attempted murder of entrepreneurs working hard enough in the territory of Lviv. They worked peacefully all the time, regardless of the problems that existed and existed both in Ukraine and in Lviv, especially, but they survived in these critical times. And only the change in power, the change in those who ignore human rights, human life, human dignity, has led to what has recently been said loud enough, the murder of one of the famous entrepreneurs in Lviv. The person who owns an enterprise that controls 35% of the European Christmas beauty market is a very powerful market, an honest, white, open-ended, underprivileged market, which ensures that taxes not only come to Ukraine, but also an increase in the rating of a country that drives its product to a huge number of countries around the world. This order of 75 countries is a constant consumer of Ukrainian products. Neither the previous authorities nor the Kuchma regime have been able to do anything, but the cynical murder at the company's passing factory, I will stress once again, an entrepreneur who has nothing to do with anything but business, only the only thing, he was also a member of the "Fatherland" party, a member of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" in Lviv. Perhaps it was a judgment for him, perhaps it was the cause of such a cynical murder. I don't know if she'll ever be investigated to the end of this matter, or not, but the fact remains a fact. So far, it's not been properly reported, it's been the third murder. Before that, there was a hit on the contractor, and then there was an attack on the entrepreneur. What unites them? It unites the membership of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" in Lviv. We talked about it, and there were statements about it, but I want this situation not to be confused by today's power, central power, no, therefore, lionish, no, by the appropriate law enforcement structures -- the militia, the prosecutor's office, which very often instead of investigating crimes, all their efforts are to shut them down and forget them. We remember them, remember them, and remind everyone on whom it depends that these crimes will be investigated. Not now, not later, under another authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u7	Alexander Borzich, please. To prepare Bogchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to raise a very important problem for the villagers. This is about additional financial support for farmers. This is the cancellation of the closure of the agricultural market in the export-import part of the goods. It is meant that under insufficient budgetary funding, it is possible to engage individual mechanisms for real financial support to farms by establishing well-founded customs rates and restrictions on the quota of agricultural products. Let's take the sunflower. The problem here is that the introduction of an export duty on sunflower seeds of 17% has significantly limited the ability to deliver it to foreign partners at economically viable prices. At the same time, the price in the internal market for the seeds of this culture is virtually not rising, and it's 900-1000 dollars per tonne, which on average is 50-70 dollars less than the world's prices. In such a situation, the production of sunflower seeds from profiteers has become less profitable. It may be said that the act of the Ukrainian Law “On import duty rates for certain types of oil crops resulted in the creation of artificial monopolies and placed the peasants in full dependence on the prices and conditions dictated by the processing enterprises. Thus, many calls have been made from farms to cancel the export duty on sunflower seeds. The second question is the unwarranted quota of agricultural products. Unfortunately, the country has established a strict price limit on this product by introducing different quotas, which is not applied in any other field. Of course, for the country’s first needs, sufficient grains and other forms of agricultural production must be left to the State resources. But the question is, what is the point of setting quotas for the product that remains in the farms in sufficient quantities to be implemented? The establishment of quotas for the 2006 crop of food wheat in connection with its limited resources is understandable. However, to do so is essential for the seeds of the same barley, corn, and even fodder grains that are superfluous. I believe that under existing economic conditions, prices for agriculture should be marketable as well as for other industries. No less painful problem with the transportation of imported equipment. In the last five years, 22,000 foreign tractors have been imported into Ukraine for 1.7 billion dollars. These include 170 million dollars spent on customs, which increases the cost. Again, a peasant suffers. So there is an urgent need to cancel import duties primarily for tractors with more than 200 horsepower that do not yet produce Ukrainian businesses and that have an acute need for our agriculture. In view of this, I consider it appropriate to assign the Cabinet of Ministers to consider these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Please, Bogchuk gives the word to Sergey Redfoot. Prepare Korja Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. A faction of socialists has already had to raise questions about the creation of the Ukrainian State Committee on Veterans, War, and Military Services. As the central authority of the executive branch, such a state committee existed and was eliminated in the past year by decree of the President. I want to point out that this is where the assistants founded our President, because the decree was signed on April 20th, on Hitler's birthday. The civil union of war veterans, the military service, has been plagued by constant anxiety over the confusion of their issues. And in solving the serious problems of ministries and departments, they nod at each other, and around the military hospital and specific sanatoriums, for example, Semashka’s name in Simeiza began to be a real dumpster. At the same time, three and a half million of our citizens, burned by war, and 600,000 victims of war, Nazi persecution, a multimillion-million-dollar army of military veterans, homeless officers need special treatment and care, more respectful care. That is what world experience requires. I understand we're a long way from America, but there are eight existing ministries of 1 of them, war veterans. And his work was strengthened just last year, and I'm paying attention to 79 billion dollars. The Socialist faction therefore suggests that the issue of the establishment of the Veteran State Committee and its determination to oblige the government to formalize the decision be considered. Realistically, this can be done by combining scattered functions, active and eliminated organizations and structures. Then it will be possible not only to centralize the money flows but also to control the budget for institutions such as mutual understanding and reconciliation funds and the social protection of war veterans, the Georgia Commission on Memory Perpetuation, the commission on former guerrillas, the edition of the Book of Memory, the National Centre for the Adaptation of Military Servants on Stock. And of course, this structure is going to shut down a huge layer of heroic patriotic work with young people. The Supreme Council Secretariat registered a draft decree prepared by Deputy Adam Martinyuk. Please speed up this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u11	Yes, thank you. Tomenko. Cory's handing over to Santa Tomenka, please. Get Kirilchuku ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the campaign, to the elections that take place in the system of local self-government. You know, we have a bunch of district cities, a bunch of cities and district subordinations, and district centers going through this test of democracy, and it's kind of like looking at today's local self-government in context of an election campaign that's got two problems. The first problem is the headless cities. And the second problem is the business of the court. The headless cities were created because many national deputies decided to become national deputies and city heads at the same time. And what we have in some elections is 20-30 percent is the reaction of our society to such a high democracy. The Elections Act was allowed. I think once the election is over, it's worth it to our profile committee to look at these election campaigns and to make it impossible for people to go to the Supreme Council at the same time, to the city council, to the local council, and so on, because it's not just a waste of money, and it's no longer a perception of the territorial community of this problem. The second problem that's arisen, I call this a legal business issue. It is clear to the local judges that this case can be actively earned, and if you analyze the decisions of the territorial commissions and the courts that have taken place and are taking place, you will see that there is no basis for serious action under such decisions. You know, in Cherkas, this fashion for the night decisions of the territorial commissions in support of the courts appeared when the most popular authority candidate came out of the election campaign the night before the election campaign began. Unfortunately, in this election campaign, Kirovograd held the Cerkas estaphet, and a popular poll candidate was withdrawn at 3 p.m. in a few hours after the election campaign began. I am absolutely convinced that this is about business, there is no legal basis for such decisions. And I hope that, on the one hand, the Attorney General's Office will respond to the decisions of such members of the territorial commission, and I know that there are three criminal cases in Cherkas, so I understand that there must be such criminal cases in Kirovograd. And I'd like to. In order for the Supreme Court to hold an appropriate meeting and to examine how the courts operate in this particular situation. Today, for example, in Poltava, four courts were completed for the registration of a candidate who not only defeated Andrija Madkovsky but gained twice as much as the person who took second place. What, then, does the court have to do in a situation where a person has conquered by an absolute majority? So once again, I would like to draw the attention of the CEC and the Supreme Court to draw conclusions today on the elections that took place in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u13	Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk gives the word to Basil the Wood, please. After him Mironenko passes the word Nenetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum, members of the anti-crisis coalition have repeatedly accused the Ukrainian rebel army of fighting for the independence of the Ukrainian state. We will provide you with the correct information about the activities of UPA. Today, the fact that armed opposition against German invaders and the anti - Soviet armed struggle under the auspices of the Ukrainian rebel army was a national phenomenon is complete. During the years of the war and the postwar period, there were between 300 and 400,000 people through the Ukrainian rebel army, hundreds of thousands helping the rebels. UPA became a formidable military force that fought against German invaders and later against Soviet invaders. On July 21st and 25th, 43rd, the third extraordinary U.N. Assembly took place in Ternopolska, Brazil. The assembly said that the UN is fighting against imperialism and any empire, so it has both Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union as its opponent. The new arrival of the Soviet government has met the Ukrainian population, given the repression of 39-41 years, hostile. Indeed, in the 44th year, in all parts of Western Ukraine, party and penal authorities continued their 39-41-year-old radiation, which was accompanied by large-scale terror. Cities and villages have been covered by a dense intelligence network of state-of-the-art sex networks. The main mass of the agency was used to discredit the Ukrainian rebel army, through the creation of special units of the NCAF, the NCSB, which had changed into a form of UPA and attacked the peaceful population. The facts of the crimes of these groups are now being used actively by Communists and pro-Russian political forces of an independent Ukraine. For example, NKVDSTA CERNOVA’s task force was operating in the Demidiv district of Ravenna and had 50 fighters, well-armed, wearing UPA uniforms with tridents on their hats. To avoid the suspicion that they are not gangsters, they killed Soviet activists from both the arrival and the locals, heads of rural councils, girls, teachers and nurses from Eastern Ukraine, not to mention UPA soldiers and their families. A sadist and murderer, Saphat Panasuk, of another special task force, committed terrible crimes. Because of this, another evidence with German invaders is the trophy documents of the Gestapo and the overturns that were presented by the Soviet side in the Nuremberg process. The U.N. Gangers were involved in preparing a rebellion in the rear of the German army. That it is the nationalists of Western Ukraine who are threatening German domination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u15	Olena Netecka, please follow her, Shevchuk, passes the word Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u16	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs. The members of the Party of the Regions have been forced to state the threat to the stability of Ukraine because of attempts by the Presidential forces to restore strong political opposition at the level of the executive vertical. We have to remind ourselves, today's presence in power is not allowed in the field. A recommendation from abroad does not go down, but it depends on the outcome of the elections to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, politicians who have come to power as a result of the pressure of the street almost daily confirm their inability to work within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Consider the appointment of new governors on February 4, 2005. The proper procedure for appointing governors, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, was not followed. The names of the heads were read in a hurry from a sheet in the Parliamentary Hall. And this sacred simplicity was to characterize the desire to create a new European authority, honest and professional. The revolutionary slogans have long been dusted. However, ignoring the law remains a permanent tradition. The unprecedented situation with Governor Kharkishte, whose district council on June 3rd expressed mistrust, but the president has not yet released him. The court's epic with the ex-governor of the Kyiv region, the last conflict with the Governor of the Summary Nina the Harkawa Ministry of Justice has qualified the actions of the President of Ukraine, such as those which conflict with the Constitution and which have been adopted with the excess of powers. For people who don't understand the subtleties of the political process, let's just say, the Sumskie area is determined to put under the care of the audited personnel from Khrórovka, the former head of the agro-firm in the President's village, the head of the “Our Ukraine” district organization on the Sumstynia. The transition to the opposition of the People's Union of Our Ukraine creates an absurd situation in the executive branch of power, for most of the leaders of local administrations belong to this political force. It's a two-powered country that splits up, it's not able to run socio-economic processes responsibly. A party of regions will not allow opposition and political struggle to bring the country into legal chaos, governance anarchy, and economic poverty. We demand that the President abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and exercise his constitutional powers. We also urge all representatives of the opposition in the authorities to be consistent, to write statements of dismissal, in carrying out the decisions of their political forces. Being in power while in political opposition to the government is immoral. The Antichrist Coalition is capable of ensuring the effective functioning of the entire executive vertical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u17	Thank you. Yuri Gnatkevich, please. To prepare, Kuzmenko gives the word of Bogchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u18	Yuri Gnatkević, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. 10 days ago, there was a rally of representatives of the public and the armed forces in the village of Bazar in Zitomirsk. In this village 85 years ago, a group of soldiers from the army of the Ukrainian People’s Republic came into captivity to the Kotovsky Horse Corps. The captives refused to take sides with the cats and all were shot without exception. There were 359. Kotovsky, a famous recidivist thief, joined the Bolsheviks in his time. His sword struck not one Ukrainian head. Kotovsky was the initiator of the creation of the USR of the Autonomous Republic of Moldova, to which the original Ukrainian lands were artificially integrated. Had it not been for Kotovsky’s initiative, the land of present - day Transnistria would have been part of Ukraine. At the rally, I was asked to address all the city’s heads in Ukraine with a request to rename Kotovsky Street in its place. The royal and Kremlin totalitarian regimes left behind in Ukraine their toponymics, which glorify their generals, state leaders of the Stalin era, the organizers of the Holodomor, the smoking and the destruction of temples. Ukrainian cities today resemble Leninism-Stalinism Museums, while this teaching seems to be denied even by the communists, calling on workers not to a class struggle, but to fraternize with capital that was manifested in a close union of capitalists and communists in a single parliamentary faction. The map of Kiev proudly contains the street of Kirilenka, the same head of the Supreme Tribunal, who, according to Soso Jugashvili, sent nearly the entire Lenin Guard into the world. There is the street of Polupanova – the same commander of the crew of sailors who, after a discussion of the students under the Krutas, broke into Kiev by slaughtering thousands of kyans who wore embroidered shirts or spoke Ukrainian or were on the head of the settler. We openly abuse Lenin’s memory. In the former Cossack capital of Zaporozhye, we have eight objects called Lenin’s Monument, Lenin’s Prospect, Lenin’s Port, Lenin’s Dniproges, Lenin’s Park, Lenin’s Lake, Lenin Island. Let's think about it. That Lenin was the most famous Ukrainian hemman! Participants in the rally in the village of Bazar appeal to the city head of Kotovska to initiate a return of his old name, Berzula, and to all the city heads of Ukraine, with the proposal to start giving Ukrainian cities a truly Ukrainian face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u19	Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u20	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! Reforming the economy is a really difficult and painful process. First of all, it needs the perfectness of legislation and proper monitoring of processes by public authorities. Because it's not in either plane and it's not in the other plane yet. There is no order yet, and it is no wonder that the authorities of the prosecutor's office and the court are overwhelmed by complaints about the unlawful actions of those who are trying to enrich themselves, at all costs, by the acquisition of objects that have recently belonged to the State. In its time, the state-owned “Ternopil sugar plant“ Divilla”, which was renowned for its high quality production, was transformed into an open stock company. In time, the VAT, which had production capacity, became part of the ZAT. And that's because 55 percent is government property. It quickly became clear that the concentration of efforts in the processing sector, which was either the most painfully affected by the collapse of the agrarian economy, the collapse of agricultural production, the reduction of technical crops, was an unwarranted step and tried once to leave a powerful VAT uncomfortably for itself. But tricksters and swindlers who have just succeeded in uniting themselves in order to feed on better power companies. You'll tell me why. There is a court for that. Indeed, the Ternopil Regional Court of Management has at one time violated the case of declaring that the congregation’s decision to set up a ZAT was invalid. But the implementation of the case was put to a halt very quickly. Because of that, it seemed. delicate detail. It turns out that in the course of the study of the material of the case, the court found two different protocols according to the content of the same general congregations of VAT shareholders, the Sugar factory “Dividation”. The court then concluded that the shareholders ’ congregations, who had made a fundamental decision regarding the continuation of the business, could not be considered to be competent, and the record of those congregations was not a legal fact and could not be considered to be evidence of the will of the higher body of that association. This makes it impossible to establish the subject of a dispute. The court sent the congregation’s records to the local prosecutor’s office because he saw a crime scene in these forgeries. What to do in this case will even be handled by a law student, but the Ternopil Public Prosecutor's Office did not understand, sending him to another criminal case first, and then, stopping and closing. Today, I want this criminal case investigated by the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we've run out of time to announce our applications and messages. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. For information on participation in the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the 27th plenary meeting of the International Assembly of SND States Parties and other actions of the Assembly held in November this year, the head of the delegation Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich is given. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u22	Honorary colleagues, according to the Supreme Council Rules, have approved the composition of a permanent delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. I was elected head of our permanent delegation at the organizational assemblies, and four deputies were appointed, representing all the factions of Parliament. The delegation appointed its representatives in all ten standing committees of the Assembly. Dr. Viacheslav Boguslayev is confirmed by the head of the Permanent Commission of the Inter-Parliamentary SND Assembly on Science and Education. Thus, the permanent delegation is fully organized and participates in all the Assembly’s activities. This was made possible by the political will of the Anti-Crist Coalition to intensify cooperation with the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the SND and, above all, in the interests of the State of Ukraine. Here is a list of only some model laws, legal acts considered in the IPA with the participation of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during November 15 - 16, this year. The name of only some of them is: Model Criminal Code on Combating Terrorism and Extremism, “On Countering the Financing of Terrorism”, “On Public Protection”, “On the Public Prosecutor’s Office”, “On Social Partnership”, “Transport activities”, “On Freedom of Conscience, Religion, Religious Organizations”, “On Self-Governmental Organizations”, “On the Referendum”, “Basic Directions for the Formulation of Social Policy in Powers”. [[in the original language]] Well, don't these efforts deserve at least a careful study in our Parliament? Note that in just the years before the Assembly, more than 200 model legislative acts have been considered. So not using such a collective experience is simply a sin. Perhaps there would be fewer mistakes when we consider draft laws of Ukraine. The delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament, which began with the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk took part in St. Petersburg from 15 to 17 November in all the actions of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. There have been meetings of the IPA Council, the 27th plenary meeting, the four standing commissions, the meeting of the MPA Parliamentary Delegation of States Parties to the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space, the joint meeting of the IPA Council and the Heads of Law and the Special Services of the CIS States Parties on the Fight against Terrorism and Extremism, the International Scientific and Practical Conference “Improving the Cooperation of the SND States in Countering Current Challenges and Threats of Security”. It should be noted that the MPA board of directors of parliamentary delegations took part in the next meeting. That is, there is high respect for this institution of interparliamentary and interest in the issues under discussion. The 27th plenary meeting of the MPA took place on 16 November. The First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, speaking at the plenary meeting of the Assembly, expressed the wish of the newly created Supreme Council and, above all, the Anti-Crist Coalition, to participate actively in the work of the MPA, to share freely their legal experience and to make extensive use of the vast intellectual potential of the Assembly, created by the collective work of representatives of parliaments of the cooperative countries. Interest was generated by a joint meeting of the IASC, the MPA and the heads of law enforcement and the special services of the SND member states on the fight against terrorism and extremism organized by the SND State Cooperation Programme in the fight against terrorism, other violent manifestations of extremism for 2005-2007. It was noted that the international terrorist network and our indigenous political extremists are openly manipulating people's feelings and emotions, trying to destabilize social relations, the progressive development of our nations. Following an international scientific and practical conference, Deputy Attorney General Tetjan Korniakov of Ukraine shared the experience of the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, including the issue of ensuring the rule of law in the field of environmental, technological security. The reporter suggested specific directions for the interaction of the law enforcement authorities of the SND countries in these and other areas of law enforcement. This was very helpful and positive during her performance. Regrettably, however, honourable colleagues, and that Ukraine's power structures, apart from the Attorney General's Office, were not delegated to participate in the high-level conference. Special attention should be paid to the meeting of the MPA parliamentary delegation of the States parties to the agreement on the creation of a single economic space. In this regard, Ukraine is facing a rather serious situation: We are not being accepted by the European Union, and we can simply be late for the EP. Such a stand on a crossroads can end in great sorrow, losing our people, our nation. If we're not just being taken somewhere where we're not expected, but we need to go where the doors are open to us, we need to go into the only economic space. And for us, it's gas prices and other energy, it's a common labour market, it's free movement of people and goods. The central question was how to work on projects of international treaties to ensure the formation and functioning of a single economic space. Work in this direction is progressing successfully. In January 2006 and the city of Astani, the summit of Heads of State adopted a decision on the signing of 38 instruments called for the establishment of a legal framework for the formation of a customs union. The Heads of State of the Quartet reached an agreement on the continuation of the EPP in the form of “3+1”, referring to Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia plus Ukraine. So I'd like to pay attention, my dear colleagues, that Ukraine may again find itself at a crossroads and on the coast if it takes an unprincipled position on the protection of national interests. The status of the development of draft international agreements and other legal instruments to ensure the formation of the EP has been considered. It is noted that the list of international legal instruments from the formation of the EP includes 86 treaties, 38 of which consists of a first-line package, which ensures the establishment of a standard customs union base within a single economic space. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian side is in agreement with 36 with 38 documents, and first of all, this concern is due to the fact that our party is not participating in a contract to create an EP commission, in which it is virtually taking on as an observer only. The EP Commission should form the basis for the establishment of a system of economic relations between the parties, the regulation of the customs union and the multilateral regime of free trade, the formation of a common customs tariff, the coordination of the activities of the participants, the formation of the EPP in all directions. At this stage, we only take part in the development and signing of 14 documents. We are wasting our time and initiative in defending Ukraine’s interests. The main problem and the threat is that we will join the structure with our charter, not as equal participants. Today we need to reach an agreement on the Single Economic Space Commission. Today we need to take an active part in creating and shaping principles of competitive policy, the only competition rules in part of equal access to natural resources as a factor of production. Agreements need to be reached on the only rules governing the activities of natural monopolies, as well as agreements on the only principles governing the activity of natural monopolies in part of equal access to goods produced by the subjects of these monopolies. So the program is very big, very tense. Because today we also need to talk about arrangements, the only principles for granting industrial subsidies in part of the state’s share in the capital of economic entities. Work in this regard continues. In the harmonisation stage, there are documents such as the customs tariffs of the States participating in the EP, the list of tariffs and preferential countries, customs and tariff policies in relation to third countries, customs rules and procedures, and much more. The Ukrainian side shared, made proposals that the parliamentary anti-crisis coalition would be ready to engage more actively in the integration processes of the EP. In our view, the advantages and benefits of the single economic space, when the structure is operational, will depend in many ways on the effective work of our Supreme Council with you. Dear colleagues, regarding the problems that have arisen. First of all, the amount of information and analysis provided by the delegation. It should be noted that only half of Parliament's committees have responded to the request for delegations to draw conclusions on the draft model laws, that is, help us to work there properly. The other one. In particular, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has not made any proposals regarding our position in the Western Assembly. The materials presented by the Ministry on the last day, by the way, before the departure of our delegation, are only about the fact that the Supreme Council is not part of the MPA SND and therefore has no obligation to it. So the foreign ministry is completely ignoring national issues. What recommendations can be made? First and foremost, the Supreme Council should be determined to change its attitude toward participation in the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. The Anti-Crist Coalition and Parliament as a whole should take decisive steps towards forming a single economic space, provided that Ukraine is a full participant in this process. Third, the legal unit of the apparatus, together with the secretariats of the committees, must take steps to ensure a systematic approach to cooperation. To sum up, once again, I would like to state that it is in the form of an inter-parliamentary assembly of the countries of the SND that Ukraine must defend its national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. We need to include in the agenda and decide on the draft Law on the Oriental List of Property Rights Subjects to Privatization in 2007. Allow me literally a few words as co-chairs of the 2007 State Budget Working Commission. It is at the suggestion of this working committee, headed by the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council and the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. The committee includes representatives of each faction plus representatives of two professional committees, the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Finance and Banking. At the suggestion of the working group, once again, a large part of the State Budget Bill, namely the issue of taxation for the following year and the issue of privatization for the following year, has been removed from the State Budget Body, the State Budget 2007 Act. Tax - related issues have already been discussed with you. Unfortunately, the President has returned the veto. The committee takes into account, today perhaps we will continue to consider this issue, we need to solve another problem, namely, to remove from the body the 2007 State Budget Bill issues related to the privatisation of objects for 2007, which serves as an income part of the government budget for some 10 billion dollars. That is why we, honourable colleagues, need to address this issue expeditiously, as they are directly linked to the adoption of the State Budget Act, and we are already violating certain deadlines set by the Budget Code. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda today of the Act on the Oriental List of Property Rights Subjects to Privatisation in 2007, Bill No. 2550. Please vote. [[10:46:59]] For 218. The factions. By factions, please, the Party of Regions – 175, Block of Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine 3, Socialists – 31, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 5. Please, I understand we haven't voted in a while. To whom, in order to return to the vote, please vote. [[10:47:38]] For 222 Factions: Region Party – 183, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPI – 29, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 4. Please log in from the faction with a motive per minute. I repeat, don't direct me from the session hall. Sign up and say why shout. You'll be able to say that from the microphone. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For the first time in this year, we removed from the draft budget as a separate bill a list of state-owned property objects that should be privatized to enable the state budget to be filled in part of privatisation. And this bill agrees with the government, agreed to by the Economic Policy Committee, which was also discussed by the Privatization Supervisory Commission, and today the co-report of the Privatisation Supervisory Commission will be presented to the Supreme Council today. If someone is supposed to accept this bill only in the first reading, if there are any observations on specific subjects, we can take these suggestions into account for the second reading, both as regards deletion and inclusion. I ask you very much to support this bill. It is a resource base of the 2007 state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u25	Yes, please, Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u26	Thank you. I would like to take the floor to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u27	Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I point out to everyone in the room that twice this law was not included and not supported. Therefore, it is virtually impossible to go back to his consideration by the rules, not by common sense. And there's a very simple explanation. Because it's not a law, it's a practical proposal to start a privatisation ladder next year. And all I'm surprised is that socialists support this, sorry, non-parliamentary language, privatization lube? Because they treat both polygraph companies and other businesses that are profitable, from which the state receives income. And we have nothing to explain except that the clans that join the anti-crisis coalition want to put these enterprises in their own pocket. Therefore, this law cannot be considered. And the Supreme Council concluded on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u29	Nodmarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u30	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u31	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, you know, takes a principled position on the privatization programme. We assume that, first, basic industries, which is State property, must be identified and that a programme for transfer to corporate and other forms of property management will be clearly defined. What's happening now, respectable voters in the hall? Representatives of the right-wing nationalist forces of the Presidentis do not vote for one simple reason and are now trying to explain their position. The President authorized the inclusion of the Odessa Port Facility and Skretelek in the privatization plan. Therefore, there is now simply a folding of hands and an extension to ensure that these projects are included in the privatization programme. And, by the way, with respect to the derby, you're the right nationalist forces, in the years of the orange plague, and you've been doing it. This was done hard when the Krivorostal was torn apart and sold, and the State lost the largest enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u33	Basil Cusco.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u34	Thank you. Socialist faction, Cusco. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. We will vote in favour of the draft law on the list of enterprises to be privatized. And in second-reading voting, we will insist that privatization be carried out in 2007 according to the method by which Krivorozstal was privatized, that is. auctions as ordered by the Housing Fund. And the second. That enterprises should be privatized to the cost of land. And I'll give you an example. For example, there is a motorcycle Kiev plant on this list. If you just sell it as a factory, it'll be 2-3 million bracelets. And if you sell off the land, there will be half of that programme implemented, which is needed for the budget. We will therefore vote under these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u35	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u36	Jaroslav Kenzior. Please give the word to Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u37	And that's right. Please, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u38	Alexander Bondar, “The Council”, “Our Ukraine” faction. I'm explaining to the communists why the national democratic forces don't vote for this decision. Because the list doesn't give us anything. He's not telling us anything. We are concerned about how privatization will take place next year. Whether the sale of the “Crimsons ” will be the first or the second. And until we get the State Privatization and Legislative Change Programme, we won't be looking at the list. And that's the decision made by the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, by the way, almost all of it. And that's what I suggested to the Economic Policy Committee. And I don't understand why hurry with this list. He gives nothing to the fund, to the government, to the MPs. We need to consider the State Privatization Programme. It's for you if you don't understand the position of right-wing forces in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u39	And now to the active head of the State Property Fund. Please, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you. The privatization program today is in the Cabinet of Ministers. We've given it to all governments several times, we've had to move it, we've had to recycle it, and I think we'll give it to you sometime next Sunday. But in order to adopt today, to implement the 2007 budget and the social programs that ensure their implementation, those social programs require a list of sites for privatization. First. What does that do? You know, I'm constantly being criticized today for failing to implement the privatisation plan in 2007. The decisions of the courts remove objects from privatization. If we approve the list of sites for privatization, then the State Property Fund is conducting privatization, a tender with auction elements with a clear television broadcast, and you will see what the terms of the competition are. And it says: wages, jobs, social benefits for businesses, and necessarily investment and job creation. This will allow the holding fund no longer to be suspended. It's different. Implement the plan to be proven and implemented in 2007. So I'm asking you to put this bill into consideration. Let us consider it in the first reading, sit together, take a look at every item, every proposal, but we need to move today not only the list, but also the budgetary process that is to be followed today by the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is approved in this sessionary hall. We just can't block the budget process. With regard to objects involved, including polygraphs, I want to say that when preparing for privatization, there will be clear plans for these objects, conditions for a competition with the right to save jobs, a guaranteed production base, and an appropriate level of pay for the work set up by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking, let's look at this list, confirm it, and on the following Sunday, the privatization program that's going to go, it's going to go with changes to legislation, it's a much longer process of legislative work that needs at least six months. And with the adoption of this law, we will carry out the budgetary process. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, representatives of each faction have expressed themselves. With motive? I just had a conversation. Representatives of each faction, including yours, Vladimir Juliusovich, spoke. Dear colleagues, once again, why should we adopt such a law? This is related to the fact that at our request and during the first reading of the draft State Budget, and during the working group meetings, we talked about that this is not a rule of the State Budget Act, that this is a part of the State Budget to be passed into a separate law. That's the first one. The other one. I think that's absolutely right of the suggestions that Tsushko made and that I've just talked about Valentina Petrovna about that we don't accept her definitively in the second reading, that we're going to look at her in the first reading, and in the second reading we're going to write down what we're talking about right now that every object needs to be privatized openly, loudly, in those conditions that we've talked about the second time that we've sold the Chrystal and so on and so forth. So once again, let's re-vote the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. I'll put it to a vote. Vote. [[10:58:24]] For 226 Thank you, it's on. I'm inviting you. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 186, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 30, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 4. Please listen to the draft Law on the Indicative List of Property Rights Objects under Privatization in 2007. Reported by Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, head of the State Property Fund. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear voters, representatives of the media! To implement the 2007 budget decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the State Property Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers provides you with a list of objects for privatisation in 2007. First, this list was based on the conclusions of the sectoral ministries, which analysed in detail the work of each sector in order to involve investment in enterprises that would be privatized, since the state today does not have much opportunity to raise these enterprises to be competitive in both the external and the internal market. The list was formed taking into account the proposals made by the Ministry of State directly by the district, district, city administrations, which in the course of the inventory of state-owned property, this is where the work done by the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, we have clearly seen that there are enterprises that need investment and need additional funds today to restore the operations of these enterprises and to fill Ukraine's budget from privatization, as well as from the restoration of these enterprises to fill local suitable budgets. The plugins that are marked include the corresponding lists, which. enterprises that are going to privatize, as well as amending the law on privatization of state property to list objects that are not allowed to privatize, are listed in Lists Nos.1 and No.2, which clearly states that individual objects will be removed from the list of objects prohibited from privatization and will go to corporate with subsequent preparations for privatization. This list, their fates are defined by nominal. This means that there is only a nominal cost that is calculated in direct inventory. And it is fair to suggest that sales of objects will be conducted with auction elements according to the Order of the State Property Fund 1800, which is registered in the Ministry of Justice, which clearly states: “The competition with auction elements provides for the opening of the sale, the openness of the terms of the competition, which clearly indicates the conditions of the competition for an investor or another investor” and, in accordance with the Law “After the privatisation of State property”, the terms of the competition will be written for the relevant period, which will clearly indicate the level of remuneration of the work that investment commitments take in part and modernization, reconstruction, will necessarily be taken into account in the formulation of a schedule for the privatization of environmental issues. You and I have adopted the Environmental Audit Act in the session room, which is what will be stipulated in the terms of the competition. That's all that's pointed out in the Order of 1880 of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. What I'm saying is that this list allows you to fill a budget according to that Supreme Council Order of 10.5 billion dollars. With the opening of the sale, we will also be able to include the cost of the property, taking into account the local location. As for the comments in preparation, I can say that in terms of polygraphing, the detailed analysis that was carried out, and the proposal to include these lists in privatization, they clearly say that we have a large number of enterprises that remain in state-owned ownership, and those small enterprises that today cannot be competitive, will go to privatization in order to restore the work of these enterprises. The scientific expertise department, which clearly refers to the shipbuilding sector, I mean, they're right, they can be counted on second reading. Because shipbuilding enterprises, which were partially privatized, are now operating a pretentious job. For example, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, or the Mikolai International, is clearly stated that ports are not privatized and therefore, in the form of a graphics plan, ports will not be included in the form of competitive conditions, but will only be transferred, can be transferred to the right of use. At the same time, control on the part of the State is maintained. So far, the State Property Fund is doing an appropriate job on those ports, and I think that without changing the Law, article 5 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, the decision on privatization of ports, can not even be considered. Today I have to say that the observation concerning the company Fedosian says that this enterprise is not, is it??That's why he needs to invest. It's included in a list that's going to privatize. In addition, I would like to point out that when preparing for privatization and on each subject the terms of the competition, in accordance with the order of the State Property Fund, the representatives of the Ministry of Industry, the power structures, the representatives of the territorial communities will be included, in accordance with the order of the State Property Fund, the proposal for the representation of the councils of the various levels within the territory of these enterprises will be taken into account. This means that the terms of the competition will be wider, more discussed, and will take into account the position in the form of the terms of the competition for each object individually. It should be understood that today this list has also been formed with regard to the international market for conjuncture in every relevant field. Taking into account that the amount set out in the budget has to be met, such a list has been formed taking into account that when we privatize such objects, we can allocate funds for the implementation of social programs. The remarks regarding the involvement of the privatization of the olenergo are as follows: You and I have adopted the Law on the Management of Public Property Objects in this room. The bill clearly regulated the control mechanism on the part of the State for objects with a share of at least 60 plus one percent, that is, those energy objects that are involved, they only provide for the sale of small shares. 60 plus one stays in the hands of the state. In accordance with the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, the Fund of State Property with the Departments of Public Administration forms a supervisory board, an audit commission, reports quarterly to a company about the work of an enterprise, reports quarterly on the relevant work of the enterprise, and, in the compilation of the results of each year’s work, listing dividends into the budget. So by keeping control on the side of the state, we're allowing the state to be a fully stockholder of the enterprise, and by involving private equity in the business. And then double control, on the part of private entities and on the part of the state, will be constantly directly reviewed and reported on the work of each enterprise. As for the observations that define the sale of small-scale stock packages, I want to say that this is the remainder that we have inherited, and we need to clear it up, because without a control package of shares, the state is practically unable to be a full shareholder. At the same time, we have no suitable dividends, and even shareholders may fail. So I think the next time we sell these small stocks, we're going to get at least a significant amount of money, and we're going to be able to directly regulate the mechanism of a particular sector only directly by antitrust legislation. So what I'm saying is that the State Property Fund has a working group that clearly analyzes the sale of small shares packages, the ones that we have left behind, because the raid against the State Property Fund has started today and is taking turns. So this working group will also analyze before every stock sale, where we have less than 25 percent, we will show directly how these stocks will be sold, and whether they are materially strengthened so that there is no more raid against the holding fund, because we are seeing a trend: two years ago we sold the object, and the court installs illegal privatization and commits to returning the funds to the State Property Fund. This list provides an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u43	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Please, let's ask an interesting question, 10 minutes. Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u45	It's not been easy today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Valentino Petrovna, when you say that the question of privatization of polygraph companies is consistent with those who control it, it's not true. At my address to the State Informatics, the head of Prutnik provided information that they strongly oppose the privatization of political enterprises. Next. Please show me at least one of the polygraph companies listed in this list is a hit. There aren't any. I have information about how businesses work. So taxes, compared to last year's tax rate, have risen 134 percent. Compared to last year, it's 138 percent. The average wage is 141 percent. What is the purpose of privatizing these enterprises? Besides. In Appendix 2 to the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u47	Thank you. I mean, I didn't collect information on every combination. The branch ministry provided information on the field of polygraphing. And I want to say that we have a "Press of Ukraine" that is enough to preserve state control. As for the other printers, I can say that these companies over the year-and-a-half will be uncompetitive. As for, for example, Polygraphbook companies, I can say that 90% of the land is leased and actually the state doesn't have any effect on these combinations, 10 billion should be budgeted, so we have to do it with something. There are also state-owned enterprises, and these small combinations are going to privatize, including labour groups, to take part in privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u48	Sergei Kaltsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u49	Please give the floor to Mr. Suhim Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u50	Yaroslava Suhigo microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u51	Thank you. Valentina Petrovna, I have a question for you as to the former active national deputy of Ukraine, the head of the profile commission and now the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. You know, before that, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has only approved a list of enterprises that are not privatized. This is the first time we're going to confirm the list that's privatized. So please state to what extent, in your opinion, the Head of the Maintenance Fund. The holding fund, which works without law and has no jurisdiction, will be able to set up a normal, transparent job in privatization without paying attention to telephone calls from the President's Secretariat, high-ranking officials, without responding to the decisions of a variety of sales courts? Will this enable us to set up and show society a transparent and comprehensible work on privatization under conditions, I stress, the absence of a basic law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u52	Thank you. I mean, really, without the law on the State Property Fund, I'm constantly in a suspended state. The control on the part of the Trust Fund for Privatisation should be, well, I would say, open and therefore the openness of the work of the State Property Fund in privatisation to the very fact that the triple control of the Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers is the one that could be regulated by the "Pro Fund" Act. I hope you'll get him, after all. This list provides an opportunity to prevent or protect the State Property Fund, really, from what you said. But first, to stop those courts that often stop the competition, privatization stops, and the State Property Fund becomes a hostage to the failure to implement the privatisation plan. And you're all colleagues, including you, Jaroslav Vasilovich, as a member of the non-execution of social programs. This year, KOCOR was removed from privatization, Lugansk Tepelling, 12 objects by decision of the courts, and I can't sell these objects, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u53	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u54	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Well, really, listening to this was embalming on the soul and it's kind of like just this splinter. And the sale of property is going to be our prosperity and order in the state. I want an explanation from you, though, whether or not polygraph combinations are harmful. Because I know that most of them were built in the last days of Soviet power, they can still serve and serve, why are they on this list? Next. I want to know whether the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we adopted a week ago with regard to the exclusion of objects from the privatization of the Sport Hotel, which serves our athletes and Olympic champions, is the Dnipro Hotel, which remains the only tourist object, we have also talked about it. And I want to say again, well, you don't just have to lead us into deception, because it feels like privatization is the only thing that's going to save us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u55	I, Catherine Seed, thank you for asking. And I want to say that the execution of objects that are today burdensome to the state and work in a cost-effective way, or that after six months there will be nothing there, it is better to go to privatization and give people jobs, pay. So that they don't go around the world, and at the same time, let the capital go to Ukraine, and let it work for Ukraine, not export abroad. As for your second question about hotel complexes. The decree was adopted when the list was formed and was adopted accordingly. So on our second reading, we can directly consider that proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I also want to say. Dear friends, I didn't agree, Jaroslav Vasilovich. If we haven't sold the right stock packages this year, we haven't sold the prohibited items, the court's decisions, we haven't run the school bus program, we haven't sent the funds to the hospital. So we have to understand clearly what we need to rebuild.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u56	Alexandrovska Alla.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u57	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u58	Eugene Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u59	Lydia Petrovna, you said in your report that this list was based on the findings of the sectoral ministries. Well, then I don't understand. A week ago, we had Government Day, we were listening to coal industry development, Tulub was speaking, Boyko was speaking. They said that their opinion was to impose a moratorium on the privatization of mines by 2008 in order to adopt a law on the specificities of the privatization of mines. There's already mines, whole associations, and so on and so forth. In addition, a line is being drawn again. New forward-looking mines are included, promising, Valentina Vasilievna, and the loss-making mines remain with the State. It is not enough that for the first time this year you have included a generation in privatization. This, I'll tell you, in France, in France, the generation is state property. How are we gonna be?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u60	The Honourable Eugene Vasilovich, in the area of mines, is now drafting a law on specialities and this is a sectoral proposal from the Ministry of Industry. All the proposals were included at their offer. And also, if we're talking about holding companies, like Alexandria Coal and stuff, they're in the lease. And as for the nadr. These objects are not to be privatized. What happened to us? For example, the quilts are privatized, and the gas pipes are in the hands of the state. That's where you have to look at what's involved. The main means are cars, tables, chairs. That's what's going on. And gas pipes don't turn on. We need to watch when the statutory fund is formed. It's about generation. So I want to tell you. I said in my speech, 60 plus 1 is all right. Control on the side of the state remains. These objects are already partially privatized. But I need to implement the $10 billion plan today. So we're going to include a bunch of small shares that today can budget, but control on the side of the state remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u61	Vyziewsky gives the word to Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u62	Dear Valentina Petrovna, I, frankly, as your former colleague, feel very sorry for you that the government has set you up to report this question. Because the list doesn't exactly match the ideology of the Socialist Party. It's a liberal list and it's very difficult for you to answer questions and insist on why privatization should be carried out. Now for a specific question. You know that the main point of the list when it was budgeted was that there were more than 100 objects that were insolvent. Why did neither the fund nor the Kabin remove these items from the list, and again there are objects that are subject to liquidation, bankruptcy, and rehabilitation? I can name these companies as Hurakhiv Mechanic Plant, Autoleumash Sanation, Artemov Engineering, Novogordov Maszadov. Why submit such a list to the deputies if more than 100 objects are not privatized at all? Why should we give it in such a way? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u63	Thank you. Alexandre Mikolaiovich, on the basis of liberality. Today, only two left-wing parties are socialists and communists. Sadly, that was the way people chose. But being out of control means being out of control. And I, as a socialist, can say one thing: what I'm going to do when I'm privatizing to protect a worker so that he has a salary, a job to get people to have all the social guarantees that socialists demand. That is why I will influence and stand on this rostrum as long as Parliament allows me and as long as my health is sufficient. That's the first one. The other one. As for the objects you named. The adopted Act on the administration of public property objects. The procedure for liquidation, the procedure for recovery, is mandatory through privatization legislation. That is, verification of material assets, confirmation of them, privatization or alienation through the resolution and restructuring mechanism only after privatization legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u64	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Chechtov, Mikhailo Vasilovich, reports. Five minutes. Get ready for Skinny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 November 2006 considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Ukrainian Law on the likely list of property rights subject to privatization in 2007 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. Taking into account the importance of the project for the formation of the income part of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007, the committee considered the draft law in the first order. The project proposes to introduce a list of non-privatizationable state property and a list of state-owned property that are not privatized but may be corporate, and to approve a possible list of state-owned property that will be privatized in 2007. The Ukrainian State Budget 2007 project is known to identify the problem of the privatisation of state property worth more than 10 billion dollars. During the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the State Budget project in September 2006 to the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committees on Budget Affairs, the economic policy of other committees raised concerns about the implementation of the entire income part of the State budget for 2007. the cash from the privatisation of state property, including through the sale of privatization items presented in Appendices Nos. 11 and 12 of the draft budget. The Ukrainian National Deputies also heard complaints about the adoption of a separate bill on the basis of these additions with a view to reviewing the list of sites to be privatized in 2007, particularly in addition to its large and medium-sized enterprises attractive to investors. The Cabinet of Ministers responded quickly and today the Supreme Council has the opportunity to take the first step to ensure that the planned state property privatization in 2007 is fully implemented. In particular, the bill proposes to ban 60 state-owned enterprises from privatization in such areas as Minprompolitics, Minagroproms, State-owned companies, Mintrans, Derjkominforms and Derjkomturism. A supplement approved by the bill under consideration is also proposed to identify a possible list of property rights subject to privatization in 2007. This list has more than 530 objects with a nominal value of nearly six billion dollars. In view of the fact that auctions are being held, according to practice, the sale price of objects increases considerably. The majority of members of the committee believe that the adoption of the bill will ensure that the tasks from the privatisation of state property to the State Budget of Ukraine set up by the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the 2007 State Budget Act amount to not less than 10 billion dollars. That's right. The committee therefore proposes a draft law by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Oriental List of Property Rights Objects to be privatized, to be adopted on the basis and entrusted by the Committee on Economic Policy, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to finalize the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of entities of the law of the legislative initiative, and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u66	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Any questions? Sign up. Yeah, three minutes. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u67	I'd like to ask, there have been conversations here. What's bothering me? That once again Parliament in our parliamentary-presidential republic no one needs it. We accepted here in the session room -- and Catherine Semimenovna talked about it -- the decree, the 418 votes, the removal of the Sport Hotel from privatization, it stands here. So maybe we don't have to discuss this at all, the government itself or the State Property Fund will determine. As a representative of Parliament, how do you feel about this? Second position. Here we have what was said on the objects of polygraph. You can analyze the situation in this way and first transfer it to municipal property because the city council knows whether it needs printing or not, rather than centralized through the State Property Fund, 23 objects of polygraph are privatized. This, by the way, applies to the Ministry of Defense, which is what we've been criticizing. Perhaps those objects would transfer property to the community rather than force the Ministry of Defense to trade?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. First, with regard to specific subjects, we today accept the list in the first reading and, if there are individual thoughts and I have focused on the attention of the national deputies, the committee will take into account and these comments will be made regarding the revision of the list in the second reading. As far as objects of polygraphing or other objects are concerned, I want to say that according to the Constitution, government. the government's function to manage state property. And governance needs to be considered in a broad context. You can manage through your own management, you can manage through renting, you can manage government property by creating joint ventures and you can manage government property through the sale or transfer to the hands of a private owner who invests in the company and ensures its competitiveness. So the government, coming out of this as a body that, according to the Constitution, manages and decides the fate of an enterprise, and when it makes a decision, it considers, first of all, a development strategy, so that this decision will enable it to develop strategically.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u69	You know, honourable colleagues, it's a pleasure that experts say, mostly heads of the State Property Fund. There's another one to talk about. Chubarov gives Bondar Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u70	Alexander Bondar, “Cobor” SRP, “Our Ukraine” faction. Mikhail Vasilovich, why didn't you tell us about a very interesting moment: which list did the committee review? I mean, what we've been looking at on the committee is a list that hasn't been registered in Parliament yet and that's different from what the MPs are now. There were liquor and guilt companies in that list, but after Semenyuk refused to visit him, the Cabinet of Ministers gave a different list and called it Oriental. So what list did the Economic Policy Committee review, and what list do you now report from the committee? Because, for example, as a committee member, I can't understand that. What can you say to such a question of mine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u71	There is a committee decision for which the majority voted. And most voted in favour of the bill that was passed today for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's another reporter. Head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u73	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited! On November 16th, the Special Commission on Privatisation, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, could be said to have considered, in an emergency, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Indicative List of National Property Rights Objects to Be Privatized in 2007. It should be noted that existing legislation does not provide for the approval of such a list by the Supreme Council. It's just a draft law that's not even brought to Parliament. And the current Act on Privatisation of State Property, article four, establishes that the Supreme Council, at the same time as the draft State Budget, offers proposals on the number of sites subject to privatization, the precise tasks of the coming of funds and the direction in which they are used. In fact, it should be noted that the title of the bill does not correspond to its contents, since the article first proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatization. Such changes should be made in accordance with a separate bill with the same name. In doing so, a detailed explanation of the need and the appropriateness of excluding each object from the list is provided, as established by law. There is no complete justification in this case. The only argument for adopting the bill is the need to fill the budget. It causes anxiety and the fact that the list is called a real, non-legislative technique. This name can cause a mixed interpretation and raises suspicion of the Government’s intentions to make changes to its list of reasons. But the Laws are mandatory for execution, so they cannot be oriented. According to the National Deputies, which are part of the commission, the introduction to the Supreme Council of a list of privatization enterprises without prior approval of the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and the State Privatization Programme does not allow for the forecasting of the volume of the proceeds of funds, since there is no known order or method of privatization. It is well - known that more than 300 enterprises reported in the current year are included in the list of sites scheduled for privatization in 2007. 19% of the objects are in bankruptcy, 17% of enterprises, even unoccupied. It has to be said that there are two casino companies that are not allowed to privatize by law. There are other standards in the draft that are in conflict with the laws, as noted in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. All these arguments were presented to the members of the commission during the discussion of the bill. On the basis of the above, the commission decided to invite the deputies not to include the draft bill in the agenda before the adoption of the national privatization programme. So we think that this bill should go back to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u74	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Are there any questions? Please. Three minutes, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. About the shortcomings of the Bill, Andriy Anatoliyovich said, and I fully support it. And to demonstrate how imperfect this bill is, this is a fact. There's Appendix 2 to this bill, a list of enterprises that aren't privatized but can be corporateized. So, there are polygraph companies in this list, such as Kiev Truth, which, dear Valentina Petrovna, to your knowledge, was corporateized back in 2001. And in 2001, shares were released, registered with the Securities and Stock Markets Commission. And you put it on a list that's only privatized. This is about how the State Property Fund prepares documents. It's completely inconvenient. And they can't be supported or voted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u77	Well, it was a wish, solidarity with the commission's decision, I get it. Stepan's bubble, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to answer the previous one, or no one has answered him. If elections to the Supreme Council were to take place each year, local self - government authorities would likely have worked in the way they do today. But who doesn't know that they actually survive. They survive each year, and those who work there and the state suffer because they have no opportunity to gain income from them. They pay taxes exactly the same. But I am. I have a question to report to you. You've responded very badly in your speech, given an assessment of this bill. But since the budget needs to be implemented, please tell us what role does your commission play in this? And how do you feel about providing income, income to the budget to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the commission and all the members that belong to it, by the way, are represented by national deputies from all the factions of the Supreme Council. And the unanimous opinion of the people's deputies who are part of the commission that any action and the State Property Fund and the government should do according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u80	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u81	May I have the floor to Marmazov?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u82	Eugene Marmazov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u83	Andrej Anatolievich, say, as Chairman of the Special Commission, you support this idea when there is no law on the characteristics of the privatization of coal enterprises, there is a specific feature of putting them on privatization and renting. Here's an example of Alexander's. Experent was leased there and Energougol transferred Alexanderiyugol to the lease. Within two years, everyone was robbed, ate all the supplies, put no money into development, and ran away. The cuts are flooded. Twelve months, people don't get paid, they cut equipment, they have to live for something. The Cabinet of Ministers can't influence, there are no levers. The household fund, Valentina Petrovna was sitting there, and there's nothing she can do. People rebel, they block, there's nothing we can do. And we continue to privatize coal mines. Well, is that reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u84	Thank you. Eugene Vasilevich, we've talked to you about this, you know my point of view. I fully support you on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u85	It's in general. Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again, all the suggestions you're making, they're stenographic, so today, if we do, we'll just take it from the first reading. The other one. I reiterate that not all ministries and authorities have agreed on this list, including I was asked by the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, our colleague Prutnik, to say that their office is opposed to privatizing objects related to polygraph companies. But that is what we will discuss with you when we finally accept it in our second reading. So please register with the factions for the performance first. Yes, and now, please, regardless of the faction. Now, now, Alexander. Well, let's take 30 minutes to discuss this. Yes, Chubarov gave the word to Alexander Bondar, please the faction “Our Ukraine”. Get ready for Belarus Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u86	Alexander Bondar, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, it is very good that in the House of Parliament the deputies who were the heads of the Foundation, four of them, and we can look at these issues professionally and give our own expertise. As an expert who has worked for 12 years at the Holding Fund and has been privatizing since 92, I can say that we don't really need this list. He doesn't bring us anything informative or legislative. It has already been said that it is real that it is not mandatory but, above all, that the list itself does not give the MPs anything. The main thing is how these objects will be sold. Unfortunately, we still don't have this information from the government and the holding fund. No privatization program has been introduced, no legislative changes have been made. The changes that have been made by both me and Deputy Cosmiakin in order to improve, make the privatization process more transparent, not considered. I got a draft privatization program, the changes in legislation submitted by the Ukrainian State Property Fund to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I can tell you that the discussions about the foundation holding open auctions are no more than wishful thinking and, they say, head of the fund. Because there is no such way of privatizing in the projects of the programme. It's not described. Secondly, if you sell objects with land, it can only apply to objects that are only created as open stock companies, because there is an expert assessment procedure for land, for selection, for inclusion in the statutory fund, and then for sale of shares. Believe me, before a year later, the fund can't do that. So this way of privatizing for the next year is also falling away. But in the Privatization Program, there are some very interesting other things that I'm going to read to you right now. “For example, the terms of privatization, including the qualifications and additional requirements of privatization objects, which, according to the law, are carried out in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and have strategic definitions for the State, are approved by the Fund of the State and the Cabinet of Ministers.” So again, the additional conditions and the re-qualified conditions that will determine the buyer long before the start of the competition. And there is also such interesting money in legislation, a change in legislation that sounds like: “If, in the case of a resell of a privatisation object, the amount of the proceeds of the sale contract is returned to the public in connection with the dissolution of the sale contract in court due to the non-performance of its terms and conditions, the amount of the costs obtained is less than that paid by the buyer under a contract of sale returned to the buyer is the amount actually recovered from the reselling.” If such changes take place in Parliament, what list can we confirm what we are talking about? That's why I'm assuming we have to get him back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u87	Thank you. Belarus passes the word to Oleg Laško, the faction “Bloka timoshenko”. Get ready for Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I've been on this subject for some time now, but you have to understand why. The polygraph sector is a strategic field for any state. If we lose our polygraph, we, in the same “Kyivska truth” today, are printed “The Voice of Ukraine”, today the magazine “More” of the Supreme Council is published, and other newspapers are printed, tomorrow they will come, build any hotel complex, and the newspaper will be nowhere to be printed, and we will not even be able to express our thoughts. Next. Valentina Petrovna, here told, vote for privatization, because, you see, the school bus program is not being implemented. Not only this program, but also the rural gasification programme and the “Buying Medical Equipment for Rural Ambularies” programme, and why? Because in the funding budget, these programs were put on a special fund, not a general fund. And they tied themselves to the proceeds of privatization. I mean, he's not going to vote for BUT or Communists to sell the whole country, he's not going to be in the gas village, he's going to vote. This is the honesty of their governments today. Next. Once again, I emphasize how these documents were prepared. After my speech, I approached Seminuke. She tells me: “It’s another publication, the ‘Kyivska Truth’. I said there's doubles. But no, Valentina Petrovna, here's a testimony to the registration of Kiev Truth, bearing witness to the 05905674. The same enterprise is registered in the draft law. So you just want to take these businesses under any circumstances. And the 61 Communion Plant in Santa?Oh, my God! The only shipbuilding plant in the country! Tomorrow the military ship will repair nowhere because new owners will come and melt the plant on scrap metal. Is there a powder factory in Barovara?Oh, my God! A criminal enterprise, which is generally prohibited under the State Property Act, to privatize. And you put it in a list of objects that can be privatized. And here's to misleading people that the State of the Commons doesn't deny privatization. That you were assigned a Prutnik. And three days before his appointment, his enterprises were included in privatization so that Prutnik could sit there as a wedding general. And companies of polygraph and other businesses! You two in government figure out what you're selling out there, and then come out here, to the Council. Dear colleagues, especially from the faction of the Party of Regions! Don't let the holding fund turn into a socialist property fund! You can't vote for this bill and satisfy the ambitions of the units sitting in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u89	Thank you. I have to say, they've heard so much from you that none of the 186 have been able to sign up for the speech, and now they're demanding a guaranteed right to speak. Basil Bogchuk, please, the Socialist faction. After him, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I think today we need to support the proposed list of enterprises and give normal opportunities and working conditions for the State Property Fund so that we don't squander and decide whether to take pictures or not, whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers or the courts or the administrations and committees. Today, most of the proposed privatization facilities require investment. And our people need jobs and wages and prospects. Budgets, both state and local, require additional income, without which there will be no computers, buses, or heat in schools. We have a second question that's interesting is that the budget is balanced. It's balanced because it's got 10 billion profits from privatized enterprises for social programs: it's health care, it's education programs, it's support for pensioners and young people, it's an extra income for the military, it's housing, it's building gas in our Ukrainian villages. There are many items on the list that I believe will be stolen tomorrow by thieves and frauds if we do not sell today. And we have a lot of these examples. Alexander Mikolaiovich, we are working with you on a special committee, and we must work with you to ensure both transparency and openness, and mechanisms, and so forth. Today and taking responsibility also for yourself, not only to say that the whole fund is to blame, but also to the Special Privatization Control Commission. I call on all the MPs today to support the bill in the first reading. We're going to be able to work out, take something off, add something. But I also think it is appropriate that we today, in support of the bill, should amend article 3, which refers to the sale of privatization objects and privatize privatization facilities along with land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u91	Thank you. Alexandrovska gives the word Simonek, please. Prepare from the Chechtev region faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! First remark, discussing the matter. I believe that the end of cynicism is when some here begin to talk about “righteous works”. On my memory of Bondar, Kuchma simply saved several times when there was a desire to remove his post from the Supreme Council and file cases with the Public Prosecutor's Office to find out what had been done during the privatization process. I would like you to consider, please, what is being done according to Evgenia Vasilevich Marmazov's statement to Alexanderiyugol. Isn't that what your MP Zhivago is doing? That's what this is about, respectable colleagues. So when we discuss the problem, I would like to draw attention to the following. First. Unfortunately, privatization has become a source of budget filling rather than a mechanism and policy to improve the efficiency of governance and to create competitive products. Sadly, though, the owner refused to finance social programs, and the state, after losing ownership, has virtually failed to manage the social issues that concern society today. What is it, what is it? First. This senseless privatization has led to the fact that the State today does not pursue job creation policies, but the owner has refused to do so, and it does not control, regulates the family’s income, that is, the level of wage. Another problem. The profitability of these companies, which are said to be, is unfortunately, but the official policy that was initiated by the motorists at the beginning of our reconstruction in Ukraine of independence, especially for creating artificial reductions and lowering the cost of the core funds. And this, by the way, is already causing the problems of technological catastrophes. Why won't the Communist faction vote for this project? And because it's about to privatize the skyscrapers, and it's going to hit our population again, and it's going to question the organization of businesses again. It's coal engineering, energy engineering, power engineering, power engineering, it's going to be destroyed, it's going to be the main sector -- the machine building. I'd like to give you an example. “Odessaselmash” is the most powerful construction company. Destroyed. They destroyed 22,000. The press at one company, respectable comrades! Does that not give us a clear basis for today’s privatisation of sugar plants, the buragasporas? That is, science and the production of new ones will be destroyed. The shafts that make more profits today, including “Paulgradwugil” and “Poldenmash” – defense, “61 communists” – all that has to do with the elevators, the combinations of the bread products. So once again, I want to say that first of all, we need to determine the state property that will guarantee state security and independence and then discuss the possibility of further privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u93	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The Cabinet of Ministers this year carried out for the first time the mandate of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council and removed from the budget a list of sites whose sale is to provide a partial budget base of 10 billion dollars. and filed as a separate bill. I repeat. This is the first time in 15 years. Next, second moment. With regard to the feasibility of considering the privatization programme first and then the approval of the list. Yeah, maybe there was a point. But the fact is that the privatization programme is not adopted because it is not introduced is like the Holding Fund Act. The Fund has been operating for three Soviet five years if the terminology of past times can be used and there is no fund law. Let us hope that this Parliament will adopt the Fund Act, which was already adopted on first reading, yes. The privatization programme had been introduced on several occasions, but for political, ideological reasons it had not been adopted and rejected. And to date, such a privatization programme is new, a new edition, but today it is old, it has been prolonged according to the last paragraphs of the old programme. As for the list, the list should be approved because it is budgeted. And what today is just pushing off the list will just ruin the budget process for next year and mine all social programmes for next year. This is the true care of the people, yes. Set a mine under social programs, blow everything up, turn everything into chaos, and let people live as they please. Third moment. In terms of double criticism, it is mutually exclusive. On the one hand, there is a criticism of why bad Bancrot objects were involved, and on the other hand, they are said because the bad ones are not good and will be fulfilled. suma. On the other hand, they say, "Why did the good guys turn it on?" I will respond to this double criticism. Never was the main goal of privatization to fill the budget. Privatization has never been fiscal; it is a secondary task. Privatization is a priority to ensure the arrival of an owner that will provide a strategic perspective for enterprise development. That is why a non-profit enterprise was included here, because the State does not have money, the investor, when it comes to the enterprise, will ensure their development, the labour force. jobs, money in the budget. But on the other hand, the good ones got here. Then the question arises — why the good ones are included. The thing is, it's not a good business today, it's a promising one, yes. We've got massive wearout, physical wearout, and the moral wearout of the core funds. Today they're still in the market, without investment they won't stay in the market tomorrow, they'll die. In order to be competitive, private investment and enterprises need to be privatized now. Once again, the Government is in line with the perspective of the enterprise. Finally. There may be some separate objects that need to be added, there may be some separate objects that can be deleted, but there is a first reading procedure for that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Michael Tomenko has the word. Petruk, who has six minutes, also gives him his speech. Please prepare for him, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I think it's a positive decision that we're debating today because you know, when we're looking at the budget, we've drawn attention to the fact that the budget document has a state privatization program and our requirement and the requirement of other political parties that are represented here is that the budget. Everything about the budget discussion has been considered separately, everything about privatization issues is separate. And I think it is useful that we today have the opportunity to discuss both strategy and specific objects. This means that Parliament can really influence this situation. In terms of strategic moments. In my opinion, of course, it would be necessary to discuss this document, to say that the privatisation strategy in Ukraine is changing, whether it remains old. I am absolutely convinced that if we are in Parliament to discuss issues and to draw conclusions, we must also edit the state programmes that are being presented here. If we had accused the Ministry of Defence a few weeks ago of being privatized in a dishonest and false way, we would probably have to hear from the State Property and Government Foundation that the Ministry of Defence would not be involved in the trade and sale of property. [[I'm conditional now, in quotes I'm saying, because we have to prove whether that fits the truth]] For example, these functions would be performed by local authorities, since they would be handed over to them by military objects, and they would be selling them transparently at the auction. And it turns out that we've criticised the Ministry of Defense -- and the Ministry of Defense will continue to do trade. We talked about inefficient government management. And everything remains the same as before, because, I am absolutely convinced, our inspection, our committee demonstrated that today, even the objects that are located -- not just the state share -- the 100% state-owned enterprise -- in the system of ministries, are actually prepared for shadow privatization or abuse. Here we checked the Young Guard. Granted, the Ministry of Justice has registered a statute of state-owned enterprise Youth Guard, which is allowed by this state-owned enterprise to do: sell oil, issue shares, almost go to stock exchanges. So I'm going to ask you, are we, like, to heal the kids of the Young Guard? How could the Ministry agree to such a charter, the Ministry of Justice register? It took 15 deputies to come to the Young Guard to find out what the charter showed was preparing, maybe some kind of commercial structure. Did the committee have to analyze the documents of our Ice Stadium to see that there was actually one sports object under the auspices of an investment project, and the rest of it was under construction. Of course, we corrected these two objects. Well, I think the task of the State Property Fund and its branches is to control, not just sell, but control how our government share is used, whether or not shadow sales are made. It's already talked about the polygraph field, well, it's very obvious that one of the ideologists of the government of Viktor Yanukovic, who is now an ideologist again, couldn't privatize this polygraph field, he wants to do it. Doesn't anyone understand that? When the state committee on television and radio talk got to the bottom of this, he said that you can't write about it on the other side, that all polygraphs are corporateized, and on the 12th, it's privatized the next day, because that's not what any country is stealing. If there's one typography in Chernobyl, or if there's one printing in Suma, then maybe the community needs to ask, does it need a typography? If they say they don't have to. So maybe it's actually going to be public property, let it be a transparent auction, and this typography, for example, is being privatized without a change of purpose. In general, there is no way to privatize the entire field of polygraph in 23 facilities with institutions. Because some man came to the government. I would like to draw attention to a number of other industries. In the ninth year, the state tourism agency created a company called Ukraine Tourism. By the way, this company was actively supported when today’s government was there. So now I'm addressing, let's hand over this tourism enterprise to the Ministry of Culture, to the tourism that we've foreseen. What do I see here? Privatisation “Ukraine Tourism” goes on. I have a question: where do we, if we first set up this enterprise, put it in the budget to perform some functions, to transfer objects to the tourism sector, and now we privatize it, not give it to the Ministry that cares about tourism, but to privatize it? Well, where is state policy supposed to be? So I am absolutely convinced that the privatisation policy strategy should be changed. Once again, if we trust the ministries, the authorities, they have to control it, and we on the side of Parliament and the State Property Fund check what's going on there, so there's no history that the ministries have us today and the authorities, it turns out, against the State Property Fund, because we see in a few positions that they don't want to privatize it, but the Ministry does. And finally again, I would like to make sure that, Adam Ivanovich, it doesn't disappear from somewhere in our transcript, what Catherine Simeonovna said. So once again, I want to pay attention, this is the position of our committee, the position of the sports sector. A decision that has been made must respect the decision of the Supreme Council. Sport Hotel remains as it is, engaged in sports. And you don't have to privatize the last institution because that's what someone wants to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We're 12 years old. Or maybe we'll finish the question, we'll have about 10 minutes, and then we'll have a break. Okay? Okay. Please, Queen. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the people! I think we all understand that privatization 2007 will be the last major public property fair in the history of the country if we adopt the bill as we consider it today. We are invited to vote in favour of the indicative list of public property rights, and we need to consider adopting a privatization programme today. Currently, Ukraine is at a stage where privatization policies must move from quantitative indicators to qualitative ones, because privatization has, to some extent, moved to a manual regime where objects are removed either by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers or by decisions of the courts. When we see, unfortunately, precedents where, in the context of privatization, specific orders are prescribed and when the participation of our domestic investors is limited. We have all recently observed the process of privatizing Lugansktepelling, and by the time this enterprise is privatized, it will be stopped and no one will be interested. The new privatization programme should include the development of key measures for the effective management of public property, clearly defined goals, priorities, privatization conditions and strategic industries for our country. I understand that leaving enterprises in public property that make profits is not always appropriate for different reasons, as the State is not an effective economic owner, public assets often lead to corruption and the market value of public assets in most cases decreases over time. There are precedents, however, when public industries are growing after restructuring and are able to attract more effective investors and maximize income in the budget. Strategic industries that should remain with the State must be first identified. Privatization is not an end in itself or simply a way of filling the budget. The ultimate goal of privatization is to improve the lives of people by improving the economic efficiency of enterprises. We're just talking to you today about a list of objects and such an impression that these objects belong to us with you. Nope. These are objects that belong to all the people of Ukraine, and we are all responsible to the people of Ukraine for the fact that we are privatizing, under what conditions and how effectively these enterprises will work after privatization. The indicative list of sites proposed for privatization shows neither the programmatic approach nor the system for maximizing income in the budget, but more.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, you know, I remember many of the laws that dealt with privatization, which the Supreme Council had considered, but there never was, excuse me, such insolent, unceremonious law. Why? For the first time, the Supreme Council law proposes to give its prerogative, its responsibility for privatization. Even in the title of the law, this is a targeted list of privatization objects. I mean, they're offering the Supreme Council the right to give the Cabinet of Ministers and the Statemeine Foundation their right to distribute government property on a culinary basis. It's not just unacceptable, it's a contradiction to Ukrainian legislation, it's contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution. Next question. We do not see in this law even a reasonable justification for the purpose of privatizing an object, nor has it ever been. We do not know which of these objects are profitable. Again, the question arises why a nation’s profitable objects should sell instead of earning, systematically earning income from its budget. We can't see the answer here, because profit objects hide behind unprofitable businesses. And of course, we can guess from three options which of the new owners will buy them. These will be representatives of the faction of regions, or socialists, who are also interested in very, very recent privatization issues. And, you know, I was surprised to see that the last objects of the military-industrial complex, strategic objects are also included in this list. At the same time, honourable colleagues, I would like to comment, although this may not be the case, on the speech of the distinguished representatives of the Communist faction, who were very angry about the adoption of this law. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, I'd like to remind you, or inform you if you don't know that this law has been passed by the Cabinet of Ministers Janukovich. And I want to inform you who created this Cabinet of Ministers. I remember it was created by a faction of regions, a faction of the Socialist Party and a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. And so, despite your angry speeches, full responsibility for this, sorry, criminal, masmatic law is also borne by your party and your faction along with the socialists and the regionals. And while you're in this anti-crisis coalition, all of your angry speeches are empty, empty populism, behind which nothing stands. Because your position is demonstrated by the creation of this coalition. And you have full responsibility for this crime, which is being proposed today in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u101	Yes, thank you. Please, one minute Semenyuk, close the word and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to answer the questions raised regarding military property. I want to say that three years ago in 2001 the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Property was passed in the session hall. It is this law that you will change and then the issue of military property will be raised. I want to talk to you about one more explanation when we're talking about inefficiencies in governance, without legal reinforcements. So if you'll excuse me, only the Controls Act has been passed. For 15 years no one has done so, and now it will be necessary to link the issue of effective management with clear management. As for the transfer to utility. The law on transfer from state property to the municipal clearly foreseen mechanism and this mechanism will be used for those objects, including military only necessarily by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, as stipulated in the legislation. With regard to the remark made by the deputy regarding polygraph publishing the “Book”. What I'm saying is that corporate issues and stock registration are clearly defined by law and not necessarily leaves, these are two major differences in privatization and corporateization. And we're only getting this combination out of the second list that's included in the corporation. Stocks are accounted for. I'd like to make a request. We have now passed a series of laws to amend the legislation after privatization. In the settlement of property responsibility, this is particularly about the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Municipal Property, so that they don't stretch that communal property and the council of different levels have seen what they govern, and I hope that you will support it in this room. Similarly, making changes before all the statutes that apply, that is, I would like to respond to the observation, according to the Youth Guard, that the statutes must be aligned with the Cabinet of Ministers, not only with the Departments. I think that this procedure will be taken into account when we adopt the relevant legislative documents that are being considered in the session room. Therefore, I think that if we approve this corresponding list today, the following legislative document that you will consider in the session room, we will certainly take your comments into account. So please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u103	Bondar, a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u104	Alexander Bondar, “The Council”, “Our Ukraine”. I want to respond to the performance of the leader of the faction in the red corner. That your example doesn't exactly fit the reality for two reasons. First. I haven't had a close relationship with Kuchma like you to protect me from the Henprosecutor's Office. Oh, that's different. Thus, no successor of mine has been able to carry out professional privatization as I have. And if you mention the representative of our faction, I think you'd better tie up, mention the other factions that are here. But unfortunately, they're with you in the same coalition, and you don't talk about it. So I would ask you, before giving me these characteristics, to mention how I, as an expert, am considered in the area of privatization. And once again, I ask you to apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u105	Of course, Alexander Mikolayovich. It's true. Wait. I will criticize Alexander Mikolaiovich for what he said about his successors. It's not right in the presence of one of the successors who does the decent work. I don't need to, don't apologize, hold this. I'm asking you to vote for the first reading of the program. Please go to the vote in the first reading. [[12:12:46]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. There's a break for half an hour. At 12:42 a.m., a meeting will begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our meeting. Yeah, let's move on to the question. Draft Decision on the resignation of Pauline from the post of Minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth and sports. [[Registration number 2441]] Reports the Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government of Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, invited! At a meeting of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, held on October 31, 2006, the issue of individual statements made by individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding their resignation from positions of office, including the Minister of Ukraine for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Paulie Jurija Alexiyovich. As a result of the consideration of the question of Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that he accept his resignation from his position in office, according to his personal application. The draft decree is in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u108	Yes, would there be questions for the committee head? No questions? Please sit down. Is there a wish, Yuri Alexiyovich, to say something? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Thank you for considering my application today. I was forced to again yesterday to address the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that my application for political resignation could be considered, as it had been more than a month since my application was filed and considered on the committee. My position is unalterable. It is that I went to the government when the Memorandum and the Universal of National Unity were signed, which predicted the creation of the National Unity Coalition in the Supreme Council. It wasn't created. The political power that I represented in the government, "Our Ukraine", has moved into opposition to today's government, which is what my resignation application was called. I am not ashamed of what I did in my post as Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports. I thank all the Ukrainian National Deputies for their support in the ministry and especially on the last day of the government, when 418 votes were voted in favour of the decree on the development of sport and physical culture. I am convinced that the things that I have done as minister are irreversible and will continue. But there is political responsibility and there is my political, civil position. And besides, of course, yesterday's events in the Supreme Council during the consideration of the matter of the Holocaust have also prompted me to do more quickly, as I believe that the Holocaust is a genocide of the Ukrainian people. And the fact that part of Parliament and part of the Anti-Crist Coalition did not vote in favour of that decision will also move me to my political position. I thank everyone and look forward to a positive decision by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u110	Yes, dear colleagues, I understand that there is no one who wants to discuss this issue. Nobody insists? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2441 “On the resignation of the Minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth and sports”. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: first, to accept the resignation of the Minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth and sports. The second is that the decision takes effect from the day it was adopted. The whole decision is being voted out. [[12:50:17]] For 241 It's been decided. Let us thank Yuri Alexiyovich for his government work and for his really conscientious attitude toward the performance of his duties as minister of the Supreme Council. And the Supreme Council, in turn, has always contributed to the work of this ministry. It was, it was, and I was. I express my firm conviction that this will continue. Yes, Your Honor, and if there are no further questions, I'll introduce you to the application. It's all your time. You know, when we listen to the ministerial reports, we've made decisions, we've given the commission to the committees, and I hope that today they will sit down and prepare regulations on the reports of the two ministers that we've talked to you about -- both the Defence Minister and the Foreign Minister -- and this week we're going to consider these draft regulations that will prepare the committee. With regard to the minister of health. I'll let myself know that there are no unnecessary questions, you and Yuri Volodymyrovich Polachenko. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Polachenko A statement. I recall my statement of 11.10.06 in response to the disagreement with the "Our Ukraine" party's opposition to government and coalition. I believe that the national interests of the Consolidation of Society should be higher than the party interests. I agree to continue working in the government to implement the President's programme, the Universal of National Unity, Ukraine's laws and government programmes. Polack. 27.11.06 What does Lyszko disagree with? Turn on the microphone. Maybe he's running for office, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I assure you both, and the Anti-Crist Coalition, that I will not claim any office in your government, nor will I claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u112	That's good, you know the price, that's commendable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u113	That's absolutely right. And I wanted to say something else. Consider the statement made by the distinguished Mr. Polachenko, to whom I, by the way, have a normal attitude. But as he makes a statement, what he's willing to do is follow the paragraphs: Universal, then the laws and the Constitution. Why not the other way around? Because Universal is not the law, nor is it any other normative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u114	And thank you for your clarification, you are absolutely right in this regard. Dear colleagues, let us consult with you. I'd like you to support the proposal of the Committee on Banks and Financial Activities right now. The point is that yesterday we had one of the Soviet Bills: the establishment of export duty rates. On the Conciliation Council, a committee of profile requested that the bill be submitted on Thursday or Friday in an unwillingness. This morning they came to us and told us that the committee was ready. And if it's your will, then I'm voting for inclusion -- it's included in the agenda, sorry -- today's consideration of Bills Nos. 2398, 2398-1, 2398-2, the drafts of the Act "On the establishment of export duty rates on black metals, scrap metal and semi-factories and their use." Please vote to consider it right now. [[12:54:49]] For 327 Decision taken. I call on the Secretariat: Are we ready to consider it? The committee's ready, who? I can't see the powder. Who's from the committee? You don't? Then let's do it this way: now we're going to look at the next law, in the meantime the Secretariat will prepare the rapporteurs for us, and then we're going to go to the draft bill that we voted on. Is there no objection? Thank you. The draft Industrial Safety and Occupational Safety Audit Act, registration number 2195, is under consideration. The initiator is the national deputy of Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna. Please. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I have the honour to report on the draft law on auditing for industrial safety and labour protection, not only am I the initiator of this bill. I want to thank all of our creative teams, which include our colleagues: the People's Deputy of Matvienkov, Pshonka and Skudar. And we worked on this bill together. The bill is aimed at, in fact, a significant increase in the overall level of safety of production. The bill is directly related to a number of other existing laws. First of all, it's the Labour Protection Act. The Labour Protection Act long ago predicted that there would be an audit from the protection of work. In these years, however, the Law has never been adopted to decipher the contents of this audit. That is, the employer’s responsibility was certain, but it was not stated how he would fulfill his responsibility. And this bill is actually a decryption of the content of the audit on industrial security and labour protection. I would like to point out immediately that there is no misunderstanding, the second article of this bill reads as follows: “The audit of industrial security and work security in Ukraine is voluntary. So we don't create a new responsibility, we just propose and encourage the use of a job security audit as a way for the employer himself to increase his safety. Why is this necessary? I'll explain: those companies that have already encountered foreign investment, they know that security issues are at the top of the line around the world. You can't make a foreign investment unless you get an audit opinion from some recognized world network of industrial security companies, like Tuffnor. I know that there are already a number of industrial giants in Ukraine who have come to that conclusion. But why couldn’t Ukrainian audit companies join these networks? Because these networks predict that there must be this company of any kind of property, but not an authority of the state. That is to say, it must be a host subject who is, in some ways, registered, controlled in some way, but does this work on competitive grounds. This is the system that we have foreshadowed by our law. Here is the employer’s right to choose the company that will conduct the audits that he has designated. There's a system that's tied to an already existing law that we've adopted for many years now on accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. And these audit companies, they're going to be this body that's already created and running today, the accreditation body, they're going to be accredited and registered. This register will be conducted by a specially authorized labour security authority, or double control. And control of these audit companies is going to be on the part of both the accreditation bodies, and on the part of the special authorized authority on labour protection. Thus, those companies that will use to improve safety of audit firms -- job protection audits -- would build such a system when a special authority oversees the quality of the work of audit companies, recognizes the results of their audit, and should no longer exercise control directly at the firm. It is much easier and better to control audit companies and to calculate that they are already in control and that they are putting security management systems in business. In general, I would have this idea: to shift the weight in the area of job security control from trying to catch someone at a disadvantage, to try to make sure that such a violation doesn't happen. As our fellow national deputy Wilkul said, he said that if the top management of a large enterprise included in every manager's task on every job chain, then that job protection worked. And if a topmanager involves hiding from a controlling authority, then security doesn't go up, but it goes down to corruption, some bribes, and various ways to solve the issue. So in my opinion, this law is, first of all, a law aimed at building a modern European incentive system. To emphasize, he does not force anyone, nor does he create an additional commitment. It creates a system of incentives, and these incentives contribute to the integration of management, such as safety and safety. I want to say that there are a lot of points here, how, what are the tasks of the audit companies, what are the qualifications for them. And these qualifications are quite detailed. I would also like to point out that this law is in line with the Law on the Allowance System. Because this is an audit conclusion that the entrepreneur himself chooses whether to get an audit opinion or to follow the permission of the public authority. This auditory conclusion is likened to an arbitrary document. That's an incentive. So the employer can choose what is better for him: to manage security or to hide from control. So we give him that choice and we encourage him to invest in security management. In general, once again, this law creates voluntary incentives. I think it's the best and it can lead to the best results. More of our companies are going to invest abroad, more of our businesses are going to go out with their products to foreign markets, and they're going to be recognized as competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u116	Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u117	Please indicate that the draft does not provide for a mandatory form of audit and the cases in which it is to be conducted, nor does it pay due attention to the training and appraisal of labour-protection auditors with the right to audit. The standards set out in the draft need to be brought into line with the current requirements of the organization of work. Do you think it would be possible to refine it or was it not specifically done for any objective reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u118	No, dear colleagues, I agree with you that there may still be a number of remarks to this bill in order to accept the concept, but to work on it really in directions where we can significantly improve and deepen certain directions. In particular, I agree with you, and we've written down very carefully the external audit and the company as they're accredited, but we've allowed an internal audit to be carried out by a person who has a certificate. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to decipher it. We look forward to your help in preparing for second reading, because this bill will be in our Committee on Industrial Policy, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, and we, the authors of this bill, will create a working group and ask all the deputies who have ideas on how to improve this concept that I have set up, we will definitely invite them to a working group and then we will have a public discussion, because this bill, in my opinion, is to be adopted publicly and transparently, because it is for the benefit of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u119	Paul Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u120	Kostenko, BUT faction. Please give the floor to Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u121	Turkinov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u122	Dear reporter, our faction raised a question when we discussed this bill at the meeting regarding the fact that audits would be imposed on all structures, and in fact this would be a gain for some, and for other businesses, a loss. And we would like you to explain this situation to the faction, that is, how much is required audit, and for what enterprises? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. I quote once again article 2 of this law, which is already there. Audits from industrial security and labour protection in Ukraine are voluntary. This is a clear article of the law. That is, there can be no imposition here. I know about why such suspicions arose. Because there's an article 3, which says who might be the contracting party. And it states here that the contracting authority may be interested in the central and local executive authorities, the local self-government authorities. And some people have the impression that they might be buyers for a temporary business -- that's not the case. We are obliged to work on this article and here to make it clear that they may be contracting solely with regard to enterprises owned or owned by the State or local communities to which they are entitled. For example, they want a certain enterprise for privatization, you know, environmental audits are required. But industrial safety audits will also help to improve the quality of this business, so that it will cost more in privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u124	Leonid Mordovian. Baranowski, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u125	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you whether you've calculated how much it's going to cost to audit all our businesses, small and large, and what he's willing to do, tomorrow we know very well, he's going to be mandatory and he's going to use them and the organs of self-government, as noted in article 3, and so on. What kind of money is that going to pay? The other one. We don't have clear technical regulations for producing one or the other. Even if we take bread, we have the technical standards that are developed in each area or there, meat products and so forth, and we can achieve Ukraine’s only ones for virtually no longer for a variety of reasons. So if these norms are different in areas and they start applying them, tomorrow this discussion with competitors will stop anyone who has paid more for audits, who's more promoting the audience and so on. And one more thing. Trauma costs are paid out of state execution, and the auditor will be a businessman person in charge, and so on. Something's not going to tie up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u126	Thank you. Let me start with the last question. Traumatism is the result of payments, not from a government execution, but from the Formed Insurance Fund, my esteemed colleagues, the employer. And the employer is interested in the economy of the fund. This is the first time. It's different. It's about what norms are. Colleagues, these are two very different spheres. Quality control, product safety, that's one area, and monitoring the requirements of legislation in the field of labour protection, that's a whole other area. And in this second sphere, there's a very large number of normative documents left over from Soviet times that are re-created, that clearly regulate the requirements for job protection. So the object of control here is pretty clear and clear. Now it's about value. It's probably the most exciting question. Well, first of all, I mean. If Parliament wants to make something compulsory, it can do so with or without our law. And tomorrow it is simply a matter of deciding whether there is a mandatory public or non - state audit. Here, unfortunately, we can
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u127	You've already answered everything. Please sit down. You reported, he understood, the answer, Baranowski. I think you've been very convincing in your report. Thank you. Please, Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, Head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u128	Respected colleagues, the Industrial Regulatory Policy Committee, entrepreneurship had considered the draft law on auditing and industrial safety and labour security at its meeting, and suggested that it should be adopted on first reading. According to existing law, the employer ensures that the system of labour management, labour management, organization and audit of labour protection is in place. As a result, safety measures are being taken. But this labour protection law does not work and remains declarative, as legislation that regulates the conduct of an audit on industrial security and labour security to date is virtually nonexistent. The proposed bill should be implemented due to both structural changes in the economy and adaptation of domestic legislation to the requirements of the EEC. The project proposes the establishment of a new independent system for the audit of labour safety at work, taking into account international law, which will increase the overall level of safety at work in the conduct of all business entities independent of ownership and activities. The project also provides for the main legal institutional basis for the audit, identifies the main provisions: what is an audit of industrial security, identifies the contracting authority, the audit performer, the requirements for audit organizations, facilities, criteria and types of audit. The adoption of the bill would improve industrial safety and improve the efficiency of enterprises. Another indicator of the adoption of the bill would be the facilitation of the access of the domestic producer to European markets. Since auditing is a prerequisite for industrial safety in enterprises, it is a requirement of a number of international standards, including WTO. It should be noted, however, that the individual status of the project requires further development. Here and in the comments that have been discussed, it has already been said. In particular, the question remains open to independent audits in enterprises with particularly dangerous working conditions. We have businesses that work with the chemical industry, we have metallurgy, we have enterprises where there are really complex and difficult working conditions. This rule must be reflected in this law and must be clearly defined. There is also a need to strengthen the accreditation mechanism of audit organizations by conducting audits of industrial safety at work, criteria and requirements for the training of auditors. That is, questions were raised here as to whether there was a situation that today the law could be used as a mechanism of unfair competition by means of pressure, so let us say some competitors to other and other things. Thus, all these questions, all the “warnings” you are talking about, have been heard at the meetings of the Committee, and we have been very attentive and attentive in addressing this issue. Therefore, the Committee, believe me, has taken a rather balanced approach to assessing this bill and decided to ask you to vote for it in the first reading and with what Ksenia Mikhaylovna said, we could set up a working group today to weigh and put everything on weight. We understand one thing perfectly. No competition, no, let's say, monetary factors, no policy use is at the heart of human life and human health. And the main purpose of this bill, which we are building on, must be to create a normal enabling environment for human work, so that we can capture the conditions that, if the child sends the pope to work, he must be sure that the father will return from work alive and well. This is what we want to do in the committee to ensure that this bill is working in this direction. Trust me, we're going to scratch everything about unfair competition, we're going to scratch everything about questionable things, we're going to scratch out everything that's going to be about easy profit for an audit, but we're only going to leave what can work for a job. One more moment, I want to say. We've done a lot of things, I think, from my point of view, a lot of nonsense. When we adopted the law and the mechanism for forming the fund from the accident, when today we created conditions where the economic manager is absolutely not interested in promoting labour protection. That is, no matter how many injured people have been in the company, whether 10, or 15, or 100, how many regressors have appeared, the owner pays the same amount depending on the complexity of the business. I think that these laws must guide us in this direction. Thank you. I ask that you support him in his first reading and trust the committee to complete him for his second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u129	Let's sign up for the speeches, excuse me, for the question. Yes, Sergey Anatolyovich, don't go. Three minutes. Please, Baranowski. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd love to. The reporter. We know very well how voluntary things are then made mandatory. Remember when voluntary audits were conducted in accounting and accounting? When now, the tax authorities later ceased to accept reports if there was no such audit document. That's why I think today, I meant technical standards. It comes to the business of the wrong electrical diameter or, let's say, it's not that far from the wall. We had different standards, and now others are putting them out. And each audience will act in its own way. And we can really stop these businesses. In my opinion, as long as we don't have legislation clear on technical regulations, this bill will be adopted prematurely, because, apart from damage, it will not benefit our production.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u131	Thank you, thank you. I want to answer that question in two ways. Part one. First, no audit will stop your production – this is the first one, it will write a prescription and give you a way to improve your working conditions at the company. That's the first question. Question two. Today we, today, are being subjected to forced audit, monitoring by the supervisory authorities. He's being coerced today. And it's a little bit of another. If you don't want to have a coerced today, where you come in and ask questions like this, you can do audits -- hire a firm, a company, and know that you have normal working conditions, you get a paper for three years that only gives you the right to improve working conditions. On the contrary, no one will touch you. You're just worried about your main subject of concern, it's based on this law. It's that law that solves the problem you're talking about when the clerk comes and just stops the business. Stop by writing the order today. That's the trouble, because you're not immune to what you're saying today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u132	Sergey Anatoliyovich, this is still mandatory because either the state will conduct the audits or you will conduct the audits yourself, but it is absolutely necessary to conduct them. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u133	We have to deal with labour protection in any way. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be dealing with them at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u134	Thank you. Your Honor, this is exactly where we go to convince us that auditing is good, and no one is arguing. Another question is, how motivated will it be, what audit parameters, what legal effects will it have? You said. What's going to be a prescription. But what will be the result if this provision is not fulfilled? That's two questions. And the main thing. I think that, of course, job security is very important, but I also think that the new conditions in which the worker works are equally important. Thus, the application of outdated standards does not lead to safety of work. The safety of work results in the fulfillment of new standards. At the very least, your committee should initiate parallel drafting of legislation, updating legislation to ensure safety of work. And only then can this audit work as a decent mechanism. But believe me, it will still be mandatory in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u135	I think that in this way, when it is made on the basis of the rules we have set out, it will not be binding on anyone, to review and verify the safety of working conditions in enterprises. The question of what? It would be binding on the State or would be voluntary on the part of the audit. The one you're going to give. But it must be in any way. Who has to control is the question. That is, today, as a producer, as an employer, you are given the right to choose: either to ensure working conditions or to do so. But it will still be the employer's responsibility to maintain the conditions of safety, and it is his sacred, bloodthirsty duty. The question is that you are right, that we need to further develop the legislative framework and create conditions. Safety of working conditions. That is the right question, absolutely correct, but that is not the norm of this law, and I agree. And what we're talking about here today is we're giving an alternative to those enterprises that can work voluntarily today, I don't see anything wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u136	We give money to some. Have a seat, please. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Sign up, please. Let's take 10 minutes. Yes, please, 15 minutes. Eugene Gorenik, please. After him, Baranowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the idea of the bill is actually two questions. First, in creating an alternative service to an existing government pro. checks and assessments of the state of work security and safety at production. And secondly, the possibility of voluntary audit for enterprises. The idea, in principle, is healthy and needs and has the right to exist. The other thing is to implement this idea in this bill. In fact, it refers to individuals. Safety techniques are a very complex sector, which includes a lot of laboratory tools and other dimensions that physical persons can't practically use, only have state-based appropriate institutions. And the second. That's not the point. Second, there is no defined way of accrediting those responsible to the same audience. And it's also possible that an enterprise that's not satisfied with the intervention of public authorities can use private audiences. Of course, the management of the enterprise is responsible, but there's no responsibilities for these individuals who are auditors, the consequences of their audits, the consequences of their activities. Thus, with all the attractiveness of the idea and perhaps the appropriateness of its market economy, it in the way it is represented does not exactly contribute to increasing the safety of production and to an objective assessment of its security. On the contrary, we have repeatedly argued that in the context of our Ukrainian economy and social relations, this leads to appropriate corruption when flaws are covered in some areas. Therefore, I do not think that this bill, having the right to exist and to be put into practice, can be considered in such a way that “you accept it in the first reading, and we are working on the second.” We should see what manner of accreditation, what responsibility, what authority these individuals have. And maybe they should be brought to legal persons, because it's not that simple. And then you can appreciate how active this mechanism will be and how much it can be accepted. So I suggest we re-send the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u138	Alexander Baranowski. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u139	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the previous speaking colleague of the Mountain. He rightly asked the question: In conducting an audit, what is the technique today? What will those or other parameters of appropriate equipment, anything related to appropriate mechanisms, and so forth, be measured privately when, apart from the table, the authors, and perhaps at best, the engineering education, or any other production-related activities, are no longer available? I don't want to humiliate these people that they may not be competent. He just won't be able to do it properly. On the other hand, the Law provides that internal audit, that is, voluntary, should be conducted clearly each year. That means we have to pay the money every year. You're not gonna get a report tomorrow, there's gonna be other cogs coming at you, and you're gonna have to do it. Third, an audit firm document gives you the right to work for three years. I mean, the private auditor came by, and if he gave you the document, you've been working for three years. And if you don't, you don't work these three years, but he'll send this information to who needs it, and he'll send it to the competitors first, whoever pays him and everything else. I can see in this what it's seen today. You can't just walk away from that. In other words, we've already talked about what's connected here, how the self-government authorities and the relevant executive structures can order a proper audit, and it's not going anywhere. Next, dear friends, I would like to say that this will not affect the number of injuries in the country today. There are state-owned inspections, with government functions, where the state has taken control of manufacturing security. And today we think that the state has to control its functions or give up, or maybe someone private will do it better. So we're bringing in a full pun. That's why I'm in charge of the law when they're talking about what plan, like the reporter said, maybe it's necessary, but it's not edited. I don't see it in the text. So I support my previous colleague, that he needs to be sent back to the first, for reprocessing, the first, the first reading again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u140	Jaroslav Suhi, please. He's got Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to remember your student years. And first grade. Did you learn if someone in technical training who's taught longer, even I'm in history, or one of the journalists or philosophers, everyone in first class learns this kind of discipline -- job protection, and they gave a differentiated order. Why? But since the rules of protection are not simply written in blood or in health, they are written in human life. And what's so crazy is, in geometric progress, there's an increase in trauma in the country, in this huge amount, in the number of people who've been mutilated in industrial enterprises and not in industrial enterprises, but just in some shrapnel office, says that the state has launched security controls. Regardless of the fact that your law on the protection of their work, such structures, the state provides four: fire safety, radiation safety, occupational safety, hygiene – all of them do what any director or any owner of the firm will tell you, or anyone who has discovered or who, God forbid, intends to open them up: "he won't let, he won't let, he won't shut," or the seal of the prosecutor's office and so on. On this side of the audit is necessary. What worries me is that the time will not be the time for this examination of a private form of property to be a means of avoiding laws and legal requirements that are laid down by a simple person. We're in the end, our ultimate goal is to think about business, a very good thing. But the ultimate goal is to be a man of work, that's the hired worker, that's the person who's going to be mutilated, because someone in the pursuit of profit spits on all the hygiene and radiation and fire safety standards. Won't we have a conflict of interest here when a disorderly entrepreneur, or a director, or a manager, bypassing these laws, makes himself an audit as a indulgence, as a sacred letter that he will then cover up? I share that in this connection, I share the doubts of those Ukrainian national deputies who say that we will thus lose state control over regulatory labour standards. In this regard, I would recommend that the bill be adopted in the first reading. We have to get to the bottom of this thing in European and civilized. But I emphasize, but only on the first reading. One more. I would like to request a committee of distinguished colleagues, Sergey Matvienkov, to create a working group and to include Ukrainian national deputies from our Committee of Social Policy and Work. I'm sorry, I respect the professional level of members of this committee, but I would like you to remember that the issues and issues of labour protection are the issues of two social insurance funds and that we need to involve ourselves in this work and in this particular field of labour protection. I suggest you accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u142	Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Is there a problem with the operation of the work protection system? Of course there is. Our state of employment inspectorates are not working very effectively. That's true. And that's why witnessing is a pretty high level of trauma in our country, even though, let's say, the volume of industrial development in Ukraine is shrinking, let's say, compared to previous Soviet times. But the whole question or the whole problem is how to go about how to eliminate the inadequacies that exist in the protection of work or in the protection of work. Indeed, perhaps it is possible to follow the path proposed by the authors of the bill, by creating a non-state audit. But this raises a number of questions that are not answered. Isn't this really going to be used as a kind of, you know, protective depth of one structure against the other. Moreover, the right to request an audit is in a fairly wide range of subjects. On the one hand. On the other side. At least I'm not excluded from that possibility. This is an attempt to privatize work protection to some extent by a non-State auditor. So I understand, let's say there's a problem and there's a need to solve this problem, but I'm more inclined to do something else. And the point is that I think we have all the mechanisms, all the possibilities to make appropriate changes to the Labour Protection Act and through the mechanisms to amend this basic law in this important area to improve today's situation. Because we really see with you that very often between the intentions and the outcome of those good in general, the intentions, sometimes the space distance. Therefore, the faction of the Company of Ukraine believes that the way to improve the "Work Protection Act" would be more effective and therefore we tend to think that this document should be sent for further work and considered by amending the "Work Protection Act". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u144	Thank you. Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, dear voters. You know, from the rostrum, there were such disturbing expressions and concerns about the cost and expense of the owners of those objects that would be subject to audit. I think we should probably be more concerned about other things today. And given the number of victims of industrial injuries on mines, it is certainly necessary to think about people, not owners, who should certainly be concerned about working conditions being safe. Look at the law anyway, because I feel like we're discussing a law that many people haven't read. First of all, it's a framework law. Second, there are basic organizational and legal principles for auditing industry security and labour security. The other one. It is written in article 2 that audits are carried out on voluntary grounds and certainly, if changes are made to the law that it is mandatory, it will be mandatory, although, frankly, I regret to this day that it is not mandatory, because, if it is mandatory, all audit costs must be made at the cost of production, but the controlling authorities of the States not to expand their state, they should just control the implementation of this law if it were mandatory and the conclusions that make the checks on whether there are certain inaccuracies, or whether there are grounds that allow us to return to that law in the second reading. Of course, there are conclusions that the imperfect and the structure of the law itself and that we have to agree here, there is a conclusion that not everything is clearly stated, for example, in article 1 that it is defined by the auditor of the work safety and safety management system, that the physical person who has received the audit document is not prescribed. These are all questions that need to be considered when preparing this document for second reading. Conclusion. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” believes that this law is designed to protect the interests of those working in industry. Here we really have started this topic and we need to make up for it, including creating alternative ways of determining what is being done in these businesses with conclusions. However, it must be stated that the audit cannot make recommendations, but it must make recommendations that are available.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u146	Thank you. Question completed. Yeah, we'll figure it out. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the Industrial Safety and Labour Audit Act, registration number 2195. [[13:35:02]] For 304 Adopted in the first reading. The factions. Region Party - 184, Timoshenko Block - 51, “Our Ukraine” - 41, Socialists - 24, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we will now consider the Soviets. Since we have all considered the rest of the Sotovian procedure, I would like to make a motion to vote on Bills 2398, 2398-1 and 2 as well. Please be supportive. [[13:35:53]] For 349 Thank you, 349, decision taken. Yes, please, Bill 2398 on the establishment of export duty rates on black metals, black metals, and semi-manufactured metals. [[Export]] Report by one of the co-authors, Kozachenko Alexei, please. Tyre one, tyr one. 2398-1 report. No, no, no. I repeat, do not direct me, please report. Governmental and presidential unity. That's why they're going to report from the government. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u147	I see. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw the attention of the hall to the fact that this law regulates the procedure for the removal of the raw material of alloyed black metals and colored metals in accordance with the requirements of the SOTA signed by Ukraine with the members of the SOTA. As far as the law is concerned. I'm going to go to my colleagues who were in the last vocation, and I'm going to remind them that this law was introduced three times to the hall, and three times it didn't go through the last vocation. It did not go away from the fact that, unfortunately, our Ukraine and our color metallurgy had no other source of raw material than secondary, secondary raw material. That's why it was so hard last time. That law that was passed on behalf of the President today is a law that was drafted by a working group that was established between the Cabinet of Ministers and the representatives of the Parliament of the fourth convocation literally lettered. It has one "but". It proposes the introduction of expert duty rates in ad valorem, i.e. percentage and absolute definition. What's relevant to ad valorem standards, i.e. where it's proposed for the first, second, third year, respectively, 30 percent, 27 percent, 24 percent and so on, is the rules that were the conditions of the parties that are already WTO with which we signed the relevant conditions. With regard to absolute rules, where there is no less payment of import duties in the euro, these are the rules that have been drawn up, I remind you, the same parliamentary-government commission and these standards, please note, were based on world prices at that time. I mean, at the prices of the London Stock Exchange of Colorful Metals. So it has been a long time since then. And markets, world prices for the corresponding metals have increased by 2.4 to 2.8 times. I mean, the standards that are set out in the Presidential Law and are absolute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u149	They don't meet today's standards. That's why I'm proposing. On the basis of a government bill already tabled, it is a government bill that does not contain these rules at all. Because they will only contribute to the abuse of goods in customs as they do today’s world prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u150	Thank you. Bill 2398-2 will be reported by Deputy Minister of Economy Friday’s Valérie Teziyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the bill passed by the government is, again, the result of the joint work of the government, the representatives of Parliament and the producers. And this bill provides for an export duty rate of 30 per cent of the customs value of goods during the first year since the entry into WTO, with a further decrease of 3 per cent annually over six years. In doing so, I would like to point out that, at the proposed rates of export duty, only the export of junk products, color metals, which have a high degree of processing, rather than just a junkyard, will be economically appropriate. In addition, a regime is in place where exports of goods are made by specialised metallurgical processing enterprises for the availability of an expert quality certificate. For the purpose of warning abuse by operators in tax operations in the case of exports outside the customs territory of Ukraine, as the donor raw material of these goods, this will be done only under the condition of a prior payment to the budget of the amount of the export duty by money. To prevent the loss of Ukraine’s State budget from carrying out unauthorized re-export operations with scrap metal, the removal of these goods from the free trade regime is envisaged. In order to avoid any abuse in determining the customs value and determining the appropriate amount of duty to be paid, the Customs Service is expected to determine the customs value according to the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the current world prices, such as those set in the London Metal Market. I would also like to draw the attention of the national deputies that the government is proposing to change the order of payment of the added value tax to the transactions in the currency of colour metals, i.e. when these goods are exported, external economic operators will not be able to compensate for the export tax on the added value, which, in turn, will be an economic incentive in addition to the setting of the export duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u153	So it's going to be an incentive to implement the metallurgy in the internal market. The government bill has also been supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, the Committee on Finance and Banking, and I ask you to support the bill proposed for your consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u154	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Poshenko Petr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting reviewed all three proposed bills and made the following decision. The difference between the bills that are proposed for your consideration is the following. The first bill was a bill by the President, which takes into account all the requirements that Ukraine has taken upon itself when entering the World Trade Organization, and proposes to the Supreme Council to provide appropriate rates of export duty. After careful discussion on the committee, it was proposed to either the presidential bill at the second reading stage or to apply alternative ad valorem rates to the world’s prices for the corresponding colored metals when preparing alternative drafts for the first reading. The government has taken full account of the proposals made by committee members during this discussion when drafting the bill. So the difference between these bills is very small, and they're different in actual terms by taking into account the positions of the members of the committee. Yesterday, at a committee meeting when the final decision was taken, it was agreed that the committee finally supported the government bill, because it completely absorbs all the proposals that were made on the committee, and the people's deputies Kruglov and others are taking their bill to avoid creating difficulties in adopting the bill in the first reading. I point out that the committee made a decision to make it only on the first reading to do so. So that there will be a final opportunity after our representatives have returned from the delegation to negotiate from Brussels and the United States, to finally identify the text that we will be able to accept in the first reading and in general. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u156	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Then, dear fellows, I'll put it to a vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal and conclusion of the profile committee. We have three bills: 2398, 2398-1 and 2398-2. The authors of 2398, 2398-1 agree to vote on the basis of project 2398-2. That's the bill I'm putting to the vote. [[13:45:18]] For 411 Yes, can we accept it as a law as a whole? Peter Alexiovich! We can. First reading. All of it. Let's leave the first reading. Now, Peter Alexiovich, give your proposal for tax laws. Or the rostrum. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! It is known that the President’s veto came to the Supreme Council yesterday with the President’s proposals for Bill 2481. At his meeting yesterday, the committee carefully considered and supported the President’s proposals by an absolute majority. Today the meeting was resumed and a joint position of representatives of the Secretariat of the President, the government and the committee was found. And you're offered. We signed a comparative table, it has to be given out in the hall. You are asked not to stop the budget process, to consider the President's proposals and to identify yourself in order to unlock the budgetary process and allow the government to work with a tax-formed tax base on the draft State Budget Act. [[The committee took almost full account of them]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've got the point. Maybe let's do it again, I'll continue for 15 minutes. Now we're going to be looking at the next bill, and once we get the table, where once again, I repeat, the President of Ukraine's proposals, we can vote if we get it. Do we have a deal? Well, then we'll vote on how the papers get to the hall. So, right now we're supposed to be discussing with you the draft Law on Seaports, two bills, registration number 2143, 2143-1. But the authors ask me to postpone the discussion. I'm putting it to a vote: the postponement of the matter is the draft Law on Seaports. Please be supportive. [[13:48:06]] For 382 We've moved on. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code, 1037-1, is under consideration. [[concerning the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land]] [[second reading]] The same: The profile committee requests that it be moved. I ask you to vote for the transfer. [[13:48:42]] For 369 We've moved on. We went to the section “In summary procedure”. But in this regard, a decision must be made. I'm making a proposal: a decision to consider the following bills under reduced procedure. Please vote. You have a list to save time. [[13:49:12]] For 337 Decision taken. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine, registration number 2057. [[on increasing the number of mandatory services]] Report by Chukmasov Sergey Alexanderovich. Please, two minutes. Get ready for Winterfell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! Chukmasov, faction of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Telecommunications to increase the number of services. I'll say very briefly, this law refers to the introduction of a new concept, an internal rumming in Ukraine, when one operator is obliged to provide such services on the basis of a contract, another operator of such services in Ukraine. You know what operators use outside of Ukraine. Today, we are introducing such a standard so that we can use it in Ukraine. And the second kind of money that is introduced by this Law is the ability of the user today to keep the number behind them from one operator to another if you want to. These are the standards that have been introduced in most countries today, both Europe and America. This was agreed upon, and a large working group of liaison operators was formed to clarify all these circumstances, and we came to the conclusion that the Law should be adopted in the first reading and further elaborated. There were comments made on the committee, and you will be familiar with these comments by Deputy Winterfell. The Law was written by deputies from all factions of Parliament today. So I ask you to support this Law in the first reading, and by further developing it, to accept it as the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u160	Thank you. Sergey Alexanderovich, but, literally, the technical question. Because different operators can have the same numbers, so on UMC you have this number.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u161	No, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u162	And that's exactly the same number? You'll only have about 50, and there's 097.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u163	Yeah, these are exactly the different numbers, they're within if you're within the geographical code. If this is a fixed connection, we have a geographic code, it's whether the Donetsk region or the Lviv region has its own code. Mobile operators have their own code, and that does not depend on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u164	It depends.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u165	Each code has an operator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u166	Yeah, the code doesn't depend, but you keep the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u167	The number with the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u168	Along with another operator's code?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u169	Another operator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u170	And the operators agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u171	They're getting along. A table is in place with all operators.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u172	Okay, okay, okay. That's what I was wondering, because the numbers can be the same, the codes are different.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u173	Not a table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u174	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u176	This will improve the listening, improve the listening process. To improve, Eugene Ivanovich, listening is true. But yesterday we passed a law not to listen. In the first reading. Yes, please, Zimin Evgen Igorovich is the head of the Subcommittee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications discussed at its meeting on 28 November the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Telecommunications, Registration No. 2047. The purpose of the bill is to improve legislation in the field of telecommunications by introducing additional mobile services for consumers, as well as by supporting the introduction and development of new telecommunications technologies in Ukraine. We have, the committee has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with observations that it is possible to take this bill on the basis of these observations. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Telecommunications, on the basis of the above changes to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. [[on increasing the number of services]] You have the text of these changes, but I'll read them. And I want to report that the committee has worked very closely on this issue. We had a meeting. A working group was created, and several meetings were held. We took note of the observations made by all the telecommunications market subjects. O.K.! It's a change of pace. In article 1 of the Law on telecommunications, the proposed revision of the term “preservation of the subscriber number” should be supplemented by another condition: “The provision of this telecommunications service after full settlement of the subscriber with the operator”. In the proposed wording of the term ‘rooming national’, add one more condition to the provision of this telecommunications service regarding the absence of a subscriber from the network coverage of his operator. Suggested in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u178	Thank you. Every national MP, including your faction colleague, had to read the law himself. It's none of your business. You're out of time. Have a seat, please. And you're going to prove to him that he doesn't lynch. Will We Discuss? Nobody insists? I then vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine to increase the number of compulsory services. Registration number 2047. Please vote. Those with mobile phones are voting. [[13:55:25]] For 412 According to the vote, each of us has the following apparatus: 412 votes in favour. A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Waste, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation is under consideration. Registration number 2368. Santa Claus Olena Anatoliyevna, please. Head of the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation. Get Bronjikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u179	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is given to the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Waste, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation. What is the essence of the changes that are being made? Today, Ukraine's legislation, like other countries, is not self-sufficient in nuclear technology, nuclear installations. We use foreign technologies. Modernization is under way today, and in the daytime order, the continuation of the resources of nuclear installations that exist today. Today we have a completely legislative, sub-legislative solution to the issue of the admission of foreign citizens, non-citizens who work in appropriate firms when they do some work, and some projects are being carried out at nuclear facilities. But there is one moment. The fact is that in fact only in the presence of Ukrainian, appropriate Ukrainian officials. What limits this point, and why are these changes made? A simple example. One of the most successful projects related to the elimination of the Chernobyl AES accident is a project that is now nearing completion of the stabilisation of the Hidden object. It is carried out jointly by a consortium of Ukrainian and Russian experts. When Russian experts work alongside Ukrainians on a particular object, it's quite obvious that going to the same object with another relevant official is holding back the project. Similarly, some work on objects in the future will cause problems when it comes to some major upgrades, and the extension of the exploitation period, and so on. Therefore, it is proposed that for such specific work, the relevant central executive body decide to allow a limited circle of foreign experts to carry out these work without proper assistance. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u180	Thank you. Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostinović, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u181	Respectable colleagues, praise to God, and nuclear energy are becoming an open sector, and we attract equipment there to carry out construction and assembly work, including organizations that are not residents of Ukraine. It's at the Chernobyl station, at the Chernobyl site, as she said, and it's essentially going for all nuclear stations. In this regard, as equipment and work are accompanied by individuals, there is a system of admission of these people to work that is established by the relevant public administration and regulatory authority. This makes no sense to accompany them, since they are not hikers, they are specific workers. In this regard, the Government also proposes to amend legislation that would allow these people to work on their own. The TEC Committee has considered the issue carefully and invites the Supreme Council to adopt this law on first reading as a basis. Why the foundation? Because there is a question of stateless people. Although the relevant authorities of Ukraine have agreed, we want to analyse this part, as is permitted by world legislation, of stateless persons. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u182	Thank you. Vladimir Konstantinovich, is there no need to speak? I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Waste, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation, registration number 2368. [[14:00:26]] For 363 The Law was adopted in the first reading. The draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act, registration number 2319, is under consideration. Antônits Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a temporary minister in charge of emergency situations. Get ready for Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u183	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for an improvement in the procedure for obtaining work permits from the authorities of state fire control. The draft law defines the list of objects to which public fire authorities do not form, clearly defines the reasons for issuing the permit, or for deciding whether to refuse to issue it, and sets a time limit for making decisions. One of the main features of the bill is the reduction in the number of objects that require permission to start work from the State Fire Department. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a declarative principle whereby the holder acquires the right to take certain steps to carry out an economic activity without obtaining a document of a permissive nature by informing the administrator or the authorising authority of responsibility, the conformity of its material and technical basis to the requirements of legislation. The implementation of the proposals contained in the bill will simplify the procedure for initiating the activities of the operators. Yes, if almost 91,000 permits were issued by state fire authorities in 2005, the adoption of the bill would reduce the number of permits by 70 percent, which would in turn contribute to the development of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as to a significant reduction in corruption. The environmental, environmental, environmental, environmental, and disaster relief committees unanimously supported the bill. Please accept the bill in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u184	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please sit down. Yes, the head of the committee. But I don't see anything. And who from the committee can? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u185	Scubenko Vladimir, head of the technogenic and radiation security subcommittee. The Committee has considered the bill and strongly requests that all members of the people, independent of factions, support all our many-suffering entrepreneurs. Because it's the only one, maybe a bill that relieves entrepreneurs of extra burden. Right here, the deputy minister said that 70 per cent of us would have to reduce the issuance of these firefighters prior to the opening of the business. Under this bill, every businessman will have to declare his own fire safety, notify the firefighters and start his work before opening the business. And do not walk before that, for months, beating the thresholds, asking, "Give me an opportunity to work on my business." This is not the case either with housing facilities or with technology, radiation security enterprises, but mainly with small and medium-sized businesses. Therefore, the Committee unanimously supported this and I ask all members of the people to also support our entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-29-m0.u186	Yes, thank you, have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? Need to Discuss? None. Then I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. Registration number 2319. Please vote. [[14:05:01]] For 383 Decision taken. There were proposals in general. Is there no objection? I won't. Then I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. Registration number 2319. Please vote. [[14:05:33]] For 384 The law is passed as a law. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components is under consideration. [[for extra rest days]] Registration number 2081. The author of the bill is asking our colleague Stasov to withdraw it. I am voting on this motion to withdraw the bill. [[14:06:14]] For 373 The decision is taken, the bill of review has been withdrawn. Dear colleagues, they're handing out the table. Yeah, I'm betting on a vote on who to look at the fight right now. Bill returned by the President, please. The bill, now, now, for the transcript, the bill. Dear colleagues, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Now we're working on committees asking to get a table, because tomorrow we're going to be the first to consider this bill.
