ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:06]] There were 364 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the day of the birth of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Pavlovich. Let us welcome him and wish him good health. Dear colleagues! Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 17 January 2006. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: Four laws were passed, seven bills were adopted on the basis of which five bills were designed to be drafted, and six bills were rejected. Well, come to work, there'll be more. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I hereby announce the withdrawal of the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Mikola Grigorovovich Joulinski. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like the factions to sign up, more specifically, to file a statement. And now there's a question for the MPs. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Ms. CHICHANOVA to the President of Ukraine for ensuring the implementation of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Ivanov, to whom the City Council expressed its mistrust. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:04:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies (KRAVČUK, GAVRISH, SHURMA and others) to the President of Ukraine on the protection of the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people, on the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine and on the national security of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:18]] For-182 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:40]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Mr Andrija ŠKILA to the President of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Interior, Head of the Board of Directors, Prosecutor-General, on the publication of information on corruption and the abuse of office by former President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Pinchuk, in the privatization of the Association of Shareholders “Crovoristal”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:25]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine, the prime minister's duty to contact the Russian Federation to return the savings of Ukrainian citizens. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:57]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Karpachov from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights in connection with the violation of her oath by the Commissioner. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council for delay from the executive bodies of the local government of Cherkasa in the separation of the land area under the garage of the first group of the Great War. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVA to the executive duty of the Prime Minister to eliminate the effects of the environmental situation associated with the destruction of individual areas of the Black Sea Coast. Alexander GOLUBA to the acting Prime Minister's duty of payment for the transport of a disabled person as a result of an accident in production. Jury SOLOMATAN to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General in connection with the failure of the Ministry of Health and the Attorney-General's Office to explain the report of the Henprocurator's Press Office of 8 December 2005 on the poisoning of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. Katerina SAMOLIK is under the prime minister's responsibility to prevent the liquidation of the Energy Stadium in the city of Vyhgrad. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister for the financial security of the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Act at the regional level. John TOMIĆA to the prime minister’s responsibility to stop the smuggling of meat and meat products and to transit them into third countries. Ms. Alexander KARENKA is acting as Prime Minister for the 30th-thyylmeter zone around the Hmelnicka AES town of Shepetyvka and four of Slavutsk district’s population. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the inclusion in the road construction plan of the villages of Fursa and Bilocerkow Region of Kiev. VADIM MISSURA to the acting prime minister's responsibility to ensure the payment of scholarships to students and students, who are at full government level at the minimum of living. Eugena LAPINA to the prime minister's executive responsibility for the situation in the Suma region in connection with the increase in gas prices. A group of national deputies to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, the acting Minister of Education and Science for Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science of Education of the Ministry of Education of the Interior. Lucenkom, who violate popular moral and Christian values, incite hostility, promote violence, severely violate the requirements of education legislation, and disregard articles 21, 24, 28, 68 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[KARENKA, Gavrish, Rabbit]] The Prime Minister's responsibility to raise pensions for the disabled of the Great War of the Army is to be exercised. Eugene LAPINA to the acting prime minister's duty to remove the mineral fertilizers of the open stock company Sumhimprom under the spring and summer jobs. Mr. Alexander KARENKA and Mr. Gavrish to serve as Prime Minister, head of the Luhansk District Government Administration for the provision of coal mining families in the Lugansk region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE OF THE prime minister’s responsibility to target the gasification of the village of Medvediah in the region of Žitomir. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Court of Auditors for non-compliance with the Ministry of Justice requirements of the Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense, as determined by the Ukrainian Centre of Law Studies, the executing officer of orders for the issue of an updated text of the Constitution of Ukraine. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the prime minister’s responsibility to assess actions by the Russian Federation regarding hydro-invasion facilities and other facilities owned by Ukraine. GREGORY BONDARENKA to serve as Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the water supply system of the village of Fursa Bilocerkow district of Kiev. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE OF THE prime minister’s responsibility to appoint a “Tavria” car for residents of the city of Berdichev, U.S.A. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the prime minister's duty regarding the deliberate bankruptcy of the open shareholders' company “Lvivsilmash”, the ownership of land and property of the enterprise and the criminal inaction of local authorities. MICILI REDOVSKI to the Prime Minister’s responsibility to gradually move to the State and municipal higher education institutions free of charge. John BOKHO to serve as Prime Minister, head of the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. Mr. JOURNEY CARMAZINA is acting as Prime Minister for the appointment of the head of the Squire District State Administration of the Kyiv Region of Olijnik for violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, for the restoration of the rights in violation of the pension rights of persons working as a concertmaster of a higher educational institution. Vassil NADRAVIA to perform the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in order to avoid the imbalance in the establishment of “deserved” allowances in different years. Igora ŠURMI to the Attorney General for gross violations of the law by the officials of the village council of Stari Bezradiči Obuchi district in dealing with land issues and for granting permission for the restoration of the work of an environmentally hazardous timber business. Petra KUZYMEN to the Attorney General regarding the legality of arresting police officers of a citizen named Holubiev. Alexia KOZACZANKA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA on the violation by officials of the Odessa tax service and the area of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for the cause of material damage to the State's interests, particularly through the illegal privatization of the state property of the company “Mikolayivska TEC”. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General on the legality of decisions taken by the Council of the Red Cross in Lviv district regarding the construction of the city. Anton KISSE to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of the Keramic labour group during the seizure of their respective parts in the statutory capital of the society. SLABENKA to the Attorney-General for improper support by the Public Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of a criminal case for beating citizens on 23 October 2004 at the Central Electoral Commission. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, the prime minister's duty to violate the legislation of the Ministry of Health on 06.12.2005 to tender for the purchase of medical equipment. Anatoly of the scribe to the Attorney General on the groundless accusation and political persecution of the former deputy chief of the Department of Internal Affairs in the province of Dugan. Tamara Proscuratou and Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the illegal activity of the citizen of Horobec in the position of the village head of Kozin. MICHAEL APPROACHED to the Attorney General, the Head of the RNB, the Head of the Board of Directors of Internal Affairs for the verification of the authenticity of information distributed in the online publications on the facts of fraud in the coal industry of the first deputy head of the Luhansk district administration of Kobeva. Mikoli CATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, regarding the extraordinary situation that took place at the Beregian boarding school in Zacarpathian district and the involvement of those responsible. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General for ignoring the local executive authorities and for maintaining the demands of residents of House No. 39 of Kizelgur city of Kirovgrad. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the elimination of abuse by officials of the district prosecutor's office and the militia's division in the Seminovian region of the Poltav region in the investigation of road traffic accidents. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for violating the term of criminal investigation by the Investigation Department of the Suvorov District Police Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Herson region. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General for financial and economic activities of the management of the Santana sanatorium in the city of Lviv Region. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission, on the examination of the facts of the gross violation by the judge of the Malin District Court of Law by Jermolenko of the criminal case of the illegal use of the Bukini granite genealogy. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General, Head of the Board of Directors of the Electoral Campaign “Our Ukraine” by Roman Immortal on the overthrow of the constitutional system in Ukraine. [[WORTH, CORSACK, AND OTHERS]] JOURNEY CARMAZIN to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for the restoration of the damaged rights of the residents of the homes that were to be reconstructed according to the order of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration. MICOLI RUDKOVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the High Council of Justice, acting as Head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district, the Attorney General for the restoration of housing rights in the city of Nizhina. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court on the illegal alienation of state property on the roots of the airline “Aerosworld” in Borispol Airport. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Board of Directors, Attorney General, on the abuse of office by officials of the tax authorities, the organization of targeted numerous inspections of the “UkrPlastik” stock company. [[GREGOROVIC, YVANCHO, ASADZEV, AND OTHERS]] WOLDIMIR'S PEACE falls under the responsibilities of the Minister of Defense for the nonpayment of cash compensation to the members of the forces of the Plains region for the unutilized goods. Anatholics of the Writership to the Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the provision of legal and diplomatic assistance to Ukrainian citizens — members of the crew of a Greek company arrested at the port of Durman of South Africa. Larissa VAZANKO is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to ensure adequate and accessible treatment for leukemia patients and to provide the necessary assistance. ZARAY KATUSH’S Acting Minister of Health, Head of the Social Insurance Fund, on a temporary loss of work due to a situation involving the distribution of health - care routes to the Crimea Department of the Fund. Mikoli Sherschun and Valeria SAMOPLAV are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to ensure the full functioning of the HemoDialism Center of the Equinox Hospital. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Ministry of Health’s active responsibility for the treatment of leukemia sufferer living in the village of Hayshin Preyaslav - Hmelnicki district. VICTOR DIVORCE OF THE Acting Ministry of Health for the organization of medical examination and treatment abroad, resident of the city of Berdichev of Žitomir district. Igora SKIRI to the Acting Ministry of Health for the violation of effective legislation by the Deputy Head of the Council for the National Registration of Medical Equipment and Medical Devices by Demchenkom. Ms. Vladimir ÄŠENKA is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to assist in the treatment of residents of the village of Drabów in the Cherkas region. Oleg BILORUS under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance for Underfunded Financing in 2005 for the construction of an underwater pipeline in the village of Rasavka and Halch Kagarlic district of Kyiv district. VADIM MISSURA to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to increase expenditure on public science programs, programs. Mr. Volodymira CHAPPETIN is under the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science for Information on the Adoption of Orphan Children by Foreign Citizens. To the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the provision of social housing for the many children of the Lisichenko family. Larissa VACHENCO is under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture and Tourism to improve the material and technical base of cultural institutions and to keep them in proper condition. Kirila POLIČUCA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Economics with regard to the gasification of the village of Mali Kupil of the district of Kyiv. Group of Deputies to the Acting Minister of Economics, Head of the State Property Fund, on the protection of social rights and guarantees for employees of the metal combination “Cruvoristal”. [[CORSACOVE, VERNIDOUBOV, AND OTHER]] John DRACH under the responsibilities of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, acting as Head of the Lviv City to comply with the Ukrainian Pension Act and to ensure the legitimate rights of employees of the LORT State Factory. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to protect the citizens ’ constitutional rights to social security. Alexander MASSENKA is under the executive responsibility of the Minister of Justice for the execution of the court decision on the renewal of the group of employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Orsic Sugar Plant. Sergija ŽIŽKA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the Board for the establishment of real owners of Rosukre Energo. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Director-General of the “University” regarding the restoration of the traffic of the suburban train along the “Vronisque Deaf” route of the Sumo region. Anatolya RACHANSKA to the Director General of Skruzalnica regarding the reconstruction of the Saki train station complex, taking into account the conditions required for spinach disabled people. Obstacle CLIMPUSH to the Head of the State Customs Service for the enforcement of the requirements of legislation for the import into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport as humanitarian aid. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio on the increase in wage rates for journalists and employees of public media and public information agencies. John BOKHO to the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Communication about the release of public - ordered printed books and the setting of criteria for determining works issued at public expense. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government for a delay in resolving the issue of gasification of villages of the town type Right Winnicki district. Mr. Volodymira ŠEPETIN to the Prosecutor of the Kharkiv District for violations by members of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Krasnokut district of Kharkiv district of law. Dear National Deputies! 80 parliamentary inquiries have been made. According to factions: “Ukraine’s regions” – 7, Communists – 14, “Ukraine” – 10, National Party – 4, BUT – 5, SPI-4, National Block – 3, SDPU(o) – 17, NPP - 5, “Rebirth” – 1, NRU-4, “One Ukraine” – 2 Postfraction – 4. Let us move on to the presentations of authorized representatives with applications, information, reports. Vladimir Silent from Rebirth, please. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u2	Vladimir Movchan, 31 constituency, rebirth faction of the Political Party Rebirth. Honourable National Deputies, the faction of the political party "Rebirth" refers to Parliament, the government and the electorate on the situation that has arisen as a result of the country's acquisition of political reform. From the very first days of action, the reform has emerged from the unexpected unsurprising side, from the collection of accounts between the government and the parliament, where the defeated people of Ukraine have found themselves, and the country is involved in the pre-election chaos. Today, there is no doubt that the proposed alternative to polytreform does not guarantee the stability of the political institutions in the country, and the work of the legislative and executive branches of government is clearly agreed upon. Voters don't want to wake up in a country where there's a polytreform that lets the government go free by Parliament, but they don't want a new one. In contrast with two branches of government, the immediate needs of the districts have gone away. Tell me, do local voters have an interest in the political coalitions of polytreforms? They need to keep the house warm so there's light, there's gas so they don't raise the price. Sadly, the situation is exacerbated by the resignation of a government that has been able to solve pressing problems. Another bitter manifestation of polytreform is that fundamental values of democracy are questioned. What is democracy when tomorrow’s uncertainty creates conflicts where there is a need for consolidation and a single platform? Unfortunately, Ukraine did not pass a democracy test, which became evident last parliamentary week. The future problems Ukraine will face in a hidden proportional election system: people who are virtually deprived of elective powers, they choose not people, but parties, but they cannot learn the lists of 45 political forces that will participate in the parliamentary campaign. It is highly probable that people will vote for the famous name, for the famous popular athlete or artist. In the majority electoral system, most deputies would now be in their districts with reports of work being done in front of the electorate. The position of the parliamentary faction of the political “Rebirth” party on the need for polytreform is as follows: the current form of polytreform is certainly subject to correction, especially if you recall the situation in which it was accepted: with a grave breach of procedure. The way these changes were made and their essences were never explained to society. The “Resurrection” faction of the Political Party calls on all political forces to consult a dialogue on the correction of the political platform. How to correct it: we can also approach society in this room, or we can turn to society on the basis of mutual understanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u3	Viacheslav Koval, please, from the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Kowal, Viacheslav Koval Please. Prepare Igor Ostrash. While Kowal is preparing, Igor Ostas, please invite you to the show. Prepare Gregory the Cauldron.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u4	Igor Ostrash, PRP faction, “Citizen PRA-PRP block”. Dear friends, tonight is a generous evening, and may this year be a generous year for all Ukrainian families and tonight will be a delicious Ukrainian corner. Dear colleagues, since December 22, 2005, the Russian plant “Urengoy” has carried out so-called bottom-up work in Ukrainian territorial waters. At the same time, there is no agreement with the Ukrainian side on diplomatic channels, as required by the spirit of good neighbourly relations and bilateral agreements. The chronology of Earthquake shows that more than ten days have been done with the crossing of the Ukrainian State Border line. But it is not surprising that deep - seated work was carried out during negotiations on the supply of Russian gas to Ukraine. I'm afraid it's not a random run -- it looks like political art preparation to influence their course. So talk about Ukrainians starting a story with lighthouses to suppress tensions in Russian-Ukrainian relations, to put it mildly incorrect, because for almost a month, the Ukrainian side had not made any official statements about violations of the state border of Ukraine. And another "deja vu". At the time, Russian troops of the Black Sea fleet marched in bravo in the territory of the Ukrainian reserves in full - arms training that was not in agreement with Ukraine, as the corresponding agreement required. Then our Russian colleagues assured us that this would never happen again. However, Russian marines continue to move in the same way in Ukrainian territory. And now, in fact, they are interfering with the internal affairs of Ukraine, putting on the Ukrainian land the tablets of the “Territory of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation”. And so unfortunately, the question is, where is the next pitch going to go? And for what political purpose? I studied carefully the agreements and additions to the Black Sea fleet and did not see any lighthouses, I emphasize, any lighthouses. And that's why it's the property of the Ukrainian state. Moreover, out of a hundred lighthouses, nearly 65 are controlled by the Ukrainian State. We are also surprised by the position of some political forces that do not need Ukrainian lighthouses, which have long since lost Ukrainian national lighthouses and are oriented towards lighthouses in foreign waters. It is also surprising that they refer to the student brotherhood as young men with extremist organizations. So these are our children with you who, when they sacrifice their vacations, protect Ukrainian property and Ukrainian territory. And they're the patriots, and the sooner they change you to parliament, the better, because it's time for the young, and it's time to set things straight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u5	Grigory Kaletnik, a faction of “Ukraine”, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u6	Dear TVs, radios, respectable colleagues, respected countrymen who are guilty. Yesterday, in this room, we once again resisted government officials on a simplified enterprise registration procedure. People's legitimate indignation is fueled by the fact that without any agreement, the local authorities are selling sugar factories, the food supply points, charging their own pockets, eliminating their jobs, the whole social sphere that worked in these powerful businesses. However, tens of thousands of harmonys and hundreds of days are needed to register a new business in a newly closed club. So I was pleasantly surprised to hear from the people at the reception in Winnice that the local head of the district government of Dombrowski for the sake of good, despite the lack of law, was personally providing a quick solution to the issues. In one month, citizens from Belarus, Kiev and the villages of the Red Suma region were accepted by Dombrovsky and liked it so much that two companies, the Podilski cheese and the Stryanalog, registered, issued seals and received a prize from the governor of the land in 50 hectares belonging to the Research Farm, the Institute of Feeds. People who work on this earth are told that they can't get at least ten hundred or invalids from Winnitz because they can't even get to the administration, they just can't write them down. And here's a citizen from Suma County. Here they are, asking the people of the deputies, tell the President to see who he is protecting the people or the "love friends", whom he has appointed to guarantee that they will not steal. And the special operations with the land that Dombrovsky is carrying along with his cross - headed District Council of John will rob people for tens of millions in foreign currency. Will he understand that, with the permission to say, the governor is a simple man from the village of Bokhonika, if he ever waits for his turn to come to him at his reception and complains, and asks to protect his land interests if the same official has done all he can to ensure that a simple man is robbed. By giving orders to take the land to the institute and give it to commercial private entities, State official Dombrovski is a criminal offence under article 364 and 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In addition, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, such actions are corrupt. That is why I am addressing the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov, the Attorney General of Ukraine Medvedzka, to conduct an examination in the order of article 97 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. People hope that not only in words but also in deeds will you show that you separate the criminal business from power. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Acting Prime Minister and Prosecutor General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u7	Viacheslav Koval, please give your word. Get Valentine's Teeth ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u8	Viacheslav Koval, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Please listen to the statement made by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. The basic issue in Ukraine of the Russian Black Sea fleet has become acute. The faction of the Ukrainian people’s movement was convinced by the following reasons. First of all, because of the criminal inaction of the former authorities, there were no real steps to bring the Ukrainian property into line, which was temporarily used by the Russian side and, in some cases, illegally using commercial activities. While receiving cheap energy resources, Yanukovich’s authorities simply turned their eyes to the eastern neighbor, and the violent facts of the repeated violations of the treaties on the Russian side closed their eyes. Secondly, since its founding in Ukraine, the Russian fleet has never conducted a proper Ukrainian property audit, which has been used by the Russian side. Thirdly, there is no secret of the repeated violation by the Russian side of the conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Under the basic agreements on matters of the Black Sea fleet, Russia has confirmed Ukraine’s right of ownership of all objects of immovable property and land used by the Black Sea fleet of the former USSR for Ukraine, and only part of them, as defined in Appendices Nos 2 and No 3 to the Black Sea Fleet split agreement, have been leased to the government of the Russian Federation for use by the Black Sea Fleet. Objects of navigational hydrographic purpose, such as the Yaltin lighthouse, are not included in the listed lists, and any additional Ukrainian-Russian contracts for their transfer to the Russian side are not available. Thus, the military formations of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation without any legal basis, i.e. without the existence of a valid Ukrainian-Russian agreement, retain part of the navigational hydrographic objects for which Russia has recognised the ownership of Ukraine. The People’s Movement faction claims that the time has come for order in its own home. We will not allow any state to own its territory. Moreover, security in Ukraine’s territorial waters is an obligation of the Ukrainian side, and it is only possible to do so under the control of all navigational and hydrographic objects. We are convinced that only transparency with our neighbors will allow us to build good neighbourly relations and to ensure the full sovereignty of Ukraine in existing borders. The faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine claims that urgent consideration of the matter and the establishment of an appropriate commission is necessary. Parliamentarians, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, should be actively involved in sorting out the issue of the Russian Black Sea fleet's appeals in Ukraine. We have to put order in our own home, because we have Ukraine alone. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u9	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko authorized me to make the following statement. Recent developments related to the gas war, the resignation of the Government and the dramatic deterioration of the socio-economic, socio-political situation in the country give rise to the following inconsolable conclusion. The executive branch, headed by the President of Ukraine, is not in line with the requirements that the ruling political elites are facing today. The most serious argument that testifies to the fairness of this conclusion is the fact that, instead of deliberate and active creative work for the benefit of Ukraine, President Yushchenko is persistently engaged in a very dangerous occupation, creating an image of the enemy. He was distracted by Julia Timoshenko, then by Russia, now by parliament and destructive political forces within the country. President Yushchenko intends to discuss and name the enemies of the people of Ukraine at a meeting of the National Security Council today. Whether it is unproductive or dangerous to look for an enemy, whether domestic or external, is worth mentioning. It is not clear that this policy is convincingly evidenced by the unwillingness to address the problems of the State or the inability of President Yushchenko and his team to see, understand and address the serious issues of the State's life. Thus, there is now every reason to claim that, unfortunately, President Yushchenko has not only failed to implement a single paragraph of his pre-election programme, “The Ten Steps Toward People”, but he has not even been able to come close to solving the problem. It is now clear that life, as he likes to say, has not only not improved the average citizen of Ukraine, but has also deteriorated significantly. Instead of consolidating the people, we see their separation. Instead of economic prosperity, we see stagnation. President Yushchenko has failed to see or does not want to see that instead of one criminal-oligarchy clan that was able to be eliminated as a result of the orange revolution, he personally oversees the formation and enrichment of another criminal-oligarchy clan. Conclusion. President Yushchenko became the president of the people's will. Today, unfortunately, there is every reason to talk about the total disappointment of his activities. Hatred and contempt may be the next step. Therefore, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko has something to think about today and to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u11	Igor Šurma is invited from the faction of the SDPU. Get Michael Stepan ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u12	The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the electoral “NOT YES”!, generally accepts the recognition by the President of Ukraine of the need for democratic transparent and fair elections, which is evidenced by a new but already old initiative to sign a memorandum with an appropriate meaning. [[united]] However, the next insight of the guarantor is a warning. Because in a country that calls itself democratic and legal, a similar memorandum is nonsense. Ensuring fair and transparent elections is a direct and direct duty of power, as defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The President of the Democratic State, the guarantor of the Constitution, does not call for fair elections, but provides them with all available and accessible methods. The deputy faction of the SDPU (O), the electoral “NOT-TA!” states: the President's initiative to sign a memorandum on fair elections is nothing more than a substitute for a defined system of political responsibility in the country, a substitute for the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's laws, including the election of Ukraine's national deputies. Any adjustment to the establishment of legal relations in a state with a democratic system is made solely by the laws of Ukraine, not by the declaration of purposes, which is directly a memorandum of initiation. We stress that the President of Ukraine, the Honorary Head of the People's Union, “Our Ukraine”, should probably know, with great experience, that the proposed memorandum is an amnesty that his team is trying to maintain in a year of impunity, irresponsibility, is the indulgence that the authorities want to extort for pre-planned violations during the election campaign. That is what politicians should be aware of when they propose to put their signature under a unique paper called a memorandum. The latest developments in the country, namely, cynical, illegal, anticonstitutional statements by top-level officials, the direct intervention of party officials of the power of power, the responsibility of the minister and the President himself in the activities of the country’s legislative body, directly testify to the true position of power in the electoral campaign. The parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” demands that any speculation be stopped around the issue of fair and transparent elections. [[united]] We urge the President of Ukraine not to dream, but finally to mention the constitutional duty and to take urgent steps to create equal opportunities for all the political forces in the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Real and declarative elimination of administrative resources. The memorandum, which ensures fair elections in the state, already exists, is the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Stepanov, please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Georgie Kruczkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u14	Dear Head! Deputies! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the situation surrounding the Social Protection of War Children Act. The draft State Budget Act for 2006 was intended to stop the operation of Article 5, paragraph 7, and Article 6, of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children, which meant that the Act of 1 January 2006 would not enter into force. On December 20, 2005, when the draft State Budget Act was re-readed, a decision was taken to target 700 million people. Money to provide a 20% discount on the payment of utility services to children of war. In addition, it was decided from the second half of 2006 to increase the level of retirement for children of war, which opened the way for a step-by-step introduction of this important law for our society. However, article 77, paragraph 17, of the Public Budget Act, has been published practically in the old edition, namely: Article 6, paragraph 7, of the Law on Social Protection of War Children, which blocks not only the operation of the Law but also Article 110 of the Law on State Budget. In order to eliminate this inadequacy, members of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine have introduced a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. [[Registration number 8683]] It provides for the deletion of article 77, paragraph 17, of the Budget Act. And by article 10, establish the phased introduction of aid to children of war provided for in article six of the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War, as a result of the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2006. This will allow the operation of article 110 of the Budget Act to be unlocked and 700 million allocated. Money to finance aid for community services to children of war. The Socialist Party faction insists on an urgent review of the bill. This needs to be done immediately, to be done today, to do so. So that the funds provided for in the budget go to the funding of the Social Protection for Children of War Act. This bill is included in the order of the day last and may not be in the order of the day. Therefore, we insist that his consideration take place at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u15	Thank you. I would just like to say, for this matter, that the committee will consider today, and we've put it on schedule for tomorrow. The committee didn't look at him. We'll be the first to consider it tomorrow. Dear colleagues, the speech is given by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I have a statement to make by the faction of Communists about the conflict around the hydrography facility in Crimea. The faction is outraged by the new artificial tightening of relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which raised the issue of navigational hydroponics and maritime safety. Instead of resolving the problem through negotiations, the reconciliation of positions, as provided for in the treaties concluded between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, has been violent. Events around hydrography sites in Crimea are used to suppress passions, Russophobia, even worsening and already corrupt Ukrainian - Russian relations, creating a public image of Russia as an enemy of Ukraine, its potential opponent. Some politicians, retired generals, have already been told in the media about the need to have nuclear weapons in Ukraine to repel the aggressor. At the same time, the President of Ukraine keeps his silence, does not take action to resolve the conflict. Further escalation of the conflict threatens the national security of Ukraine, the friendly relationship with the Russian Federation, our strategic partner. The faction calls for the resignation of the acting foreign minister, Tarasyuk, whose destructive position is damaging to Ukraine’s national interests and security. That's what I'd like to add, dear colleagues. The question of the belongings of these objects is not the subject of discussion. They are in the territory of Ukraine, they are ours, and this is not the subject of discussion. The problem is different. The problem is that the agreement on the status and conditions of the fleet in Ukraine, in article 8, paragraph 5, and in additions mentioned here, stated that the order in which the parties to navigational hydrographic security systems in the Black Seas and the Azova Seas and the list of these funds should be defined separately. The agreement was signed in 1997 and ratified in March 1999. During this time neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine have done anything to sit at the table and solve this problem. That is why this problem is the result of provocative actions that have been deliberately taken to make relations worse in order to accelerate the accession to NATO in order to harm Ukraine's national interests. Therefore, the provocations must be stopped from sitting at the negotiating table and resolved. Everyone has to do what they do, not do what they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u17	Yes, please take your seats. Please take your seats. Please. Thank you, I understand, I beg of you, distinguished national MPs, everyone has his position, in every political power. Give them a chance, let them say it. I would like to say once again, my dear colleagues, here, in this matter, they have to take full responsibility. Remember from the 98th, which were the governments, what were the ministers, what were they doing? All of it. Please, Igor Yuhgnowski, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch. And please, let's work quietly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable deputies, Yukhnowsky, the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, the constituency of “Our Ukraine”. I want to talk today about the need for Ukraine to join the world trade organisation. Ukraine was known to have a positive economic balance in 2004. And in the second half of that year, two incredibly scary camps were built that threw the country into an economic crisis. First, the pension was irresponsibly raised to 284 bracelets by Viktor Yanukovic, and then a bill was passed, according to which the increase was permanent and it was further increased by 50 bracelets per month for each pensioner. It had an unusually positive social character, because the pensioners were getting a good pension, but on the other hand, it threw the country into an incredible economic stop from which the country had to leave. This exit was sought by the Government of Timoshenko, who was trying to find money in the budget, and for this it was made a variety of harsh conditions for the removal of any privileges for special economic zones to seek money. This is what the government of Yehanurov does in order to find money in 2005 and 2006. In itself, the increase in pensions is positive. On the other hand, we have to find the money. Where can I find this money? This money is to be found in the Pension Fund. How should this be done? By increasing the credits to the Pension Fund. How can we increase the counting on the Pension Fund? By increasing the wages of the population. This is one of the most important tasks. At the same time, however, inflation cannot be allowed to increase, or increase, the product that is to follow immediately. Therefore, the only way out of this situation is to open up markets and join the WTO, that is to enter the organised open market of Ukraine in relation to other countries. And here's the bill that we have before us that makes some minor but important amendments to a number of laws that allow these laws to be normalized with the relevant laws in the European community, and thus help Ukraine join the WTO. Ladies and gentlemen, entering the WTO is the only way out of the current economic crisis. The MPs must take this very seriously. And I ask you to uphold the law that stands first in the agenda and to take this matter very seriously and consciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u19	Lilia Grigorovich from the “Our Ukraine” faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u20	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, distinguished national MPs, a prominent Ukrainian community. First of all, I'd like to address you. Because I'm speaking almost the last, I mean, don't be surprised, people good, everything you hear today from this rostrum. Because here are the mystical scenarios, and the search for inner and outer enemies, and the voracious vortex roaring over us, and that's not the case. This is because there are both political electoral and subjective ambitions. Divide everything by ten, and then you'll have the truth. And everything will be just like you, my dears, and you will want it on March 26th. On behalf of the faction “Our Ukraine ” would like to highlight the following. If the legislative body adopts an imperfect law, it changes it, if the legislative body makes a wrong decision, it should be repealed. This is according to both Ukrainian and international legislation. I'm talking about the 10th of January ruling on the removal of government, which in three and a half months did what they didn't do and in a few years, prevented both the budget and the energy crisis. My colleagues in Parliament are very supportive that this was the case. However, both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine were invited to Parliament for tomorrow. Of course, it would be possible to invite the patriarchs of all churches, the Ukrainian international elite, Kofi Annan and the OSCE Commissioner, but the only legal solution to the illegal situation on January 10th is to abolish the illegal decision on the executive duty of the government and its resignation, because it cannot be, and it would obviously be appropriate to take the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court, because it had to be done not yesterday, but yesterday. At the same time, I would like to address you, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, because you have invited the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, I am confident that they are ready for a full-time dialogue, for the Supreme Council and are personally responsible, stresses this on behalf of the faction “Our Ukraine” at the events of tomorrow. Why? Because on January 10, two hours before the government resigned, you were on the air in an interview saying that you could not destroy the army during the war, but in two hours you destroyed it. So I insist that it doesn't happen tomorrow. At the same time, I would like to point out that tomorrow, on the day of the great Christian holiday of Vodhrest, the Ukrainian Parliament has a chance to clear itself of the blemish of legal errors, to take the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court and to annul the wrong decision to resign the government on January 10th. And I hope that this is how we finally get out of this wrong coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u21	Yes. Valérie Assadchev is invited to the presentation. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk. Valerius Assadchev of the Ukrainian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party Statement from the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Since January 1, 2006, changes to the Ukrainian Constitution have become a parliamentary state. The responsibility for the situation in the country now rests with the parliamentary majority, which was formed in the Supreme Council during the Kuchma regime of the pro-industry forces and communists. Now they have been joined by a faction of Yulia Timoshenko, who, along with Communists and pilgrims, make up the parliamentary majority. By the way, it's now confirmed by speaking on behalf of the faction Timoshenko. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party in the Supreme Council has never concealed its opposition to the Bushmen and Communists as open representatives of the anti - Ukrainian forces. We have been and remain consistent supporters of Ukraine's development as a legal, civilized, democratic country with European values, high standards of living and high social standards. It has now become clear to everyone that the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which were designed by their initiators not to democratize Ukrainian power, but to usurp and create legal chaos in Ukraine. And it came out that way, using the changes to the Constitution, the Kuchmö-Communist majority, along with the faction of Timoshenko, began to destroy the institutions of power. The suspension of the government, as a result of its limited capacity to influence the difficult economic situation in a country inherited from the Kuchma regime, and the deliberate obstacle to the establishment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which we could have been an arbitrator in conflicting issues between branches of government, is a clear proof that the work of the majority of parliament is destructive and that it is not aimed at social harmony. In these circumstances, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, which represents the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush, standing in Ukrainian, state-owned positions, supporting the President of Ukraine in his actions aimed at the development of Ukraine as a legal, democratic state, rejecting any extremism and anti-State methods of fighting for power, officially states that we are an opposition to today's majority, which exists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is represented along with the faction of Timoshenko's production-communist forces. At the same time, we demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to respect the rights and guarantees that are in opposition in civilized democratic countries, namely the right to speak, the right to make proposals and draft decisions, the right to debate on all issues that are being considered by Parliament. In addition, in view of the numerous violations of regulatory procedures by the Supreme Council, opposition calls for the withdrawal of the Communist factions who are now part of the parliamentary majority from the board of directors of the Rules of Procedure. Securing rights and guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Vassil Kalinchuk is invited to the presentation, please. And also, since the People's Block MP group is transferring the right to speak, Vasil Kalinczuk is six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u24	Calinchuk, Clothing, Litvina National Block. Statement by the People’s Deputies of the People’s bloc of Lithuania Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! A year ago, today’s authorities vowed to observe the principles of Christian morality and to care for the people’s vital interests. But there is a gap between words and actions. During the days of the information agency, it was reported that the office of the Ukrainian Ministers had approved the cost of building the office of the President on January 11. The area of the new four - story office building is 5,000. 300 sq. This leaflet was last The cost is over 52 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating The object will be financed at the expense of the budget. How vital is this building work? The question is very interesting. Especially after public statements by the Heads of State about the intentions of reducing the divisive states of government and the total deficit of social resources. Let's at least take medicine. Its minimum budget is less than half. The funds allocated are barely enough to pay. And the drugs, the necessary medical equipment, are out of the question. Should not health care be the number one priority in the baptized Chernobyl? Cynical and immoral is the government's decision to build new power palaces while tens of thousands of people die without full and timely medical care. Obviously, executive heads do not want to know. That Ukrainian schoolchildren give up their lunches and raise money for the gamma knife for the Institute of Neurosurgery of the Name of the Academy of Romodanova. The public campaign to raise money for this equipment is announced by the newspaper The Facts, actively supporting this initiative, this good cause of pensioners, all citizens, for whom the need to help their fellowman is a state of the soul. The special fund has already received 600,000 dollars while this is a unique equipment that uses gamma-minutes to destroy brain tumors without tripping the skull and damaging healthy cells, costing more than 5 million euros. Yet the real price of this question is not measured by any currency, for it is life. Each year, at least 9,000 of our fellow countrymen, including 1.5 thousand children, have the need for brain tumor removal surgery. Most of them cannot be saved because of the lack of equipment, and children and adults are traditionally doomed to disability. And abroad, gamma-wave operations cost 12-15 thousand euros. The management of the Kyiv Research Institute of Neurosurgery of the name of the academics Romodanova has been beating the thresholds for many years, trying to solve this problem, but doctors are not hearing high-ranking officials. Mercedes, expensive furniture and excellent renovations of government offices are the real priorities of the past and, unfortunately, of the present authority. People’s deputies of the “Lithuania People’s Block ” find this to be unacceptable. We appeal to the President of Ukraine, acting as the head of government with a firm demand to tighten plans for the construction of a new office building, and the funds that the authorities wanted to use for the construction would be directed towards the acquisition of modern neurosurgical equipment. The corresponding changes to the State Budget this year are proposed at the same time as changes to the gas savings. Members of the “Volodymira Litvina People's Block” will join the public action and will contribute personal funds to the acquisition of this equipment. By the way, for help, last year, “Hamanish”, produced by Sweden, bought 27 countries, including small Slovenia from a population of one million 900 000. and not richer than Ukraine, Romania also acquired this equipment. It is our hope that we will be heard, and there will be such equipment in our health institutions that it will preserve the lives of thousands of people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u25	Yes, thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of appeals from national deputies who are dissatisfied with answers to parliamentary requests and have properly drafted documents. This is Mikola Porowski, Vladimir Yavorowski, and Zara Katusheva. Please, Mikola Ivanovich Porovsky, your word. Prepare Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u26	Dear Head, fellow MPs! Mikola Porovski, faction of the Political Party of Rebirth. From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I have twice appealed to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy for the purpose of developing a national programme to reduce gas consumption and introduce it in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that this programme was in operation in Ukraine until 2000 and was implemented by 27 per cent, providing an economy of more than 10 billion. gas cubes, although not properly funded. At the MP's request and the MP's request, I received two replies at the signature of Deputy Minister Sold that there is no adequate funding for the development of the State Gas Consumption Programme in the Ministry and is not provided for by reference to the fact that the State Budget for 2006 also does not provide such funds for the development of the State Gas Consumption Reduction Programme. In the face of problems with Ukraine's natural gas supply, the apparent need to reduce gas consumption, the gas capacity of the internal gross product is more than a strange position of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, especially since Ukraine's energy development strategy for 2030 envisions the development of such a programme in the near future. From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I strongly urge the Cabinet of Ministers to make an order to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, to the Ministry of Finance to provide immediate funding for the development of a state programme to reduce gas consumption, to implement such a programme, and to not distribute it and to develop this program to the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for the cessation of the development of state programmes for the coming period. Ukraine needs a gas reduction program. Ukraine can become a self - sufficient country by implementing this program. And those 18 billion cubic metres of gas that are being extracted in Ukraine, as well as the gas that belongs to Ukraine for transit, can be quite sufficient to provide the Ukrainian economy with adequate energy conservation and reduction programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u27	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski has the floor. Prepare Zariah Katushevy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkwa, Lviv. Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that I could have any of the 450 national deputies who are sitting in this room. Even the one who wrote all over the cadence ask one question. This has become completely traditional. This is a very clear trend in treating us as national MPs. There's an unwitting question about this logic, which is very simple and at the same time painful: how we're going to protect our electorates, and I've got almost 200,000 majors, when we can't actually even defend our parliamentary rights, as provided for in the Constitution, as well as in the Constitution, as foretold and legislation. I mean, the official answers that float through each of us to our parliamentary requests, which, of course, are caused primarily by the anxiety, the pain of our constituents that we represent here with you. Each performance is a fully-trained document, ready. That's an impression. That he's done. It's just that they put a name on it that's going to be distributed to a national MP, and there's going to be a little something like that. And about this ping-pong that goes from handing out one branch of power to another. I want to say, in particular, that I could talk about every time I asked the MP, I have a lot of them to talk about the answers I got. But I chose the most painful question today, which is in Ukraine, is our Ukrainian information space. What does it represent today? Whether he's post-colonial or he's colonial. Today, when we come home and turn on the TV, we want to pinch ourselves very often. I'm in Rizansky, I'm in St. Petersburg, or where am I? Today, I will not give the figures that Russia’s newspapers and Russian newspapers now favor, which are published in Russia and which are being dumped in Ukraine. I won't, it could have been the whole dissertation that was produced during this gas war that newspapers produced. When Russia’s secretary of defense asks: “Why, how do you feel about the gas problem? “ And he says, ‘ This is not my business. ’ Journalist says, “So was war.” He says, "Yes, it was war, but modern." “Why modern?” “Yes. Because today's funds were blackmailing, that's where the bribe was.” And so on and so on and so forth and so forth. I'm not talking about hooches sitting on a pipe eating frozen fat. And I wrote a request to Kinah, to Yehanurov, and to the security service. This is what I got, which is the answer, where they say they share my concern. Where is the state’s policy in this direction? Because I'm asking again, I'm asking again to be answered, not me, but my voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u29	Zara Katusheva, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u30	Respectable People's Deputies. Ukraine is full of problems, including, regrettably, the realization of children's rights to life, health, social protection and full development. The main reason for this unacceptable provision is the irresponsible attitude of senior officials to improve the case. Thus, as soon as I knew that the Crimean Republican Children's Hospital had long and extremely needed a serological device to determine the hearing functions of sick children, I immediately received a parliamentary request and not one. During this time, there has been a third Minister of Health in the country. What happened? Initially, I was told that such devices were not released in Ukraine. Although I did provide information about the supplier. The Ministry of Health then responds that some work has been done. However, the budget for 2005 does not provide for such expenditure. When you hear these explanations, you might think that the necessary equipment is made for about three hundred and thirty lands and costs millions and millions. However, the equipment is produced in Moscow, and the train only takes ten hours. And it's only worth 50,000 bucks. Less than three ministerial salaries. By the way, the wages of ministers for 20,000 bracelets per month were also set suddenly. However, the money was found quite quickly. By way of resignation, my MP's request has been denied, and the sick children without the most necessary medical care. High-level officials violated the rights of children guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, article 49, everyone had the right to health and medical care. The requirements of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, article six, have also been violated. The State guarantees the child the right to health care, free medical care and the promotion of child health. On this basis, I request the Acting Prime Minister, Yuri Ivanovich Ehanurov, to consider my statement to be in support of earlier parliamentary requests and a further parliamentary request for the benefit of the sick children of the Republic Children's Hospital of Crimea and the requirement to remedy immediately the violation of their rights and to acquire the equipment they urgently need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. What, what? Yeah? I'm asking you, well, take this crap already, for God's sake, what did you keep like writing? It's not an election. Please. Since the last name was mentioned, I ask you to allow others to speak, since the last name in the speech was Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich, he is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Matthew. As for the performance of one very and very opposing gentleman. First of all, who are you in opposition to, give an answer? To Yushchenka? To the government? No, it's not. And everyone knows that. Yeah? To whom, though? It's probably up to itself. Secondly, regarding the principle and political consistency of your famous constituency. Didn't you serve as a faith and truth to Mr. Kuchmi on the train for many years, especially the Ivy in the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, by the way, he returned to the post through a counter-revolutionary coup in January 2000. This is Kostenko and Hare, ministers. And in the end you are, Mr. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u33	You named your last name, raise your stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u34	When they were in office as Head of Moscow's City Reservoir.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u35	I would like to say once again, the People's Deputy Assadchev in his speech called Matthew's last name. He was granted the right to a replica. All of it. Pick up your stenographer, look. I want to ask you again. Don't test me. My nerves are strong. All of it. I didn't call your last name. I informed you that your address was Matthew. He was granted the right to a replica. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Announcing the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts relating to the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with WTO rules. Dear National Deputies! We need to include this issue in the agenda, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. On the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8322, please vote. [[11:14:54]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 33, National Party - 32, Block Timoshenko - 28, SPI - 0, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "Reforms and Orders" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 9, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 7. Please provide information on the importance of this law. Dear colleagues, calm down, mobilize. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill amends several laws, where these changes are generally of a technical nature and are important for us to prepare successfully for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. And they don't have any kind of controversial or political character, so I'm asking you to back up and go back to this bill. More than that, one of the sections of this bill has already been voted on in this room and has been supported by the deputies, and this is about automobile construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's go back to the consideration of the inclusion of the issue in the agenda, let the Supreme Council consider and then determine what it will do next with this bill. I am voting for the return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8322, please vote. [[11:16:51]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 3, Communists – 0, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 38, Block Timoshenko – 27, SPI – 0, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 13, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 14, “One Ukraine” – 3, non-fractional – 9. Please, please, stop whining. Give me a chance to work. Your father's tired of your saliva. Yeah. Please, please. You'll grow up to this academy. You've got to jump to him for a long time. Please, come on. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you again. Let's go back to the question. Let's put it in the order of the day as a result of the discussion, well, let's figure out what decision each faction will make in its political decision. Well, we just don't discuss it, we don't discuss it. And we immediately reject any offer to the east. Please log in for three minutes to exchange your thoughts on this subject, please log in. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u37	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction “The Regions of Ukraine. I wanted the session room and the people who are listening to us today or watching from the TV screens to feel that, as one great actor put it, there was a destructive force here that is exerting every effort to harm Ukraine. The thing is, if we're already regularized, I'm talking about certain factions that are constantly showing us stars, knowing the Rules, we're now kind of going back to the bills that we've already spoken to. For the next session, please let's hear some arguments. No one was working with the factions. There's nothing new here. In due time, there were reasons why we did not vote for these bills. And in this case, there's just some kind of strong pressure and an attempt to twist your hand or we've voted that way without argument. That's not gonna happen, it's a session hall, it's a solid people, self-sufficient Ukrainian national MPs. And you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, don't react to these screamers, they're not okay with their heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u38	Andrew Poliyet, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u39	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u40	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today, we see another attempt at individual bills, Soviet bills, such as the Banks and Banking Act, the Metallurgy, export duty on leather waste, and so on and so forth, drag them into the agenda. There is a rule in the Rules that repeatedly rejected bills should not be re-voted in the same session. You know, well, bad for the President Parliament. Then let the Cabinet of Ministers direct his signature to the President without a vote in the Supreme Council Hall, and this is how documents are accepted. You can't do that. It's like in that movie, everything that's been done by this man is done for the benefit of Ukraine and on my behalf. You can't do that. So a faction of Communists will not vote in favour of the inclusion in the order of the day the next time, of the bills that try to stretch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u42	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u43	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear National Deputies! Today, there are 150 countries that provide a total of over 95 percent of the world's goods, including all the economically developed countries, the vast majority of our trading partners, the WTO candidates are over 30 countries, including Ukraine and Russia. But why the lobbyists of Russian interests. rescue factories and industries that have collapsed in 14 years and that have become members of many people’s parliaments for looting. Now it turns out to protect the national manufacturer. But why didn't you save him in the years 94-2000 before the arrival of the Yushchenka government, which for the first time successfully began to protect this manufacturer? There is no return to the State Plan and REV. You can't build a new Ukraine with old politics! Therefore, it is necessary to take a firm stand in the WTO and compete with the world’s producers so that the Ukrainian producer will finally feel at home in the world’s markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this bill. I would like to remind you, and what it was about yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I informed you about the proposal to go back to considering these bills. There were no categorical objections. So let's go back to the consideration, this is the decision of the conciliatory council, and then in the process of discussion, let's figure out what decision to make. I mean, every political group, every political party. Let's do it this way. Therefore, I would like to make the final vote on the motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of Law 8322. Please vote. Upon return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda. For – 206 The decision is not taken. Let's put it off for further consultations. What? The factions? Please. According to factions: "Regions of Ukraine", faction of Communists - Zero, National Party - 34, "Our Ukraine" - 40, Block of Timoshenko - 27, SPU - 0, National Block - 22, SDPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 15, "Rebirth" - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "Reforms and Order" - 14, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 11, "One Ukraine" - 5, non-fractional - 8. Dear colleagues, now we need to consider going back to the previously unsupported drafts, which again apply to the WTO. The first is to consider: the return to the draft Act amending the Law on Banking and Banking. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 7274. Please vote. For 192. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. "Regions of Ukraine", Communists – Zeros, National Party – 36, "Our Ukraine" – 26 - stress, Block Timoshenko – 30, SPI – 0, National Block – 19, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian National Party – 15, "Rebirth" – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, "Reforms and Order" – 13, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 11, "One Ukraine" – 4, "Afterfraction" – 11. Please, the position of the government. Give us an explanation for this matter, please. Who Is From the Government? From the government there should be a deputy minister of the economy, Petnický. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for the possibility of working branches of foreign banks following Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. And it is also extremely important in terms of the resolution and preparation of our banking system for membership in the World Trade Organization. So I'm asking you to come back before this bill is considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for three minutes. Please sign up, three minutes. Zara Katusheva. Zara Katusheva, microphone, please. What? What? Well, the thing is, dear colleagues, we can share thoughts, each faction will express their position, why they voted, or why they supported it. Huh? Well, after that, it'll be in the voting process. Well, please, dear fellows! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u47	Our faction will not vote in favour of such projects, and will not continue anti-national projects through the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u48	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u49	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I address all colleagues who do not vote. I would like to remind you that voting for the bills for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization has been strongly supported and extended by the previous government in salt with Mr. Janukovic. And those factions then voted. I don't know what happened, except for the political and pre-election situation, but there is no alternative to the world trade organization, and who doubts that I'm turning to the left factions, please look at the consolidated activities of the Russian Duma, the deputies of the Russian Duma, upon the adoption of proper legislation. And, literally, to the end. Dear friends, there are about two and a half parliamentary weeks left, I would ask everyone to be, in fact, ethical, especially those who are leaders, because the warehouse. both academic and national MPs, and the electorate is exactly the same in biochemical terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u50	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u51	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of how we evaluated our faction in the summer when we refused to vote with our mouths because we were brought what we had not read, seen or knew. Based on this logic, we have insisted that once we have studied and done these laws, we will vote for them. To date, we believe that we have done them. We, I mean, all those involved in this process and our proposal, respectively, have taken our vision of the situation into account. Therefore, there is no problem in my view that we should at least include this in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u52	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u53	Thank you. I want to remind our colleagues about, really, the decision of yesterday's Conciliation Board, where the general idea was that these projects are extremely important, we have to go back to them today. We need to consider, express our position, and make a clear decision. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko has always consistently insisted that the laws relating to WTO should be carefully considered, left to rational grains. That is why we have voted and will vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of today's government bank bills, which refer to Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u54	Sergey Matvienkov, PSP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u55	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, let us not try to find extremes today. Indeed, a decision was taken on the Conciliation Board yesterday. But I think in those days, the government would have to think about and analyze the things that are moving into the hall today. We should have gotten the material. We are now offered a law that changes the quota for imports and exports of sugar. The quotas that determine today the use of fats and proteins in dairy products, the use of daltic raw materials, Euro-2, the import of cars, the establishment of the TRC are all things that will affect the work of the State as a whole, all things that can affect the viability and situation of our country. Banking. The questions we have asked about banks, how will they affect Ukraine's economy today? At least the basic calculations of what we're asking of the government today, but I don't know, over the past six months, but in the end, give a basic calculation for each bill. Show us what Ukraine wins, what it loses. Do we not have the right to look and make a clear analysis of what this will give us and that it will not allow us to make informed decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, let's maybe do it this way. We exchanged thoughts, and the positions of each political faction are understandable. Now, let me just do it without motivation, without discussion, I'm going to put to the vote a return to the consideration of these bills. If not, we move on. Is there no objection? So let's mobilize right now, please put all your cell phones down, figure out what we need to do. Therefore, I am voting on the return to the draft Act amending the Law on Banking and Banking. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Please vote. To 221. The decision is not taken. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 0 "Our Ukraine" - 39, National Party - 35, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPI - 7, National Block - 22, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, Rebirth - 12, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, Reforms and Orders - 15, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "One Ukraine" - 2, non-fractional - 11. Now, pay attention, please. A motion for a return to the draft law on the abolition of export ban on the export of alloyed black metals, scrap metal and semi-manufactured metals is put to the vote. Registration number 7565. Please vote. For – 201. The decision is not taken. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 39, National Party - 30, Block Timoshenko - 27, SPI - 0, National Block - 22, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "Reforms and Order" - 15, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "One Ukraine" - 1, non-fractional - 7. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! A motion for a return to the draft repeal law is put to the vote. We already have. Yes. A motion for a return to the draft law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Export Customs Act on waste and scrap of black metals is put to the vote. Registration number 8316, please vote. For 216. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communists – Zeros, National Party – 37, “Our Ukraine” – 38, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPI – 0, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 15, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 12, “One Ukraine” – 2, “non-fractional – 11. There is a motion for a return to the draft law, registration number 8317 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity. Registration number 8317, please vote. To - 204. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 0, Communists - 0, People's Party - 26, “Our Ukraine” - 39, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPI - 0, National Block - 21, SDPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, “Rebirth” - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, “Reforms and Orders” - 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 14, “One Ukraine” - 5, non-fractional - 9. Dear colleagues, we need to consider now the issues that need to be included in the agenda first and then discussed and made a decision. May I have your attention, Your Honor? A proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Shareholders is put to the vote. Registration number 8326, please vote. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. Here comes the vote, your honors. Please vote. To 218. The decision is not taken. Honorable national MPs, whose law regulates the order of formation, activity, and cessation of shareholders’ activities, their legal status, rights, shareholders’ responsibilities, and the order of their protection, including the protection of the rights of small shareholders. Let's include some more questions, let's talk about them. And then we'll figure it out. Three minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u57	Please give the word to my colleague Matvienkov, although he is no longer our colleague, from the “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Matvinkov, 55th District. Dear colleagues! We have not returned to this bill once. Both in this composition and in the past. Indeed, the Act on Shareholders requires some changes and has already survived. But we are saying that unfortunately, to date, in the absence of a Chinese paper market, in the absence of a normal civilized situation, which would form part of the market for shareholders, subject to the normal protection of the shareholder and the law on bankruptcy, and the law on shareholding societies becomes a simple transfer of ownership. You'll call me at least one enterprise that's been raised is put on its feet by the bankruptcy law. But I'll call you dozens of businesses that have changed owners by this law. The Shareholder Associations Act is a mechanism, it is the key to the allocation of property. All of this is well understood. We haven't matured yet for the adoption of this law, so...
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u59	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! It was thought that the interests of small shareholders, minitarians, were being protected here. Indeed, they represent an absolute majority by number, but on dividends they represent an absolute minority. It is therefore difficult to accept this argument as one that seeks to protect the interests of such persons. Let him be the shareholder of His Majesty's own people, his own property, and then there will be no carnage around the shareholders' societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u61	Yes, Sergey Zizko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u62	Please give the word to Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u63	Igor Yukhnovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, and of this law, and of other laws. All these laws related to the WTO should be carefully considered, calmly on the Supreme Council and each of them discussed. I repeat, we have to enter the WTO in order to increase people's wages and not allow prices to increase in the internal market, so that the internal market is not run by speculators, but that the internal market is organized. To do that, we have to have the same thing in Poland as in Germany. In this regard, we need to normalize our laws with the laws of the WTO. And so I'm begging you, we have to go back to reviewing the laws on WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u65	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u66	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Please pass the word to Michael Gladys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u67	Mikhail Gladys, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block". With regard to the appropriateness of adopting the draft law, improving the legislation on stockholder societies is an urgent necessity, and that is why. Since much of the provisions of Chapter 1 “Sharing societies”, section 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, which currently regulates these issues, are outdated and does not comply with the Civil Code. Therefore, dear friends, we need to vote on this law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u69	Yes. Well, we've been exchanging thoughts on this. Yes. Anatoly Baluk. Government, please, what is the position of the government on this matter? Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today 75% of GDP is produced by companies that have equity. It is the 91st year of the Law on Economic Societies. This law is not written by a commission, not by a government. This was done by experts, this is a general practice that we have today. And we have 75 percent of GDP, 15 million shareholders. And you don't have to say it's a redistribution mechanism. Today, there is a redistribution mechanism where there is inadequate legislation, where there are courts. It sets out the step by step of creation, elimination, filling, and responsibility. Today’s realities are in perfect harmony. What is the Supervisory Board, what is the General Assembly, what is one shareholder, what is an shareholder, who has a controlling stock package, how to gather congregations that haven't been meeting for years. I would ask you very much, even though in the first reading today this law will be passed. I realize that there may be some warning or objection. Let's look for compromise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged thoughts on this subject. Let's do it this way. I beg your attention, fellow officers. Dear colleagues. I'm asking you, let's stop negotiating there for now, let's figure out what to do. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Shareholders. Registration number 8326. Please vote. For – 213 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please, by the factions. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communists – 0, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 40, Block Timoshenko – 22, SPI – 10, National Block – 22, SPI – 0, Ukrainian National Party – 14, Rebirth – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, Reforms and Order – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, “Only Ukraine” – 5, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to include in the agenda the draft Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way as to lose the validity of certain legislative acts on the privatization of the Open Shareholder Society. Registration number 8488. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. - To 125. The decision is not taken. Yes, next, please. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments in respect of Housing Funds Objects, registration number 8598. Please vote. For – 224 The decision is not taken. What is involved in the consideration of the inclusion of Law 8598 in the order of the day? Please vote. For – 283 Returned to the question of whether to include the issue in the order of the matter. I'm betting on a motion to include in the agenda of the daily draft of Law 8598. For – 294 Decision taken. Please, Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna. You don't? Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u72	Part one of this Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Monuments prohibits the privatization of cultural heritage monuments prior to the approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a list of sites that are not subject to privatization. The need for the approval of such a census is defined in article 18 of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has so far failed to ensure that a bill is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a list of cultural heritage that is not privatized by August 23, 2005. The committee believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of further development and second reading. Two important points should be taken into account in the development of a better definition of the responsibility of the owners of housing for preserving the cultural heritage that is privatized, since there is no account of the issue of a protection contract that provides for the conditions of preservation and responsibility for the improper preservation of the monuments and the bills need to be prescribed for the appointment by the Cabinet of the draft Law on Approval of Lists of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which are not subject to privatization. I ask you to uphold this law in spite of all political battalions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, do we need to have a discussion? No, no, no, no, no. Yes. Then, please, on the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled. Please show me. Yuri Carmazin, please, your vision. If you want out of place, I think the whole country will see you. No, Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm in a good way. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u74	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Ladies and gentlemen, do we need this law, this project to be adopted or not to be adopted? First of all, all Ukrainian citizens have equal rights. If they have equal rights, then all citizens have the right to privatize housing assets, or apartments, in which they live. If they have the right, how does the state ensure that the cultural heritage of local importance is preserved even for our descendants and there are problems that result from what is not provided for in this law. It seems to me that Les Tanjuk has correctly identified the very basic points that are, for example, I see as a key point such as the reselling of a privatized object. You signed a treaty and a security agreement, made a commitment to privatization, and then, when you sell this apartment in a notary order, no one has ever taken over Tanjuk's commitment, Carmazin's commitment, that's the question. All of this needs to be clearly foreseen in the law and made now, and to provide for notaries, to provide for the responsibility of local councils, to foresee it, and to make changes not only to one law, but to make changes to a set of laws. Therefore, in my support of the entire bill, by supporting the comments made by the committee, I also share his concern that the government has failed to comply with its obligation. Actually, I'd like to go to the government. Dear government officials, I advise you in the morning and by evening to read at least the nearest 2-3 months of the Constitution and to learn to think that you have to do everything by decree or by law that the Supreme Council has adopted, including by decree. I would like you to get used to the idea that you live in a parliamentary-presidential state, which means that a dear deputy minister will now not be appointed to the President's office, because it was illegal before and before the President's past, and it continues now, but it will no longer be and cannot be under the new Constitution. Remember, Your Honor, this is the case. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government has not fulfilled its obligation after the introduction of the bill, so a bill has been tabled, submitted by the MP, submitted by the MP and is not yet, unfortunately, complex. So let's take it up on the first reading and put it on the committee in a comprehensive way with the legal committee to consider this issue and suggest it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u75	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Michael Schulsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u76	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that this bill on change and a temporary ban on the privatization of cultural heritage is being addressed as no one, the city of Lviv, because the city of Lviv has 50 percent of all the monuments of Ukraine’s architecture, and a large part of the people live in the monuments of architecture. [[on housing assets]] Of course, there's such a very humane act -- to let people privatize, let them destroy and destroy these objects to those who privatized and so on. Because this bill does not speak of how, when, for what, and why, the owner will be responsible for the preservation of this historical monument. And so there's nothing to say about when these rights are going to be redistributed, that is, when the apartment is going to be sold. So you know how housing is privatized. Five apartments are privatized, all are concentrated by one owner, the house is demolished, and there is a beautiful modern outfit that will spoil the appearance, spoil the atmosphere, and destroy the city’s mood and spirit. In the city of Lviv, practically 50 percent of the monuments of architecture are housing, 95. In this way you can wave your hand peacefully then, really, why did the Ukrainian State really have the past? Why should people today remember the past? Anyone who wants to do this can, of course, do it. Because I am deeply convinced that the ban on privatization was due to the fact that sooner or later people would have to get out of position and move away. It is necessary to look for funds, to build modern, quality dwellings, and to transform the monuments of architecture into those houses that will be maintained, to take care of them. Unfortunately, it's the simplest way. On the one hand, of course, it solves the problem of privatizing housing to those who live there, but, first of all, it solves the problem of those who want to raise this housing fund, it solves the problem of those who want to build a 50-story building at the site of a three-story historical building, because the price of this building is just the size of the bribe and no more, because no one will care, fits in, doesn't fit in and fits in, whatever. So I would be very careful to support this bill, it's not the time, at least for now, because it doesn't solve the problem, on the one hand. Everyone lives, lives, and continues to live in these facilities. It doesn't matter. But this affects the inability to congregate all historical memories to one or two people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u77	Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga has a word, a faction of Communists. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The thing is, in this bill, we're facing a conflict here. On the one hand, there is no doubt that we must continue to ban the privatization of cultural heritage. There is no doubt that this is a question that we are returning to, in any case, for the second time within a few months. The problem is what? The problem is that the government had to give us a list of objects that were not privatized for approval. It's not done. This is not the first time. Of course, in this kaleidoscope of culture ministers, they don't have time to deal with these issues. It brings them up to other questions that are not cultural. They're more of a political issue. And that's why we become hostages, and society becomes hostages to these problems that there is no host in the culture. But with no doubt about the adoption of a ban, the continuation of a temporary ban, we need to find out what is in this particular bill. There, the language is used to privatize private apartments, private accommodations. And that means that we can put at risk very valuable cultural objects that can be resold several times, and then we can't find and lose this cultural heritage. [[Well, here's the scheme we're talking about.]] So I think that, Les Stepanovich, if we were to say more specifically, so that we can be sure that this criminal sequence will not work, which will lead to the loss of this monument, there is no problem. This needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u79	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u80	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd The bill, if read, refers to a temporary ban on the privatization of cultural heritage. If this bill is not read, it seems that a good bill needs to be supported. But when he reads it, he bears quite a number of contradictions and brings such misunderstandings into the system of laws on housing and on the monuments of architecture and history. So I think we should send a draft for work, we need to do everything we can to get the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the decision of the Supreme Council and to list those cultural monuments that will be legalized. And I think that the Cabinet of Ministers in general must have done all of this on purpose. Because at a time when the revision must have begun to be made to the cultural monuments that exist, part of them, about half of them, had already been placed on one hand or another. So once again, I stress that the bill needs to be sent for work, that there is no need to vote for it. It is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the commission that was given. I agree with my colleagues that citizens of our Ukraine have the right to privatize their homes. But we should not give to privatize cultural monuments. Otherwise, we will lose such cultural monuments forever, especially if we resell one or another apartment. Well, count it. That the monuments of history and architecture are usually located in a central, central, part of a inhabited area. And these buildings are being concentrated pretty intensely, and we're going to lose these rooms forever. The Socialist faction proposes that we send this bill for further development in order to preserve our descendants' memories of history and architecture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u81	Yes, Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear friends, if we accept a bill in this way, only to ban the housing fund, in fact, we condemn all our cultural and historical monuments to destruction. Because there will never be enough money in the local government to keep them properly, and the investor is forbidden, as it were, to take part in their restoration. I want to say that in all the civilized countries of the world, most of the building, the monuments of history are located, including in private hands. And the law has to regulate these relationships, i.e. a private person can take this house into his own possession, but he's going to have to be banned from changing, say, the facade, changing the original appearance of this house there. Sometimes, even when the building needs to be completely rebuilt, it is not even possible to restore it. But it needs to be restored as historical as it was. This is the kind of standard that needs to be laid down in the bill. And in order for us to control it, because the local authorities, you don't control everything, really, there might be some kind of violation. It usually takes a more central, higher level of authority to pass rights on to such things, so that they too can watch and grant permits in such cases as restorations are required, or the complete restoration of the monuments of architecture and history. So I suggest you don't take it that way. But if I were to suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we give the commission to the committee, let him reconsider this problem and bring it to the Supreme Council in terms of regulating these relations, as they are settled in the entire civilized world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, final word to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u84	Thank you for your discussion. But I want to explain that both Mr. Sadow and Mr. Assadchev and Mr. School talked about another law. That's a completely different category. Now we're not talking about privatizing the Louvre in Ukraine or some laurel, there's no talking about it. This is about housing projects, about people who are already living where cultural monuments are. And to give these people the right to live in the houses they live in, to make it their own apartment. It's not like they're rebuilding the facades, and so on. For this, there is indeed a safeguard agreement. And I want to conclude that if the Kabmin continues to delay the submission of a bill on the listing of cultural heritage that is not privatized to us, it is obvious that the same bill belongs to us, adopting it today in the first reading, to prepare for the second reading the unlocking of the privatization process and the uninhabitable local sites, unless such a monument is included by the local council in the list mentioned in Kabmin for reconciliation. First, privatization has stopped in some cases. This is especially true of many people. Secondly, the income of the local budgets, namely the local development budgets, is limited. So if we go back to our law again, not to the law that Mr. School is talking about, I ask him to be supported in the first reading. And we're going to make the adjustments that are and that we've made and that you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u85	What, what? It was called two names. Now, one minute, dear colleagues. Their names were School and Assadchev. Please, Assadchev and then School, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u86	Thank you. As I was speaking, I was referring to housing funds because if they were not housing funds, then they could be banned. There are objects that can and should not be privatized. If these are museums, they're appropriate and so forth. I was just speaking about cultural heritage buildings that are housing projects. Here we have to go more specifically as I said we can't ban it, but we have to make sure that it doesn't get ruined in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we have to finish our consideration of the matter. Then we'll call it a break. Please, be patient, please. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I actually meant that, saying that when entrepreneur X wants to buy 2-3 houses, which are the historical acquisitions of Ukraine, he's offering residents to privatize their homes in these houses, he's later buying these houses, taking them and building a beautiful modern house that he's afraid to look at. That is what regulates, allows and facilitates the relevant law that is discussed here, for there is no standard of responsibility for preserving the object in the event that the object is purchased from the person privatizing the apartment. So we'd really like to support both the government and the author of the bill, but we can't support those laws that are ruining our historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we still have two men here, Gornik and Yavorowski. Since they've been able to speak, we're, in practice, giving an opportunity if they're going to ask for one minute with, for the performance. Eugene Gorenik insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I have come to understand, despite all the claims made by Mr. Tanyuk, that this is about Law 8598 concerning the privatization of the housing fund, which refers to objects of cultural heritage. And since the government's failed mandate, well, I don't see the point of speeding it up. Well, that's how it burns. Of course, the claim to government is fair. We must wait until a complete list is made and then we can draw conclusions about the rights of the inhabitants of those homes. So, what, they're being kicked out? No one expels, they can live as long as they want. In the end, the shadow market of all housing is booming, so I think it's necessary to reject this project and wait for an appropriate list to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u91	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u92	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like to believe that the Ukrainian Parliament is in a very normal position to consider this bill. I understand how it is not easy for the government today to register our historical memories, but I think we will remind them again today that we must do so, because we are a great nation and we have so many such monuments and we need this register and inventory to be completed. I understand Lez Tanyuk, but as an MP from Lviv, I know what Lviv really is, I'm in solidarity with Andrey Schlem. You understand that we have really lost so much as a result of various historical beliefs. We're still going to issue this inaccurate bill today, in which, in fact, anyone, an oligarch tomorrow can gather the whole center of the same Lviv or let's say the same Ternopol, although it may be less valuable after the war. Because of this, I would not be in a hurry today, nor would I be in a hurry today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Now I think before the vote, give a brief position to the Cabinet of Ministers, whether we are supported by the government, this bill. Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism, please Olga Juryovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u94	Honorable National Deputys of the Supreme Council! The Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine fully support the proposed bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments. I want to say that the State Cultural Heritage Service to the government was given a register of monuments to be excluded from the privatization list in September of this year. But it's still under consideration on the committee, which is the government committee, that list has already been agreed upon, and now only it has to be considered by the government. Thus, the Ministry has fully fulfilled its obligations to the Supreme Council. And we would very much like to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A motion for a committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments in respect of Housing Foundation Objects is put to the vote. Registration number 8598. Please vote. Based on that, yes. Please vote. For - 240. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions, the BUT faction and the “One Ukraine” requested a recess to be announced for consultations. Now, please listen to me until the end, please. But since we are about to have a break, I would like to ask during a recess for consultations. And after the break, you'll be informing us about the reason you offered to call it a break. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u96	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, I informed you that two factions had requested 30 minutes to hold consultations before the break. During the general break, such consultations took place, and Victor Terrence of the BUT faction will speak from two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u97	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Today, there is a mass hysteria in Ukraine in connection with the resignation of the government. As in Soviet times, when the enemies of the nation were besieging, so were the rallies organized by the authorities, bringing people together to protect Yehanurov. And the only question is. To protect Yehanurov from whom? From the MPs? So what, they encourage people to break into the Supreme Council and mix MPs to vote differently? A trust rating for Yehanurov today is 6 percent. When Yushchenko sent Julia Timoshenko to resign, she was 52 percent. But she did not urge people to go out on her own defense, even though she could bring them to thousands, and that is true. Even Janukovich, when he was deprived of his authority, sent the daughters back. But it's no big deal right now. The government will continue to carry out its duties. We didn't even deprive the government of their salaries -- tens of thousands of dollars. What they are in the U.S., we simply reminded the ministers that they really should carry out their duties conscientiously. Finally, the members of the government should resign, on vacation, because most of them are on our Ukraine's electoral list. And Mr. Yehanurov breaks the law when he does not go on vacation alone because he is the first number on this list. After all, it's the same government that the President has already retired. There's practically all the same people, all except Julia Timoshenko. That is why destabilisation is not the resignation of the government today, but rather the hysteria that has been raised in connection with it. The situation is destabilized by a powerful team that cannot boast of anything in particular, so let us fight to vote in this election. It destabilizes the situation by calling for parliament to be launched, declaring a referendum that even Kuchma did not dare to do. It destabilizes the situation by a gas deal that has made Ukraine a monopoly. Finally, they destabilize the statements of former representative Kuchma in the Immortal Parliament, who, by bleaching Kuchma, has already called for a state of emergency when it comes to the killing of Gongadze Guy in Parliament. And that's why we call on "Our Ukraine" to bury an axe of war, an honest word. Mr. Yehanurov, who is the head of the State of President Kuchma at Kuchma, is the Minister of Economics at Kuchma, and he is the head of the Government of President Kuchma, and he is the head of Dercomposite at Kuchma. I don't have enough time to count all this. But other than that, it's at Kuchma's. Honestly, this war is not worth it. And that's why our unity is worth more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need it now, please. To decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, this is registration number 8260. [[on processing enterprises and their reception facilities]] Voting. Please be sure. For – 68 Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u99	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! This is not about the Act, which is related to SOT, it is a little bit about other things. You and I have already taken a lot of steps in order to work with scrap metal. Our steps have reduced the exports of scrap from 5 million tons to one and a half million, up to the 2 million we had this year. But what is it? About the fact that, to date, the scrap mills have been divided into two groups. First group. They are the ones who rent land, the ones who rent equipment specializedly, and work with the wreckage at these sites in the equipment. Five years later, theoretically, they are obliged to recommence these treaties. Regrettably, the principle of the treaty begins to enter into force: the contract has been concluded and the grass continues to grow. I mean, they're starting to work without property, without absolutely, let's say, no basis. As a result, we have reached back to the one-and-a-half-thousand business entities that we now have in our midst. It is understandable that these one and a half thousand wish to continue to be licensed. We're trying this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u100	The point is that, dear colleagues, he is the author of the bill, and he is the author of the bill. Well, he's just, uh, respected colleagues, please. Just a minute. Please, there is no one from the government on this matter? Please, Igor Raphaelovich. Yes, three minutes, dear colleagues. Well, please, come on. Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u101	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we've been looking at the issues on the Supreme Council about metals of color and black metal. And the whole point is not that we're going against the normal trade in scrap metal, but against the fact that there are certain shadow companies that we have to fight. So I suggest that this issue should be discussed very carefully between the government and us, the Parliament. The government has to show us the exact pattern of movement of the same scrap metal because, as Matthewnkov just said, there is this group that collects the metal itself, which sells it to the external market instead of handing it over to the internal processors. And we need to put order in here. But this is a government matter. And then we can consider this law. Otherwise, we will never agree with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u102	Hello, please, and then Silence. And then it's going to continue to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the problem of metallurgy in Ukraine, it does exist, but it is created by large metallurgical enterprises that have changed the entire balance of production over the last 15 years. And today 90 percent of the product that goes to export is a semi-manufacturer. It's going to cook the weed. At the end of the late 1980s, this rotating fracture completely closed the balance of Ukrainian metallurgy. And these questions have never arisen. So I suggest that this law is inappropriate, we have all kinds of property, and they have to work, including lysing, and rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u104	Silence, rebirth faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u105	Honorable National MPs. Vladimir Movchan, Rebirth faction. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to what Sergey Matvienkov has said! Let's support it, and we'll consider this bill, so that you can take a closer look at what's being proposed. We looked at it on the committee. And I ask you very much that we support and return to him. He's asking the right question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u106	Respectful colleagues, given the exchange of ideas that took place, are polar. So let's put it this way: I'm going to put it again. Who, in order to return to the consideration of the inclusion of the agenda for the draft Law 8260, please determine by vote. To - 107. The decision is not taken. Honourable National Deputies, there is a motion to vote: to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities. [[on consumer co-operation]] Registration number 8168. Please, Your Honor, vote. For 216. The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the consideration of the issue of the inclusion of registration number 8168 in the agenda of the bill, please vote. For 252. Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The report is open. And we're back, distinguished national MPs. I am now voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8168. For – 261 Decision taken. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Pak Vladimir Petrovich. To prepare for the Committee of Philip Philipovich Budjighan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u107	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed for your consideration by a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, prepared with the aim of overcoming the conflicting practice of applying part 3 of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities. Today, there are several cases of ambiguous interpretation by authorities, such as tax inspectors and courts of the relevant law, of the release of businesses and consumer cooperatives from the necessity of obtaining a commercial patent. The current edition of article 1 created a situation where the right to exemption from purchase by a consumer company of a trading patent is treated by taxpayers depending on the membership of consumer cooperation in the UCOOP partnership – this is contrary to articles 36.42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that no one can be forced into any association of citizens, or restricted to the right to membership or non-membership of political parties, or public organizations. All associations of citizens are equal before the Law. An abnormal situation is when one consumer society is freed from the acquisition of a patent and another is forced to buy it. Ukraine’s Consumer Cooperation Act provides that consumer societies can, on voluntary grounds, unite in local communities, in the central association of Ukrainian consumer associations and have the right to free exit. Hence, the right of the consumer society not to purchase a commercial patent cannot depend on the membership of the consumer society in the central community. This bill is aimed at overcoming such discrimination. For the introduction of part three of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting Certain Business Activities, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. I will note that most consumer associations that do not belong to Ukooppica have already protected their right from the courts not to purchase a commercial patent. Thus, the bill does not result in losses in the State Budget, as warned by the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. Saving the current unconstitutional and imperfect formulation of part three of the first article of the Ukrainian Patent Act can lead to new litigation between consumer societies and taxpayers. Therefore, honourable fellow members of the national MPs, please support this bill. And the consumer cooperation of Ukraine, more than a hundred years old, will be very grateful. The implementation of the project will also enhance the economic activity of consumer societies, eliminate local conflicts with authorities, and contribute to development.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Petrovich. Philip Philipovich Budzigan will explain his position from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u109	Budhagan, a faction of Communists. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment on December 14th considered a draft of the Ukraine Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities. [[on consumer co-operation]] Registration number 8168. The purpose of the bill is to provide a clearer interpretation of part three of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities and to bring the relevant legislation to the provisions of articles 36, 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 111 of the Code of Lords. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions that have been made. However, I also have to say that according to the Cabinet of Ministers of Finance of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance has made an expert conclusion to the bill and the Ministry of Finance notes that the bill is not supported on such grounds. According to article 27, part 2, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the laws that affect the formation of the income portion of the budgets should be officially published by August 15, which is ahead of the plan. Otherwise, the rules of the relevant laws affecting the formation of the income part of the budgets are applied not earlier than the beginning of the budget period, followed by the planned one. The adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurship will result in the loss of revenue of the budget, budgets for the following years. In doing so, draft laws to determine the validity of which, in the current or subsequent budget periods, would lead to a reduction in the budget income of the legislator should have made proposals for expenditure to be reduced. The above proposals are not made by the legislative body. But the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the amendments be made to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, registration number 8168, be adopted in the first reading, and then we will work out and everything will be fine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, will you be speaking? Yuri Karmazin, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. Did I call it right this time? Although the faction “Our Ukraine” is written here. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. You said right, "The Jury Carmazin Block." Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways out of the situation that has now arisen. The law provides that some enterprises have patent benefits and are exempt from its acquisition of the Ukoopspiek company, says. So there are two ways out. First. Or it is allowed for all Ukooppilka enterprises, wherein I would like to point out, wherever in the villages that are in the cities. That's smart, isn't it? It's probably not like that. Why? Because if in cities in Kiev and other cities, why is the Ukoopspile business better than the enterprise of another form of ownership? It's probably not very smart. Then another question arises, or going in such a way as to give everyone equal conditions, and today in the villages there are plenty of other businesses, or going in the way of supporting the legislative initiative of our national MP, our colleague Paco. I propose a complex approach. First, to support the initiative of the Paco People's Deputy, but to support it, so that the benefit remains exclusively for those businesses of consumer cooperation located in rural areas. By the way, that's also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. For large cities, there must be normal free competition. The correct name of this law, quite wrongly right now it is called here, should be discussed to amend article 1 of the Law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity. And I agree with the editorial proposed by the Scientific and Expert Administration in this case, this is done in the following edition: “. enterprises and organisations of military trade, pharmacies in state ownership and in villages, villages and towns of district subordination of enterprises and consumer cooperatives and commercial and manufacturing state-owned enterprises of labour supply.” Thus, all those in the villages, villages, and cities of district subordination, small cities, will fall right here. Now, with regard to the help, the expert conclusion given to us by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, is the Deputy Minister of the Republic of Ukraine. We can also agree with him because he says that there will be no budgeting and that it will be necessary to agree with him, and the time for the law to enter into force should be increased and the law entered into force on January 1, 2007. This is then fully in line with the rules of the Budget Code. I'm in favour of the first reading, and I'm in favour of making the changes that I've been talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u113	I'm not going to say Vladimir Yavorowski's block, Yuri Karmazin. Dear colleagues, the consideration of every bill I think for every national MP, for politics, it's still an opportunity to look at the very problem that lies both in this law and around the law. I just wanted to talk to Ukrainian society today and to my fellow national MPs about this. Sometime back in 1990 or 1991, now I may not remember exactly, but it was introduced into this room, and a bill of professional association was introduced. It was introduced by Babenko, that is, the head of the cross-food group. And then maybe Parliament wasn't professional enough, so don't let me be offended, but I was in that Parliament, too, because it also applies to me, but then this law, which, in fact, has caused so much damage to Ukraine, about which today, it's impossible to evaluate it to the end. Then Babenko's deputies convinced him that nothing could be privatized in Ukosci because she said it was already privatized. So every spider that had this little book, and my grandmother was still small, and I think I had it, and I even had it, where some coins were paid, and we had this huge advantage in the village store to buy seals if they brought something else into the load. And so it was done that actually, privatization took place, but it happened in a shadow, behind the back. Think about how huge these are, in the district centers how many of these sausage shops, restaurants, whatever, it's all been captured by a small group of people today. Mr. Park knows it well because I know how he fought the same Babak. Because I said that because today we might be taking some very small, very cautious step towards at least a little democratisation of these communities. And, indeed, why does a person in a village who wants to survive today necessarily have to go and enter, for example, a consumer in order to have a patent? Why can’t an ordinary person, such as a family, be a family, how many of these shops are now open in small villages? Because of this, it's absolutely fair that today we have to get to a completely new level. Food is a society where people gather to, well, somehow support each other, to help each other, and before that, it was written, in general, that for the social development of the village and so on, although no one, did not invest anything in the village at that time. Because of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko supporting this bill, we also support the fact that in the second reading, we need to direct his ideology to the village in front of everything. I think that's going to be a step towards democratizing and opening the way for rural trade in front of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u114	Yuri Solomatin, please. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, our faction supports the draft bill in the first reading. But I would like to develop the interesting thought that the sweet-voice black-and-salt soloist gave from this rostrum, and I've been very good at exposing the situation that happened in the cooperative movement. And if this situation is very tight, it can be defined as: “The thief in stealing a third thief’s oak has stolen.” And so for today, we need to make arrangements for their relationship. Our faction thinks that this is a sad situation because, from the beginning, cooperative movements in Kiev have started to spread across separate cooperative-party apartments. And we stand for the cooperative movement to be independent of political preferences and to be united solely for the interests of the peasants, who are so bitterly and hotly hurt by certain persons from this rostrum. So at the end of my speech, I want to tell the villagers, first of all, I'm addressing you, see how you've been cheated and fooled since the '90s and '91s now. And if you ever believe this nonsense again, first of all, in the elections that are waiting for us, you're going to be fooled by a third, fourth and fifth. Be vigilant. Thank you, peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u116	Mikola Sadowa, POW faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u117	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz's faction. Rapid growth, the rapid economic transformation of the state, certainly breeds contradictions. In Ukraine, market relations are introduced, not mainly by economic laws, but mostly by strong, voluntary methods. These methods lead to the preparation of, and not rarely, harsh, unfounded laws and frequent changes. Such laws include the law on the patenting of certain types of entrepreneurship, its impreciseness leads to a number of cases, ambiguity of interpretation by the authorities of the relevant rule regarding the release of enterprises and the organization of consumer cooperatives from the necessity of obtaining a commercial patent. Of course, government authorities and local self-government bodies, according to the law, should contribute to the development and strengthening of the economic autonomy of consumer societies and their communities, to improving the efficiency of their activities, to preventing any restrictions on economic activity and the initiative of consumer co-operation, free and equal participation of them in the markets of goods, jobs and services. What about life? Let me give you an example of the city of Kirovograd. For example, there is a covered market there “Foodland”. In Kirovgrad, in the city council, I would call it the Clanovo-Finance lobby, which decided to limit the economic activity of the food industry and started a fierce battle for the trade lines, for the collection of funds, for the license, and eventually for the land owned by the food plant. Therefore, changes to the law must be made and consumer cooperation must be protected. The socialists support the basic provisions of the law, which are set forth in it, but offer such an offer. In the first reading, we support the bill and make a proposal: to write in more detail the other contradictions that arise between consumption and power, and in particular, at the beginning of the battle for land, the struggle for trade lines, the struggle for who will collect the appropriate pay for the use of the equipment that is installed there. Once again, socialists on the first reading support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u118	Thank you. On the basis of the vote, Valérie Assadchev's microphone. You will? Please, and then Eugene Gorenik and Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u119	Thank you. I'm not in the vote. We have a speech there and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party wants to confirm that we support this bill in the first reading. We want to be equal to the conditions of functioning and competition, including decentralization in the Ukooppilka system. And in this regard, this bill, in our view, deals with something in this regard. Therefore, we need to be supportive in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u120	Eugene Gorenik. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u121	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Colleague Yavorowski said that one of the Supreme Council's calls was to preserve the entire colporteur system in trade, motivated by the fact that it seems that private business in remote villages will not go, to engage in trade will not and must be preserved in this socialist form of cooperation. What came out of this is what we see. Stolen by the management of the cooperative itself. Because of this proposed law in time, it does in some way level competition, and in the first reading it needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u122	Igor Shurma, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u123	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] This bill stipulates that the Ukrainian Law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity is not extended to enterprises and consumer cooperatives, regardless of whether the consumer association or the consumer association is included in other consumer cooperatives. It seems to us that the adoption of this project should ensure a level playing field for all businesses and consumer cooperatives. Therefore, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the “NOT-TAO Opposition Block” proposes to support the bill in the first reading. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities is submitted to the vote, registration number 8168. [[on consumer co-operation]] Please vote on the basis. For – 259 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let us now consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Water Code of Ukraine. Reporter to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee for Water Management, Lelevsky Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Prepare the head of the Hennadia Rudenka committee for the report. We're following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Code of Water for Ukraine. The draft law will allow for a substantial improvement in water management, a methodological basis for the implementation of the basin’s management principle, as confirmed by the experience of developed countries. In addition, the need to amend Ukraine’s Water Code has been caused by changes in Ukraine’s legislation in recent years, especially in environmental and land laws. In the process of establishing legal relations related to the use of water objects and water funds, many outstanding issues arose. Yes, with the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Land, it was a matter of regulating the management of water funds on land, transferring water funds to municipal and private property. It requires a clear separation of powers between central and local executives on their water issues, the conduct of the water management pool principle, the improvement of the economic mechanism for regulating water relations, the creation of a single water monitoring information system, and the use of water funds. With the adoption of the bill, it provides for the design and operation of a pool management scheme for water resources. The water management of the river basin is planned to be based on a pool agreement that is a legal document and that strengthens the relationship of trusted parties, heads of ministries and other central executive bodies, government, water users, scientific, manufacturing, and public organizations of the pool. The changes to the Ukrainian Water Code take into account the legal norms of a number of Ukrainian laws adopted by the Supreme Council. That is why new articles have been included in the text of the Water Code on the definition of the priorities of State water policy, the powers of central and local executives, subjects and water objects, namely the implementation of the water principle of management, the provision of implementation under intergovernmental agreements, coordinated action with countries that share watersheds with Ukraine, aimed at improving water quality and so forth. In particular, the bill identifies land rental issues of the Water Fund and issues related to the protection of water objects from pollution. In particular, it should be noted that amending the Water Code will contribute to improving water legislation, implementing international conventions and agreements to which Ukraine has joined, ensuring integrated water management, which is one of the priorities of the State's water policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u127	Bill. The questions that will be asked by the people’s deputies will be dealt with in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u128	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. The report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Rudenko. [[We're following a reduced procedure.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, taking into account the procedure of consideration, I am even shortering it. The committee decided to send a bill for further work. But I would like to say, given the consultations that were held literally yesterday and today with the members of the committee, that, in principle, a chance to finalize the bill and get to a normal procedure, to a normal nature, to a normal ideology of changes to the Water Code, we can do it in a committee. If we send him for work, I'm really not sure that the bill will change ideologically. So as a compromise, I propose to adopt the bill as a basis. And I'm sure in two or three weeks we'll be working on it on the committee and taking it out, there's work to be done, to be considered by the Supreme Council. In large numbers, today the bill, taking into account the fact that it was initiated by the Cabinet, resembles a video entitled “Prostobashino” when it is written by various ministries, various authorities, taking their interests into account in the bill – and a system-wide bill is not read. We promise on the committee to work on it and bring it out in writing, to present a bill in a form in which it should, in principle, be brought up for consideration by the deputies of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u130	Yes, please, are you finished? Have you completed your report, or have you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u131	I'm done. I suggest that the MPs accept the bill as a basis, we work it out on the committee, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u132	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, please, the microphone. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends, let's not politicize everything. The water code is already being politicized. Well, if the committee offered to send for work, it has a report to say, first point, second point, third why did you send? Well, what's the reason? Why go to the rostrum and turn everything into politics? And we need to consider, if that's serious, we need to get it over with. If not too much, let's take the first reading, work on the second. I think it was the main question of the reporter, so I would like Mr. Rudenko to come out and say, "Why does the committee think he needs to be worked out?" What kind of problems? In fact, not by politicizing the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's about what's here. Well, we're going to finish now, then we're going to swap lines at the end, before you know it, you're going to say there's a document, there's a committee decision, let's get out of this. And obviously, I would ask reporters from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to rely on a collective decision, that is, a committee decision. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please, your right to speak. Prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, you give the right indication, "Block of Yuri Carmazin". Ladies and gentlemen, you say your name, yes, Yuri Carmazin. He's a one-family guy, yeah. So, dear friends, I would like us here to understand clearly that there is a regulation, a regulation requires the committee to report the committee's position, here from the rostrum, not an artistic whistle. Therefore, the opinion of any member of the committee, which is not confirmed by the committee's decision, has no right to be heard from the Supreme Council's rostrum. That's the first one. I'd like you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to respond immediately. If the committee doesn't think so, the microphone and the dot will be turned off. It's with all due respect to my colleague, the head of the committee. He may then express himself without using this time. Having studied both the Committee's opinion and the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Water Code, I want to say that there is a great deal of value in these changes to improve legislation. It also introduces the concept of “depleted water mines” and introduces the concept of “recovery of water resources” and introduces the concept of “public water policy” and seeks to define this state water policy. True, I do not agree with what is an object of water relations. I want everyone to stab themselves in the face that the object will always be the legal relationship that is governed by this code, not what you wrote. So, Your Honor, correct yourself. It's a code. It's a code, it's serious stuff. There is an attempt to ask questions about ownership of water objects and the land of the Water Fund. It's all positive, too. Competence of specially authorized organs, environmental standards of water quality are introduced. And in the end, perhaps our government will come to the point that today we have exactly as we were not careful about gas, and we also refer to water. We destroy water, drinking water. Drinking water is being drained, toilets are being washed, toilets. It's a crime. Each city has to develop a program where technical water will do all of this. Every city. Nothing is written here about the economy of drinking water. This has to be a separate chapter. Let us guard what the Lord has given us, for we will soon have nothing left to remember. I propose that you accept these suggestions in the first reading and that you assign it literally in two weeks to work on this codex, taking into account the comments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u136	Michael Gladys, a faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is invited to the presentation. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u137	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, indeed, the drafters of the Water Code Amendment Bill set out the task of bringing the Codex Earth into line for the first time. And did they succeed? I think it worked. About six directions. First, it is the provision of water objects for renting. The second is to clearly determine the competence of the specialized executive authorities in environmental protection. The third is environmental security, the fourth is conservation, and the fifth is hydrometeorological activities related to water management and control of water use and protection, and the production of water resources. And the sixth, to clarify the obligations of water users. But, dear colleagues, there are a number of shortcomings that I have to mention. The provisions relating to ownership of the land of the water fund, article 6, should be aligned with the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property, which determine the land of state and municipal property. Regrettably, this article is highlighted, or defined, weakly. Next. There is no basis for the proposal in article 7, on which basis and on which criteria for private ownership of citizens and legal persons, as decided by the executive or local authorities, can only be passed on free of charge by closed natural waters, nor is it clearly defined. You can also call a number of other flaws that are in this bill. But, taking into account all the pros and cons, our faction, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, supports this bill and proposes to vote in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u138	George Solomatin, a Communist faction, is invited to the presentation. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u139	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let us be distracted from some technical details and the allocation of authority among individual authorities. That's not what this bill is all about. Mainly in another, it was mentioned, but the proper emphasis, the strong emphasis on this, was not, in my view, made. If previously the Water Code, which so far exists, provided exclusively for State ownership of water resources and the coastal zone, it is now, in accordance with the adoption of the Earth Code, land, already different forms of property. Now, as a further step, it is proposed that the entire coastal zone and water resources should lead to almost universally accepted ratios of ownership, i.e. not only public, communal and private. For example, legal, physical, and special persons may have the right to acquire, free of charge, enclosed natural waters, up to three hectares of space. I now address those peasants, especially those who listen to the broadcast from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, now because such water bodies are leased, you cannot freely access such water bodies and at least engage in a favorite fishing activity. And when it is private property, you will not be able to approach it because private property is sacred and not touchable - “Stop, shoot!” I would therefore like to say from this point of view that what is further proposed here is: local water objects and rates, basins, rivers of general government importance can be leased and rents will be credited to the relevant local budget. But we know how all of this is transferred to the lease and what rental rates, i.e. almost the pronunciations and barons that have grown on the ground since the capitalization of Ukraine since 1991 and to our day, have already distributed everything. And this law will only create a roof at the legislative level that no one will be able to break. I think our faction also believes that this is a very serious danger, first of all, for the rural population of Ukraine, to be cut off from the natural resources that they used for centuries as they received sunlight, as they breathed air and so on. These issues, therefore, deserve a more serious settlement, and our faction believes that further work should be done on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u140	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u141	Calinchuk, Clothing, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to fill in that the Ukrainian Water Code was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 6, 1995. Its task was then to create a water environment and to ensure the environmental security of Ukraine’s population, as well as to make more effective use of water and its protection against pollution, pollution, and exhaustion. Of course, some changes have been made during this period, and new normative documents, including the new Earth Codex, have been adopted. Thus, the bill, which is presented, provides for the definition of new concepts and terms, provides for the possibility of water and water resources being held in public utility. And I think that's a good thing, because it fits the Earth Code. Water objects of local value and ponds in the rivers of state value can be rented and there's nothing wrong here, because de facto, it's already done. I'm positive. The adoption of the bill will lead to the introduction of separate standards of the Ukrainian Water Code in accordance with the existing legislation of Ukraine, namely the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine and others, giving a more clear definition of the powers of the specially authorized authorities of the State in the field of water management and control and water protection and the reproduction of water resources. At the same time, according to national MPs, members of the Block, the People’s Block of Vladimir Lithuania, there are a number of flaws, observations. For example, the first project section proposes changes and additions to the Ukrainian Water Code. Paragraph 47 of section 2 of the draft provides for changes to part one of article 4 of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. The bill thus introduces amendments and additions to the two current valid normative acts, taking into account the above, the name of the proposed draft amending the Code of Water for Ukraine is subject to further development, is subject to further work and should be aligned with some of the provisions of the Code of Budget. But in general, by studying all of these positives and negatives, our faction considers it possible to adopt this bill in the first reading with serious revisions to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u142	MPs, the bill is closed. We've got it. He'll be right on the line! We have two more national deputies who have not been able to speak, and we follow established practice, if they insist, in a minute. Vitaly Shibko, please. Then Valérie Assadchev, then head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Vitaly Shibko. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow honourable Members to the fact that our faction will vote in favour of this bill, although it is based on the fact that there is full supervision of the use of water. And that's one of the important questions that our faction always asks about, and that's the thing about nadr and that kind of thing. But, at the same time, I would like to say, can we, for today, be guided by the Budget Code and adopt this bill when it's not filed here as required by the Budget Code by September 15th in order to apologize by August 15th. It is meant that it is written that a specially authorized central authority for water management and budgetary water management organizations that are exempt from the payment of government duties at a summons to the court, the Economic Court of Justice with violations of water legislation and so forth. So the budget will not receive those already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u144	Yes, Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u145	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party In the absence of time, I will pay attention only to the difficult aspects of this bill. We are very concerned about regulating the use of coastal adjacent areas in the case of leases of water objects, as well as private property. And they're also very concerned about budget issues. Because water transportation is excluded from the list of payments made by the congregation for water use. And that, of course, can affect the budget's income. So I think if he goes through the first reading, the second one needs to be looked at by another budget committee. And there is such a request, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you give this commission to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Gennady Rudenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that when we looked at the water code on the committee, the changes to the water code were normal. The government worked. And to those coalition representatives who actually put their representatives in the government, I'm going to remind them of that. Then the situation became trivial. And the committee, when they decided to do the work, they tried to use all of the government's capabilities to work on all the agents and make a good, normal bill. Given the situation, we want to save the bill. And as an MP, I ask you to support the bill. We're on the committee, taking into account the trivial situation in the government, we promise to work it out. There's a lot of problems, the claim to the bill. He does have many new proposals, including a new executive body on the issue of fish farming, to which he is entrusted with his inequitable functions. But we, I repeat, on the committee will correct these mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The first sentence shall be put to the vote. On the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Water Code of Ukraine. Please vote. Please vote. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, first reading. For 205. The decision is not taken. Who would like to go back to the draft Law 8022, please vote. For 241. We're back. I'm voting on adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 8022]] To - 248. Decision taken. The draft Law “On Reparation by the State of Material Damage to Citizens Affected by Crime” is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6283]] Reporter: Deputy Head of Legal Policy Committee Vasil Fedorovich Sirenko Please, Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u149	Basil Sirenko, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. There are laws that spontaneously arise from the needs of life and are now placed in the order of the Supreme Council’s day. There are laws that society has long been pronouncing. It's going to be a long time before the idea of adopting a law or something. This law, which is being proposed today, has been pronouncing in our society for perhaps 50 years. I remember at the time of my studies, teachers told us about the need for adoption, that is, such a law. And now that the Constitution and the new Civil Code have been adopted, we realize today that the State is responsible to man for its activities, article 3 of the Constitution. Article 27 lays down the duty of the State to protect a person’s life. The 41 articles strengthen the integrity of citizens’ property rights. Finally, article 56 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to compensation for the State’s material and moral damage caused by illegal decisions, actions, or omissions of public authorities. Thus, in the new Civil Code, articles 11.77, 12.07 set out the order in which the damage caused by disability, other harm to the health or death of a citizen as a result of crime, as well as property, and so on, if the person who committed the crime is not established, is compensated by the State. This law also establishes the order according to which the state pays damages to the citizen if the person who committed the crime is not established. The purpose of this law is to increase the guarantees of the rights of victims of crime by providing them with social assistance in the form of compensation for material damage at the expense of the State. The draft law sets out the basis and conditions and establishes the order and extent of compensation at the expense of the State, the material damage to individuals who have suffered criminal attacks on their lives and health. This law provides for certain conditions, certain assumptions, according to which, if these conditions are met, a citizen is entitled to apply and receive adequate compensation of no more than 100 minimum wages. The law complicates the conditions for obtaining damages, but this is done to ensure that no harm is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u150	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u151	This is done to ensure that there is no attempt at corruption at the expense of the State. I ask you to uphold this law, considering that this law is one of the laws that guarantees the constitutional right of a citizen to compensate for the damage caused by the crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u152	Thank you, Visila Fedorovich, too. Have a seat, please. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. Deputy Justice Minister Mikolaajovich Šupenya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u153	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers understands the relevance of the bill and, in fact, the State has long grown to the point of adopting such a law that would allow the State to compensate for the material damage caused by the life and health of citizens by the crime of loss. But this bill contradicts the entire series of articles of the Civil Procedure Code, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Enforcement Act, and it does not comply with the Budget Code. That's why we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u154	Yes, Your Honor, we're voting, aren't we? Discussion? Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Sergey Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thank my colleagues in the “Regions” for reminding them that I am in the “Jury Carmazin Block”. Thank you. I didn't get out of it. Respectable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, criteria for the effectiveness of the law enforcement system, criteria for assessing the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights The Constitution is the detection of crimes committed against every citizen. Please tell me, if we do not have an opening year after year, if we have a victim today in some deplorable position? We have the defendant's protection, he's paid from the State Budget. We have a victim who can be challenged at any time without worrying whether he's comfortable or uncomfortable, and we all settle for the defendant, whoever committed the crime, which will then be set up by the verdict. Is it normal to do things wrong in the country and not do so in the beginning?Oh, my God! So this law is the first time that it asks the question of how to do what is right. Right: If the state takes taxes and maintains government officials for these taxes -- and this is the army, the police, the tax police, the Security Service, all intelligence and counter-intelligence -- it has to provide safe havens, including state property, and the health of the citizen. So that's exactly how I understand article 56 of the Constitution, which is what Sirenko's esteemed colleague was talking about. Thank him that he understands all of this. Thus, it is only when more than six months after a citizen has suffered material damage or another damage to his health that he has been hospitalized, and six months after the crime has not been solved, that the state has to compensate him. [[Article 3]] Yes, but then the state, then the government will call the minister of internal affairs, the heads of the U.S.S. Department -- and you'll ask them what they're responsible for, and not today they're giving press conferences on any of those issues that concern anything but the disclosure of crimes! That is when we in Parliament will be responsible for this because we are accountable to the citizens. Let's adopt this law, this is what our people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u156	Sergey Sinchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please, your performance. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, clearly supports this bill because it protects the legitimate interests of victims against criminal violations of their rights. But there are some things in this law that need to be worked out. The first is: the term “citizens” is used in the bill. That is, a foreigner and a stateless person who is contrary to article 26 of the Ukrainian Constitution are unjustifiably excluded. The Criminal Code on the Determination of the amount of damage caused provides for an untaxed minimum of citizens’ income, and the bill as such proposes a minimum wage. The procedure whereby only a prosecutor can apply for damages to a citizen for material damage at the expense of the State is applied for in article 9 of the bill. That doesn't fit the Constitution either. A citizen should have the right to seek the protection of his rights to the courts directly. The bill proposes the creation of a special fund for the victim in Ukraine, and the fund is to form part of the government budget's income from the payment of government duties and other revenues to the state budget. What does the Ministry of Finance suggest in this regard? The Ministry of Finance says it takes at least 2 million euros a year. So this sum has to be made out of the budget. And so it's clear that the Ministry of Finance doesn't support this law, and together it's a completely misunderstood position on this issue of the Ministry of Justice, because it's -- it's generally accepted in world practice -- form. So I propose and the faction suggests that it will support this bill, taking into account the comments and favoured this Law much more than the issues that can be settled in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u158	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, almost first of all, are proposed in the bill, which has been tabled by our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Fedorovich Sirenk, as well as Onopenk and Onischuk, to provide for compensation for the state of material damage caused to a physical person by a criminal attack on life, health, or property. If within six months the competent authorities have failed to identify the person who committed the crime. And today is how we do things. For a very long time, the questions of responsibility are addressed and criminals are sought by both the prosecution and the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And the bill will, to some extent, motivate the State and State institutions, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to take responsibility for the fact that, in the event of their inaction or insufficient activity on the detection of crime, the State will already compensate for the damage to human beings, and a person will feel not an orphan, but really an citizen of Ukraine. Clearly, then, the proposed bill should be supported. And I assure you that our faction will vote for it. And I call upon all the really national MPs of Ukraine, regardless of their political preferences, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u160	Thank you, too. Anatoly Frost, please, your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u161	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, Volodymyr Litvina Block. Dear colleagues, there may not be a single member in this room who would not confirm that this law is very relevant today, as there is no concern among our electorate of people who would not face the executive service on this issue that we are considering today. Therefore, if the state is unable to ensure a fair settlement of damages caused by any other citizen, it must, the State, compensate for the loss of the legal rights of the subject. And in this way, to compensate for the lack of constitutionally declared guarantees of citizens. It's an axiom that testifies to the ideology and philosophy of the bill that we're looking at today. Certainly there are no countries in the world where human rights are not violated — that is, there is no one in the world who would be able to ensure that they are respected, although Europe has always been the legislator of these humanistic values, since our nation is the guarantor of the integrity of human rights, it is the primary responsibility for violating these rights. And here's an important little detail. The state is not a specific subject that exists with itself, it is a political instrument on whose behalf public officials and special agents carry out their functions, which, as a result, depends on how well the State's employees and special workers are doing, depends on the level of guarantee of the integrity of citizens' rights. Therefore, when it comes to compensation by the State for the damage caused by members of society, the members of the “Lithuania People’s Block” stand for the position that the main tasks of the State should be to create such conditions of work, for example, the same law enforcement bodies, for which other actions have in principle been excluded, as we all well know that the cause of many problems, including in the State, is usually human negligence and indifference. One of the great said: “Fear the apathetic people, for their agreement is to commit the most terrible crimes in the world.” That is why we support the bill proposed for consideration, which sets out the order of compensation for damages, while supporting the idea of a radical change in the principles of the order of social life, where there is no place of humiliation of human dignity, and in the event of execution, the occurrence of an incident of civil disobedience by Ukrainian citizens, were law-abiding citizens of Ukraine, were confident that the State would protect them from the so-called “strenchless” and in full damage to material and moral damage. That's why we support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u162	Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion is over. It's a motive, Zizko. We've got Sadowy if he insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u163	Dear national MPs, the law is really up to date. His standards are quite thorough, although there are a number of important observations. However, in my opinion, the proposed law cannot be enacted because it contains one very serious problem. This is about compensation for property damage caused to citizens by the commission of a crime. The imposition of this law can result in numerous abuses and serious losses to the State budget. If a person is injured by a crime, the degree of injury can be established and assessed, the necessary medical expenses. But as can be confirmed, for example, the fact that jewelry is stolen, money, including facts, can result from the negligence of citizens. Why, then, should the State compensate for property expenses? I have a bill on the basis of a bill that foresees no compensation for property damage, and I would like to take this into account. We will not vote for his acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u164	Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u165	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We will support the bill in the first reading, but it certainly needs to be finalized. First of all, we will support it because the main purpose of the law is to increase the guarantees of the rights of citizens who have suffered crime. And by giving them social assistance to make up for at least a fraction. I can give an example of the city of Kirovograd. Even if you mention the 100th constituency, where the court's decision established the crime that was committed as a result of the falsification of the relevant protocols and other documents. Until then, however, the investigation had not brought the matter to an end. There, despite the fact that the crime was committed and confirmed by the court, both the Henprosecutors and the prosecutor's office on the spot failed to verify the legal, logical conclusion of the court. So socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u166	Now, Sadowy's speaking. There's no Proscuratov, there's no Assad. Vassil Fedorovich Sirenko, final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I am understandingly referring to the critical comments about this law, there are many points that should be taken into account in the second reading. And in the second reading, you must also consider the question of compensation, which is the minimum size involved. But with regard to the critical remark that has been made, how can we determine material harm when it comes to the loss of valuables and all that? The language in this law goes only if the investigation has established such damage. Not what a citizen is said to be fanciful. Not a citizen's fantasy, but if the investigation found it to be such a pity. The investigation is based on witnesses, on other sources of information, and so forth. So we're talking only about the material damage that the investigation has established and the investigation is investigating, but there's been nothing for six months. The culprit was not found. A citizen suffers damage. Then it is the citizen’s right to seek redress for these losses. So I think that the law and your faction should review their attitude to this law. The investigation is being conducted on behalf of the State. Yes, on behalf of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-18-m0.u168	Yes, thank you, Vasil Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law, registration number No. 6283 on compensation at the expense of the State for material damage to citizens who have suffered from the law, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. There's a vote coming. For 246. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, according to the decision we have made, we are working in plenary today and after 16 hours. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
