ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u1	Members, please take your seats. Prepare to register. Please announce that the meeting will begin. Turn the "Council" system on, we have a roll-up. [[16:01:41]] 409 national deputies registered. The evening session shall be declared open. We have a number of questions to reconsider with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. They're on your hands, too. And that's why we take turns. They are subject to the second reading procedure. It is I who remind those who, let's say, are in possession of the Rules. The first is the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter, with proposals by the President since August 9, 2006. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter, which was returned by the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine with proposals, is being introduced. The Law, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 July of this year, gives its consent to Ukraine’s full obligation to the European Social Charter and entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit a timetable for the introduction of all European Social Charter standards by 1 October 2006. [[revised]] [[revised]] The President of Ukraine did not sign the prescribed law because the obligations Ukraine is making under the Law, which was passed by the President of Ukraine, are not foreseen. This applies to article 2, paragraph 3, article 4, paragraph 1, article 12, article 13, article 19, article 25, paragraph 3, article 31. And those articles and paragraphs cannot be executed in view of the real possibilities of the State. Today, despite the significant disruptions that have taken place in the area of social protection reform, Ukraine has not yet been able to fulfil its obligation to ensure the size of the minimum social standards envisaged by the European Social Security Code. By the way, I would like to point out that Ukraine has not yet ratified this codex. This, in turn, would lead to a breach of Ukraine’s obligations under the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties, which, under article 9 of the Constitution, is part of Ukraine’s national legislation and in accordance with articles 26 and 27, which every valid treaty is binding on its participants and must be implemented in good faith. A participant cannot refer to the position of his or her internal right as an excuse for failing to perform his or her contract. It should also be noted that the accession to the Charter, as proposed by the draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine, fully meets both the requirements of the Charter and international experience. For information, I would like to tell the Ukrainian National Deputies that by September 2006, all 46 countries of the Council of Europe had signed this charter, but only 22 countries had ratified it. Only France and Portugal were fully ratified. The Council of Europe has a clear mechanism for monitoring the performance of its obligations under the ratified Charter and the Committee of Independent Experts is very strict in its failure to comply with its requirements, which may in turn lead to negative conclusions on Ukraine and sanctions. Taking into account the state's real capabilities and the position of the Charter, I ask you, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to submit the Law on the Ratification of the European Social Charter to review the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine for consideration by letter dated 30 June 2006 at number 1 - 1.663. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u3	Thank you. And I want to speak to the MPs with those words. The second reading procedure provides for agreement or disagreement with specific parts of the document, but here a specific document, it touches close to, in fact, nearly a hundred points. And we can't go that way. And on the second reading, there's no question-answers, but since this is the general content of the document, let's control that possibility, or we'll use that opportunity, because that's going to affect the voting. And the solution here might be this: or we're overcoming the President's veto -- and we're totally introducing, like the two countries in Europe, this charter; or we're agreeing with the President's proposals, considering the first part of this charter as a declaration of the purposes for which we're going to fight, and we're going to put in any part of this charter, so that you can join the process yourself. So sign up for the question, five minutes before the question is answered, and then let us continue our work around the subject. A woman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u5	Please. Dennis, that's what I said, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u6	Thank you. Be kind, Mr. Minister. Denisova, the BUT faction. Please. Here is the President's conclusion, and it is calculated that two billion 200 million bracelets are needed to bring the social system in the country to a satisfactory state. What calculations justify this figure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u7	You know, given that you're operating on an article, it's only about one article in the 13th of two billion. But in addition to this article, I have listed to date, if I take all 7 articles of paragraphs that were not in the draft law that submitted to the President of Ukraine, the value of these seven articles and paragraphs is equal to five national budgets of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to give you information because I was preparing for this meeting and examined it. Here is a list of all 22 countries that have ratified this European Social Charter. [[revised]] Thus, 6 of the 9 articles are mandatory for ratification. Ukraine will ratify 6 of the 9 mandatory articles under the draft Act submitted by the President of Ukraine. In addition, it is assumed that there are also mandatory 16 articles and paragraphs. Ukraine ratifies 27 mandatory articles and paragraphs. For example, I would like to give you a total number of articles and paragraphs on countries such as Norway. If Ukraine ratified 27 articles, Norway ratified 22 articles. For example, Finland will ratify 26 articles. That is, for items we have the required minimum number of paragraphs 63, Ukraine proposes ratification 74. You know, frankly and honestly, the very fact of ratification of the European Social Charter is the greatest step forward, in general, in the social protection of Ukrainian citizens. [[revised]] Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that ratification of this Charter is not a protocol of intent. This is a binding document in which Ukraine commits itself, after a month of credentials to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, we will be monitored for each item. If we do not implement at least one of those paragraphs, Ukraine will be affected accordingly. If you look at the social charter itself as revised, and I have specifically taken its text here, the mass of socially meaningful articles and items, among which are the 74 points relating to both the social protection of women and the equality of women and the social protection of families, the social protection of persons with disabilities, are very important today. I'd like to support it. With regard to the articles that Ukraine is not ready to make today, I have already said the cost of these articles, I believe that experts will confirm the five budgets of Ukraine. I would like to support this bill as drafted by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u8	Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u10	Please. If you can, you might want to ask a question, rather than answer it, because it's going to be a simple dialogue of two interesting people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u11	Thank you. I would like to ask the distinguished Minister another question. I understand what you're saying that instead of 16 necessary, we support 23 articles. But the charter consists of two parts: one part that simply says that we intend to move and build a State of social comfort, and the other part just speaks of the country's legal obligations. So tell me, we are. But we do not want to take on even the minimum, such as the provision of working conditions that are comfortable for a person to receive a normal wage. How are we going to deal with this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, thank you for the right question. Thus, the article you are referring to is article 4, paragraph 1, which provides for the right of workers to receive the reward that provides them and their families with an adequate standard of living. You know that we have article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that pensions, other types of social benefits, aid, which is the main source of existence, should ensure that the standard of living is not lower than the subsistence minimum established by the law of Ukraine. You know, you're taking decisive steps to make sure that we have a minimum wage set at the minimum wage. We've now reached a ratio that the minimum wage is 71 percent of the minimum wage. By the end of this year, we're going to be 80 percent. And for the next year, we plan to get even closer to the minimum of living. And I'd like to say for information that aside from this minimum wage, we still have help. For example, unemployment benefits for insured persons today amount to 34 percent of the cost of living. Like you, I'd like this help to be a minimum of living. But that takes nine billion dollars. This is either to increase the workload of the Wages Fund, or to increase at least fourfold the Wages Fund itself. You know, in the macroeconomic indicators of the budget next year, a $191 billion labor fund is planned. While this year we have 160 billion. So 20 percent increase. But the country is not yet ready to meet these requirements economically and financially. That's why. These are the responsibilities of the country that can lead to appropriate action by the Council of Europe. And I'd like you and I to make some well-considered state decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u13	Thank you, have a seat, please. John Bondarchuk of the profile committee is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u14	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. In addition to what the minister has said, I can only say the following. On July 21st, you and I ratified the Charter, the European Social Charter in its entirety, despite the fact that there was such a big discussion. But obviously, we were in a state of euphoria to some extent, and we approved this charter, and we ratified it more faithfully in full measure. We already knew it would be a presidential veto, because we put up a plank that unfortunately we can't handle. Therefore, in reviewing the bill once again, after the Presidential veto, the committee unanimously voted in favour of accepting the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I'm going to say once again that we have an exit alone, or we're overcoming the veto, or we're accepting the President's proposals, and the third one is not being given. But it seems to me that, once again, we have voted unanimously on the committee to support proposals, understanding the dissatisfaction of a certain and inner state of things among us, but it is that article 4, paragraph 1, articles 12, 13, 19, 25 and article 31, paragraph 3, of the Charter are not yet ratified. So we're taking the first step. Let's put it this way, it's about, in particular, the health care of our fellow countrymen. If we can double, triple, during the budget approval or budget process, the health care costs of our population can be tripled, then we can ratify the same article 31, for example, without any restrictions. Can we do this today? Oh, no? We can't. And so in every article. The minister reported that, say, 2.2 billion is needed to ensure the implementation of one article, 9 billion is another, and so on. So let's, dear fellows, we're going to act on the step by step principle, we're going to step in, we're going to do it consistently. If we can increase funding in these areas or directions that are not yet ratified in the budget approval process, then we will always be able to further ratify those articles of the European Social Charter that we are producing today. We fully comply with all the EU's requirements for the ratification of this document. So I'm just asking and calling for support for the President's proposals to vote in favour of ratifying the European Social Charter with those restrictions that were reported on July 21st. So start moving in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u15	Thank you, I can see so much that there are no questions for Ivan Mikolaiovich, so convincing. Do you have it? One minute, Ivan Mikolaiovich, would you like to sign up? Give Victor the floor for three minutes. Sign up, please, and then I will give you my word, for no one else will be registered. No, we're still on, Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u16	Is this for the show?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u17	Questions to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u19	Chechtev, I said. Chechetov doesn't want to talk, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u20	Dear reporter! In case the President's proposal is supported, which will put pressure on the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u21	It'll be like that, you mean what? That they'll be provided with the instruments that are ratified and the budget will be charged by about 10 to 15 percent when it comes to the social sphere, which is larger than the current year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u22	All right, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u23	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear John Mikolaiovich! You have faithfully observed that the Committee on Social Policy and Work has unanimously supported these proposals by the President of Ukraine, because, as the requirements of the European Social Charter have been reviewed, they are being monitored by an independent committee of experts. And in principle we have, I have a question like this, we have the basic Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. I want to support your point of view that we should gradually approach European social standards without giving up what we want to be real, because we understand very well that, if this is about something promised and not financially provided, it is just social evil. It destroys society and brings no good to the development of our civil society. Please tell me, Ivana Mikolaiovich, about the issues of state, social and state social guarantees, how will we reflect when we ratify this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u24	Well, as we're going to be with you in the next stage of our work, it's the budget work. In particular, all the provisions of the State budget regarding social protection of the population. Our next step is not to allow the budget resolution to cut social spending, but to ensure that the increase I was talking about is 15 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u25	Dennis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u26	Ivan Nikolaevich! Please tell me, as the former Minister of Finance of the Crimea, I also support decisions that are provided with financial resources or with economic measures that will provide such financial resources to carry out certain tasks, including, above all, in the social sphere. The previous speaker, Mr. Minister, said that we were going to build a social state. You said we had to move on to some stage. Be good, tell me, we've been going independent for 15 years. What stages have we gone through, and what is our next one now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! You can see how interesting and acute this question is, because the biggest opponents to me as the committee heads are the First Deputy Dry and Deputy Denisov this once again tells us that a very acute problem. And I think you and I have already talked about this at the committee meeting. But if you insist, I say again that we are now at the stage where we are. We need to confirm whether by ratifying the European Charter, we need to identify the orientations to which we will be guided by approving the State budget. Yes, there is no time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, there are no further questions, sit down, Ivan Mikolaiovich. We work in second reading mode, where there are no questions discussed. If you have something to say before the vote, I give Tara a word, because he insists on it and then we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u29	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". I wanted to ask the reporter a question, Alexander Alexanderovich, but at least let it sound that way. The Charter refers to a whole range of human rights, that is, one has the ability to make a living in a profession that he freely chooses, the right to just working conditions, and so forth. But the President’s proposals are that, in fact, the right to a reward that ensures a sufficient standard of living for the family, the right of migrant workers, members of their families, or all of these constitutional standards, the President of the Apriori cannot implement. So what's the point of ratifying this charter if it's not done before. And here was the idea that it could be done if there were sufficient revenue in the budget. I would just like to remind you once again that people already know that RossukrEnergo’s profits have increased from two billion to five and that gas prices have increased fourfold and money has gone to the oligarchs. So you don't have to steal and do the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u30	We will make decisions, and I will take the risk of continuing with the one we started in the first session. But with the motive of insisting on Cibenko from the Pension Insurance Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u31	Thank you. The Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the faction of Communists, when we last considered this charter, not only voted in favour of this document, but also insisted on taking it to the hall and supporting it. But in the way it was presented today, the faction of Communists will not support it. I want to explain. Dear colleagues, of the nine mandatory six we support. But three of the most important things are not supported. We won't ratify. Moreover, even in the previous coming of today's Minister of Social Policy, we said that we should move from social protection to social standards. But it has been a few years, and we are also far from social standards as we are today. So I would like to stress once again that the Communist faction believes that this document should be accepted in principle. But in the way that the Supreme Council voted it the previous time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u32	So we did finish the discussion on this point, taking into account what we did during the first session. It's a second reading procedure. We don't even talk about voting anymore. But it is my duty to sum up what happened. I'll tell you what. If a state with the highest standard of living for people in the world -- Norway -- thinks that some standards are still too high for it, obviously we can't go into this line right now. Because we can base, you know, with torn pants to keep being criticized by those who control the execution of this charter. This obviously explains the motivation of the President, who addressed us with such veto remarks. On the other hand, all that is said today, and Peter Stepanovich has just spoken, should in some way oblige us to meet these standards. So the position can be the same. It can also be considered. But by procedure, I'm putting the President's proposal to the vote first. And given that the responsibility for the implementation of this charter rests with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is obvious that we should take this proposal seriously. On the other hand, if we don't vote on this proposal all of a sudden, then I'm going to ask questions about overcoming the President's veto. That's how the procedure predicts. There are no other options here. So I'm voting now on the draft Ratification Act in the version proposed by the President of Ukraine. Please identify yourself. [[16:28:37]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 178, Block Timoshenko - 23, “Our Ukraine” - 57, Socialists - 32, Communists - 0. A draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Social Protection Laws, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is under consideration. Reported by Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, Deputy Finance Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u33	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine applied the veto on the signing of the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 4 April 2006 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Social Protection Laws, which resides in Observation Zones. Number 3594-4. The proposed law changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security provide that the population of areas in which uranium mining is located, nuclear installations, facilities designed to deal with radioactive wastes from 1 January 2007 will have the right to establish a special energy conservation regime, to create social infrastructure in the observation zone, to monitor the population's annual medical monitoring in the observation zone. The procedures for the exercise of such rights are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, sub-paragraphs 2 and 4, para. 1, section 1 of this Act. The Act also proposes to amend article 17 of the Law on Electricity concerning the mandatory inclusion in retail electricity tariffs for the population living in the observation zone, the socio-economic compensation for the risk of living in the zone, and to take account of the extent of such compensation in the regulation of electricity tariffs produced at nuclear power stations. The law under consideration is scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2007, that is, the deadline is over. Dear National Deputies! The proposals made by the President of Ukraine for the law are as follows. The measures proposed by this law to increase the social protection of the population and the corresponding categories of persons in general deserve support. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the creation of social infrastructure in the area of monitoring and implementation of annual health monitoring of the population in the observation area will require additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine. However, the sources of expenditure for such monitoring are not defined by law, contrary to article 27 of the Code of Budgets. Under these circumstances, the implementation of the stated provisions of the Ukrainian Law may lead to a budget balance that does not correspond to the stated article 95 of the Constitution of the principle of the State's desire for budgetary balance and the underfunding of other social programmes. In addition, the extension of socio-economic compensation due to the creation of social infrastructure will result in double compensation to the population in question, since the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security already defines the use of part of the funds invested in the construction of facilities and facilities for the construction of social objects. It should also be borne in mind that the implementation of these regulations will lead to higher electricity tariffs and increased cross-subsidisation of electricity consumers living in surveillance zones by consumers living in other areas. Dear National Deputies! To sum up what has been said, please support the President of Ukraine and reject the Ukrainian Act of 4 April 2006 No. 3594-4 on amending certain Ukrainian social protection laws that live in observation zones, such as those that are not supported by real budgetary resources and do not comply with the Ukrainian Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u34	Is there a question for the reporter? There's a dry question. You don't have to take notes, do you? None. Please, the Dry One asks a question. Do you have one? Then three minutes to ask, please. Two men on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u35	Thank you. Anatoly Ivanovich! Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I have a question from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. There can be no reason to reject this bill, because we are thus narrowing the social security of people in many areas where nuclear power plants are located, where people live under constant fear. Please tell me, why has the Ministry of Finance never passed a bill on the return of savings or on compensation for the psychological risks that half of the population of Ukraine faces? Why do you constantly submit a veto proposal to the President of Ukraine without offering anything? Tell me, please, what do you think the Ministry of Finance is proposing to replace the 0830 Social Protection Bill, which resides in observation zones? Just to say no, that's not going to happen anymore, we're not going to let you do that anymore, no matter what kind of government you are and whose government you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u36	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Supreme Council's profile committee, has considered this bill and the veto on a draft since April 4th, and we have come to agree with the committee on what it can be done, this bill can be edited, and in the materials that you have been given these draftings already included, and in the editorial that has been given, it means, by the appropriate committee, the Ministry of Finance believes that this bill can be supported. So we're going to solve the question that we asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u37	Matthew, then Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u38	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, well, the point is that I would like to remind our television and radio audiences once again that the population of areas where uranium mining enterprises, nuclear installations, radioactive waste management facilities were entitled to establish, in particular, a special energy consumption regime. So how do you figure? The President's proposals say that the creation of social infrastructure in the area of observation and implementation of annual medical monitoring of the population in this area will require additional funding from the State Budget, which is what you've been talking about. Yet, how many people live in these areas, and what expenses are required by the State Budget to implement the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u39	Thank you. According to our calculations, there are about 4 million people living in this area, and if we apply the law adopted on April 4, the expenses will be, no, expenses will be monitored, medical monitoring will be about 400 million dollars. In the new project, in the new edition, we're not going to be doing thorough monitoring, but we're going to be doing monitoring of only representative groups, and so we're going to be able to significantly reduce the cost of implementing this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u40	And where did you get four million in that area? There's no $4 million there. Look where it is. South Ukrainian, Zaporzikka, near Nicopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u41	And there's uranium mining and nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u42	Well, this is the Kirovograd area, basically, where it's not that dense a population area. And there's Raven and Hmelnick, Kuznetsowski is coming. There's no $4 million. That's not what this is. But it's a detail. Let's say it's important. Nevertheless, Tomenko asks questions, and you will sit down and answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u43	Anatoly Ivanovich! Mikola Tomenko. Here is your answer, or more precisely the lack of a clear answer to this question, which leads me to believe that, obviously, such bills, with all due respect for the PEC Committee, need to be considered in pairs by the Labour and Social Policy Committee. Because I fully support my colleague, the President's and the government's design should be as follows: that if this is large enough funding, at least suggest a first step. We're starting, for example, to finance and monitor the population medically, or we're starting to build social infrastructure. Because the Supreme Council worked, prepared a bill – now you come and say: “Let’s not have money, we’ll turn everything back, and you sit and think.” So a constructive approach is that at least part of the social projects for the observation zone would vote. Then there would be understanding in the session room. So I think we should, Alexandre Alexandrovich, two committees in that case, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u44	Mikola Volodymyrovich, since I understand that this is not a question, but rather an offer, we suggest to the reporter that we take a seat. And I can't see from the profile committee of Martinek. Oh, Bronnick's gonna do the show. Please, Vladimir Costinovich Bronnikov will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u45	Respectable colleagues are said to have been unhappy if they did not. Repeated events in Novo Bogdanovka, in my view, have prompted the Ministry of Finance to reflect on why atomicists are so persistently trying to protect the population that lives in the nuclear station. It's not four million -- it's about half a million people, if you say so. And we sat down, in fact, as Anatoly Ivanovich says, and we took down the misunderstanding that was between the committee -- there are specialists -- and the Ministry of Finance, which we had de facto the Ministry of Budget, not financial treatment in our country. Therefore, we have prepared an agreed draft law, both by the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Energy, and by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, in which we have come to the mutual agreement that all risks of living in this territory will be compensated and, in any emergency situation at the nuclear facility, the burden of medical radiation on the population will not be exceeded. In addition, it was expected that medical monitoring would be conducted, which would not be complete, but would allow for the assessment of the health status of the population in different categories. And there will be no cross-subsidization, because, of course, the price of electricity in this area is much lower than the price in the remote area. A new text has therefore been prepared. Unfortunately, a new regulation has changed since the veto. And the Rules that we adopted with you at the end of the fourth there, he prescribes, if the text has changed, there must be a new law. Therefore, simply as amendments to that law, although agreed upon, they cannot vote in contrast to the President of the veto. That's the rule, that's our domestic law. The Committee therefore agrees on this law, which it proposes to support the veto, and we report to you that the new text of the law on this issue has, in fact, already been submitted to the Supreme Council with the Cabinet of Ministers. And we talked to the committee manager that we'd be spending it soon. And, of course, the issues of the social and our relevant committee will also be addressed and all of its comments will be taken into account and supported. The Committee therefore proposes to support the veto. And the Committee asks you, when this law is passed, to redraft the Act, to quickly pass it through the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u46	Thank you, sit down, please. I'd like to address you with such a proposal, the procedure provides for this technology: I'm voting on the President's draft rejection of this law. But the discussion and questions indicate that the deputies do not intend to do so. On the other hand, you might ask questions about overcoming the President's veto, but the committee's report itself confirms that a new project is being prepared to be considered. This is then covered by the procedure: we need to put this project up for re-adaptation. So I simply have to endure the procedure. I'm putting the President's proposal to reject this project. Please vote. [[16:43:51]] For 203 That's not going to work. With your consent, I will not ask the question of overcoming the veto. I'm in. Should I put it on? Well, please, who's in charge of rejecting the President's veto. Beat the veto. I bet. [[16:44:21]] For-136 There weren't enough voices. So I'm voting on the proposal to go over this project and re-examine it by the Supreme Council. Please, this is a committee proposal. Please. [[16:44:46]] For 376 Decision taken. Thank you. We have a daily draft law on the status of investigators. But the committee's asking him to take it off the table right now because he has further suggestions and observations on this project. That's why I'm not going to put him on the stand with you. We'll put it on later. Before I consider the next question of clarity in voting, I will make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 59 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the formation of the National Deputies of Demidka, Demchinov, Lithuania, Mitroshkina, Rozgonyaeva, Falka and Jakmenka as a member of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm also announcing that. Listen, please. According to the same articles of the law and the Rules, the Socialist Party’s factions include the national deputies Bogchuk, Zubko, and Savosin. That is what I was obliged to do as chairman of the meeting. A draft Ukrainian law on recognition is now under consideration, in which certain decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council's decree of 1603 have become invalid. In 2006 In this regard, the First Deputy Minister of Economy, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u47	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. On February 22, this year, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Recognition Act in such a way that certain Cabinet decrees and the Supreme Council decrees, to which such proposals have been made by the President, have become invalid. First. Paragraph 6 of chapter 6 of the Act proposes that one law should be recognized by the fact that the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of December 15, 1992 on measures to complete the commercialization of enterprises, public food organizations and services. The decree halted article 33 of the Property Act, according to which the administration of state property on behalf of the people is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local councils of the Ukrainian National Deputies, as well as by the authorized state authorities. The loss of validity of the decree will result in the renewal of the rules of the law, which conflict with article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, concerning the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers in the administration of public property. Taking into account what has been said, it is proposed that chapter one of the laws be supplemented by clauses on recognition in such a way that paragraph one of article 33 of the Property Act has become invalid. Second, paragraph 15 of section 1 of the Act proposes to be recognised as having lost the validity of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 January 93 on the quota and licensing of exports of goods, jobs and services. Article 4 of the Decree suspended the operation of Articles 3, 9 and 4(4) of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity. Impaired standards provide that external economic operators have the right to perform external economic activity only after the relevant national registration and that such registration is ordered. By recognizing a decree that has become invalid, the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity will be renewed, and therefore the mandatory state registration of all external economic activity entities. This is not in line with article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, as defined by the principles of due diligence, adequacy and balance of State regulatory policy. In this regard, it is proposed that section 1 of the Act should be supplemented by provisions on recognition of those that have lost the validity of Article 5, Part 3, 9, Part 4, and Article 9, Part 4, paragraph 4, of the Law on External Economic Activity. And the third offer. Section 1 of Section 19 of the Act provides that the Government's decree of 17 March 93 “On granting State guarantees for foreign loans granted to Ukraine in accordance with international agreements” has become invalid. This decree is the only legislative act to determine that the guarantor of credits, which, in accordance with Ukraine's international agreements with foreign governments, international finance, are awarded to Ukraine by foreign governments, international financial institutions and foreign banks, on behalf of the State, is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Part 1 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget provides for the granting of guarantees by the Cabinet of Ministers in the person of the Minister of Finance for the performance of debt obligations solely within the limits of the powers established by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Under these circumstances, we cannot agree with the recognition of a person who has lost his office, decree No. 25-93. In view of the foregoing, section 1, paragraph 19, of the law is proposed to be deleted. Request to accept the President's proposal for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u48	Is there a question for the reporter? No, sit down, please. Please let the committee report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u49	Dear head, dear fellows! Your opinion is proposed by the draft law “On recognition of those who have lost the validity of certain decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which the President has returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with his proposals”. The bill planned to stop one Supreme Council decision and 23 Cabinet decrees. All these normative acts have become obsolete because their standards have been exhausted or regulated by Ukraine’s laws. From the point of view of the President of Ukraine, this project could not be signed because the loss of validity by individual decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would result in conflicts and conflicts in Ukraine's legislation. In particular, with regard to the actions of article 33, paragraph 1, of the Property Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local council of Ukrainian National Deputies, as well as the authorized state bodies, are carrying out State administrations on behalf of the people. This action, to date, has been halted by the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on measures to complete the commercialization of enterprises, public trade organisations, public nutrition and services, and the loss of validity of the decree will result in the renewal of the Act on Property. Although the restoration of such an action will not play a major role because of the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Constitution, in our view it is still necessary to agree with the President on the completion of the text of the bill, in particular with regard to the suspension of the general higher rule of the Ukrainian law on property. Secondly, recognized as having lost the validity of the Decree on quotas, licensing, exports of goods, jobs and services. It will restore some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity and will restore the necessary application to today's unwarranted and outdated registration of participants in external economic activity, which will worsen the conditions for doing so. Therefore, it is also appropriate to stop the relevant provisions of Ukraine's Pro-ZED Act by a separate provision in the bill, as proposed by the President. And third. The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree on granting State guarantees on foreign loans granted to Ukraine under international agreements is the only legislative act of Ukraine to convince the President that the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers is a guarantor of international loans on behalf of Ukraine. This can also be agreed with because the Ukrainian Budget Code and the relevant Ukrainian State Budget Act for the corresponding year, which have a higher legislative power than the decree, still apply to one separate budget year. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, recommends that one of the President's proposals be supported. The management’s comments on two other proposals are not critical and totally unacceptable. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance and Banking on 6 September this year, the President of Ukraine's proposal for recognition was considered and a decision was taken by the Committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the President's proposals and to approve the prescribed law taking into account these proposals and observations. Dear colleagues, you've been given a comparative table that shows and marks the position of the committee. Please note that during the drafting of the project, as noted above, changes have been made to halt the separate norms of the two laws of Ukraine. In view of the standard design technique, this suggested a change in the name of this project. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u50	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. You're looking at a comparative table for this bill. You can see here four proposals by the President, all of whom are taken into account during the committee's deliberations and, taking these proposals into account, the committee proposes to support the draft law with the president's comments. I think since you didn't raise that question, this decision, or this bill didn't raise any questions for you, you obviously agree that the President is right in this case. Let's vote if you don't mind. Let's vote on this bill with the president's comments. Yeah? Then I'm putting this project to a vote. [[16:55:46]] For 383 The bill, more faithfully, was passed with the President's remarks. Now the President will sign it without a doubt, I think, and he will take action. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing with the President's proposals of March 21st of this year is under consideration. Mr. Tetjana Ivanovna, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u51	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 23 February 2006 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Audit Act, made proposals for reconsideration of this law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Act on Auditing Activities of Ukraine is proposed in a new law. Part one of the first article 8 of the new Law provides for, inter alia, a mandatory audit to confirm the reliability and completeness of the annual financial reporting of economic operators whose reporting is subject to official publication under Ukrainian law. This means that it is also mandatory to conduct an audit, and for the principals of the funds, the budget costs, since, in accordance with part four of article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the main funds managers of Ukraine’s State Budget carry out an annual public presentation of budget expenditure reports. The introduction of a mandatory audit for such operators will further require considerable budgetary expenditure to pay for the work of the auditors creates difficulties in carrying out audit activities by the relevant public authorities empowered to carry out State financial control, such as the State Audit Service and the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes to complete article 8, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing, in a new edition, by saying: “except for institutions and organizations that are fully supported by the State Budget.” Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and make an appropriate addition to article 8, section 1, paragraph 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u52	Thank you for the report. No questions asked by the reporter? I see. Then please take your seat. From the Committee of Europeans Yuri Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, please. What does the committee have to say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u53	The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 6 September this year considered and supported the proposals of the President of Ukraine for amendments to the Auditorship Act. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and adopt the Ukrainian law, taking into account the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. The proposal of the President of Ukraine is to change article 8 of this law. This has already been discussed by the previous speaker and to exclude from the list of organizations and agencies that are necessarily subject to an audit of state enterprises that are wholly owned by our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u54	Right. Thank you for the report. Are there any other questions? Myrrhichenko, one question, please. I told you to turn on the Merchant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u55	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please tell me, how does international practice, world practice, when not only dorsal subjects, or in general, legal persons who are non-State but also state institutions undergo mandatory audits and public audits? So, on the one hand, in principle, the publicity of public institutions is not guaranteed if we don't have a public audit, and on the other hand, we're actually comparing ourselves to countries where there is no transparent system of public authorities in the use of funds. And in this sense there are many contradictions when international institutions come to us, they have mandatory audits, and they are amazed: “And how is it that your state and non-state institutions do not have such practices?” We're like the Third World State coming out. Let's talk about this, because this is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u57	First. The President does not propose to make public the financial reporting of state-owned enterprises. That's the first one. Second. That is, the financial reporting of 100 per cent of public enterprises will not only be officially made public but is also subject to mandatory audit. Enterprises, I repeat, enterprises. He only suggested that persons who were subject to mandatory audit of the institution and organization should be excluded from the list. This time. Second. The financial reporting of these institutions and organizations is subject to mandatory press release. That's two. I mean, it's not a secret, it's closed, it's published in the press. That's two. And, uh, third. There are public authorities monitoring these institutions, such as the KRW, such as the Rahuunkova Chamber. That's three. And the last. You are absolutely right that the audit system in Ukraine is not yet perfect and is not fully in line with international practice. For example, the accounting standards in Ukraine do not conform to international accounting standards abroad. But we must strive to do so and move gradually there. But they're not ready yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u58	Thank you. There are no more questions. And I could say to Sergey Miroshnichenko, that's where, abroad, government institutions are doing, you know, the purposeless use of funds, the audit is being implemented. And we're fine with that. So, we have the House of Accounts, its structures in place, the KLA, and other control organs that check and ensure order. All right, have a seat, please. The President's proposal is set out in only one paragraph and that is to say, once again, I continue to answer the question of the People's Peacekeeper's Deputy, which may even create temptation in some of the audience's forms in an unearmarked way to use the budget directly. So it's obvious that a presidential warning like this is legitimate at this point. So I would like to ask, let's support the President, vote on the draft law with his remarks so that he can act, please, and the Auditor's Chamber has functioned accordingly. Please. Here comes the vote. [[17:04:29]] For 353 353 people's deputies voted in favour. So the law is finally passed and it's going to work. I also announce to you the proposal of the Agro-industry Committee to remove today's issue of the system of engineering and technical security of the Ukrainian agro-industry complex from the President's proposals and move it to a slightly later date in view of the need for further alignment of the provisions of the Law with the draft State Budget. It's obviously about the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals that the agricultural machinery sector should somehow be set aside, dismembered and promoted. And also to settle the issue of agricultural lysing. So let's just reconcile these positions with the budget, and then we're going to adopt this law to make it work. Is there no objection? The next question is being considered. Ukraine Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws to Prevent the Use of Counterfeit Pesticides and Agrochemicals, with Presidential Proposals of 07.04. In 2006 Reported by Minister of Agriculture Yuri Melnik. Please, Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u59	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! On 16 March 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of the Use of Counterfeit Pesticides and Agrochemicals, with the aim of increasing responsibility for the use of counterfeit pesticides and agrochemicals. Yet, with all its importance, the law was not signed by the President for such reasons. Article 2, paragraph 1, of Section 1 of the Law wrongly proposed paragraph 2 of Part 1 of Article 11 of the Law on Plant Protection of Ukraine to publish an editorial whereby the specialized executive authorities in the field of plant protection are the head of the National Plant Protection Inspectorate, its substitutes, and all experts who are at the same time state plant protection inspectors. In doing so, it was ruled out that the authorities of the executive branch in the field of plant protection were not specifically authorized. They got rid of that status. And this is the National Plant Protection Inspectorate, the State Plant Protection Inspectorate of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts and areas. Under such circumstances, with the law in force, the authorities of the executive branch in the field of plant protection became officials and officials, not the appropriate authorities of the executive branch. With a view to avoiding such a situation, the President of Ukraine proposes paragraph 1 of article 2 of section 1 of the Act to make such an editorial statement, in article 11 of paragraph 2 of Part 1 as follows: “The Chief of State Plant Protection Inspectors at the same time are the Chief State Inspector of Plant Protection of Ukraine, his Deputys of the National Plant Protection Inspectorate of Ukraine, and all experts are the National Plant Protection Inspectors, who are the main State Inspectors of the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act. In the first sentence of the second part and in the second part of the word “station”, replace “stations” with “inspections”, “inspections”. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, which resolve all differences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u60	You've obviously noticed that this is about, let's say, editorial improvements in the law, providing legal technology in its application. So I can see, and there are no questions, because everyone agrees. Yuri Fedorovich, take your seats. What the committee thinks about this is that Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk may or may not report if the position coincides. He's got it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u61	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the committee supports the proposal now made by the Minister and President of Ukraine. And in fact, our decision will allow us to improve the action of the Law on Pesticides, Agrochemicals and Plant Protection. The point is that if we have 19,000 tons of agrochemicals in the market and it goes to almost half a billion dollars, it's a serious market. But today we don't have control functions, and we don't have an organization that controls not only the introduction technology, but the quality of these pesticides. This law we entrust and trust with former stations, now we turn into inspections, government officials who will carry out these measures. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u62	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u63	That's one and a half thousand men per state. They may not be able to do so to the best of their ability, but we will now, the executive, improve this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u64	No more questions, right? Then, please, have a seat. There seems to be no need to discuss the matter. There is a proposal to support the draft law as amended by the President. Please, who's behind this, please make up your mind. So the law is about voting. Please. [[17:10:20]] For 380 The law is passed. A draft of the Children's Nutrition Act with the President's proposals since March 21st is under consideration. Report to Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly state what benefits and preferences we have today, which means that children under the age of 3 and families are appropriate. To date, children have the right to free food supplies only for the first and second years of life from underprivileged families — that is, the principle issue. The second question is that they have children who live in radioactive contaminated areas and have the status of victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, according to the Ukrainian Act on Status, Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, parents of children who are victims of the Chernobyl disaster may, as they wish, receive financial compensation for the average cost of food. At the same time, according to the legislation in force, low-income families, including those living in guaranteed voluntary evictions, as well as in the area of enhanced radiological control, are provided with state aid, the extent of which is determined from the level of subsistence allowance per family. At the same time, if this family is involved, there are children in the family, and this size increases by 10% for each child. And if there is, the parents are disabled in the first and second groups, the cost of living is increasing by 20%. And there's also a number of social assistance systems that relate to child support up to the age of 3. The minimum amount of assistance for the uninsured is currently 90 dollars, the maximum depends on family income and limits 50 percent of the living minimum and amounts to 209 dollars. In addition, the State is helping with the birth of a baby of 8.5,000 dollars. At the same time, there are also tax benefits. According to the Law on Taxes for Added Costs and Income Taxes, domestic enterprises for the supply and manufacture of child - food products receive tax benefits. During the year, such benefits amount to about 2.5 million dollars. In addition, the State Budget provides for annual financial support for production and animal production, which allocates public subsidies to farmers for the production of environmentally sound milk for the production of special foods for children. This is the target of 6 million dollars in 2006. In addition, the 2006 state budget for compensation for families with children and the cost of eating free of charge for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster allocates some 345 million dollars. That is, there is adequate assistance in the State for such categories of people. Second, Ukraine's Children's Nutrition Act, adopted by the Supreme Council, provides for an increase in the number of children who are provided with child support. That is to say, it is proposed to provide free child feeding for all infants, as well as children of early age, who not only have the status of Chaes victims, but who live and are born in areas polluted by the Chernobyl disaster. It is estimated that the total additional expenditure from the State budget for the provision of rule 4 of this law is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be about 800 million dollars per year. And this applies to about 430,000 additional children. Contrary to the requirements of article 27 of the Code of Budget, this bill or the law does not determine the sources of expenditure, and it should be effective in accordance with article 27. So we need to somehow address the financing of this law. The President's proposals propose a set law with corresponding texts that provide the right to free child feeding only for children of the first and second years of life from low-income families, as well as for infants and children of the early age affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u66	Thank you. I think I understand everything the reporter and the president are offering, because he's speaking for him. No questions? Please take your seats. The committee can be sure of that. Now I'm going to tell who's offering it. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry, if you have a wish, please. I want to say, while it goes to the rostrum, the law itself is very valuable, it's useful, because it deals with a lot of issues that guarantee the State's release of baby food and guarantees to children of small ages, newborns in particular. But here's a clarification about one category where the benefits are created. So please listen to Tetjana Dmitrovna’s words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u67	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. The Committee considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Child Nutrition Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 February 2006. The Act provides for the provision of free child nutrition products for all infants of the first year of life, as well as for children of two and three years of age from poor families and families living in the territories affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The President of Ukraine proposes to narrow the scope of the law only until children from poor families and families who live in the territories affected by the Chernobyl disaster are provided. Aware of the need to reduce the burden on the budget next year, and bearing in mind the possibility of maintaining the social orientation of public policy, the Committee decided to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and invited the Supreme Council to enact the Children's Nutrition Act as amended, taking into account the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u68	Thank you for the thorough report. Please have a seat. In the meantime, I'll talk about the procedure. Since there is a partial amendment of the President, the amendment itself needs to be voted on, and then we will vote on the law. So I'm voting on the President's proposal to amend one of the articles of this law. Please vote. [[17:18:30.]] For 330. This amendment is supported by 330 votes. That's why I'm putting in a draft law with the president's amendment. Please. [[17:18:50]] For 335 The law is passed with the clarifications that the President has sent us. The Committee on Education and Science proposes to refer to the issue later, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine, in order to reconcile certain positions with ministries, the Pension Fund and so on. That's why I'm considering it. With your consent, we are removing this issue from our consideration today, bearing in mind that it will be considered soon. A draft law on State regulation of technology transfer activities is under consideration with proposals from the President. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Rybak Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u69	Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the government is considering the importance of the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 21 February 2006 by the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities, which was signed by the President of Ukraine. Article 22 of the Act provides that the transfer of technology, which is carried out in accordance with the priority directions of the innovation activities of the state-level public, is subject to a targeted subsidy of the amount of tax on the income of enterprises derived from the introduction of the relevant technologies and the amount of import duties accrued under the customs legislation of Ukraine, when imported into Ukraine for the implementation of projects for the transfer of technology, equipment, equipment and equipment, as well as materials not produced in Ukraine. On that date, the law went into effect, apart from its separate articles, including article 22, of which I emphasized the date of its publication. This did not meet the requirements of part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, under which the laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of the income portion of the budgets should be officially published by August 15, which precedes the planned year. Otherwise, the rules of the relevant laws affecting the formation of the income part of the budgets are applied not earlier than the start of the budget period of the next planned period. In view of the information provided by the President of Ukraine, it is proposed that the date of entry into force of article 22 of the Ukrainian Law “On State regulation of technology transfer activities should be determined on the first of January 2007, in relation to which, in paragraph one of chapter six, the Final Provisions of the Law of Words and Figures, “and Article 20, which takes effect from the first of January 2007,” should be replaced by the words and figures “and articles 20-22, which take effect from the first of January 2007”. Also in order to increase the monitoring of expenditure and budget balance, we ask that the first paragraph of Article 22 be completed after the words ‘in order’, the words ‘the scales’. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u70	I'm going to ask you now, please, I just wanted to ask you too. Of course, it is necessary to enact such laws with the amendment of the President, because this should be brought into line with the Budget Resolution, with the Budget Code, sorry. And there are the Final Provisions, which provide for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to draft laws that are now in line with this law. On other legal instruments, on the review of the annulment by the executive authorities of legislation they have adopted, which is contrary to this law and so on. As of January 1, all the articles foretold here are introduced. Are you able to prepare all these things for them to pass through parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u71	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Now in the state budget project, we provide adequate financial support to investment projects. So we agree with those suggestions, and we ask them to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u72	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi would like to ask, please. And you want to? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u73	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Sergey Alexanderovich! I'm the National MP of Ukraine and I'm the 4th vocation, and when this bill was adopted, when it was considered there was one such detail. And I'm sorry, I want to make it clear to myself, and for the people in our science field who are waiting for the answer to that question. That's the way it is, if it's for the National Academy of Sciences. Please tell me, duty, duty, and will it take place in the event of Ukraine being driven by equipment that Ukraine does not produce?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u74	Thank you for asking. It is in this law that these financial preferences, they only support goods that are not produced in Ukraine. This financial support will also be provided in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u75	So this is true of the Academy of Sciences, too, right? Please, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u76	Thank you. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter! I don't have the simplest question that this might seem like at first sight. The bill uses the term “transfer”. Please tell me if this word is correct in English. For example. The Act on the National Culture of France, and similar laws are in every country that respects itself, so this law provides for very serious fines if words of foreign origin are used, but in its own language there are equivalent. What have we done? And what we did was that in the 1930s, they copied Ukrainian dictionaries to get our language closer to Russian, and now they're English to bring it closer to Europe. Do you think this practice is normal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u77	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that, in my report, I was preparing for economic justification for this law, but these words that you're referring to are in other legislations in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u78	Please explain to the author what a transfer is, so that he can understand and translate it into English. Tell him what it means.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u79	Transfer is a revaluation from one institution to another.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u80	I'll help you answer that question. There is no “parliament” in Ukrainian either, but it is used everywhere. And if you go back 150 years, you didn't have that word, and now it is and everybody knows what it is. Please. Pick up the explanatory dictionary that now contains 255,000 words, published in Irpin, and there is an explanation of the exact meaning of that word. Please. Yes, yes, words of foreign-speaking origin. That's right. Thank you, take your seats. And I think the committee agrees with this proposal, because we will listen to the opinion of Polodimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I would just like to say very briefly that this law has indeed been approved by the previous composition of the Supreme Council. And as the chairman said today, it's rereading. We can only discuss the President's proposal, which is already being discussed in the audience today. This is about article 22. So I will report to the Committee on Education and Science that the committee in the debate and in such a thorough analysis decided to support this proposal by the President of Ukraine. Although I am expressing my own opinion in this case, which was the unanimous opinion of the committee, and here I have interpreted this, I have interpreted the view of the President today as the deputy minister, that unfortunately there is only a formal pretext for the President, a formal excuse that does not allow subsidies to be made in this area. Indeed, this law, although it is being considered today at the end of the plenary session, that is, always as science and education and culture we have in the final principle, but it is the only one in Ukraine today that allows us to determine the legal and economic, organizational and financial principles of state regulation in the field of technology transfer. There was no such law. And it was such a legal hole, a vacuum in Ukrainian legislation. So this law was defined by the President as urgent. And indeed, the introduction of this law will enable the State to create an appropriate legislative base and adopt a package of legislation aimed at the implementation of regulations. I personally welcome as head of the intellectual property subcommittee both on behalf of many scientists and those involved in technology and in technology transfer, and I welcome the adoption of this law and this amendment. But it's better to have this amendment, the President, than to have no law at all. That is why I propose to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u82	Thank you. There's no objection, I see, to the MPs. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u83	Or is there a question? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u84	But it's not. None. It's my right to ask questions. And you will answer. Please. Please sign up for anyone who wants to. And I suggest you don't take notes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u85	Well, I see two questions, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u86	Three minutes to ask, please. It's Taran who's about to sign up. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u87	You know, you have so well praised this Technology Transfer Act, that I wanted to ask you, and the technologies for counterfeiting in the elections here also fall under this transfer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u88	Well, you have the meaning of this law and this is another area, but when, using your question, it has a direct relation to it, because there is, as you well know, the Constitution, 54 articles of the Constitution, which guarantee the protection of intellectual property and which guarantees various kinds of intellectual activity. So let's say this is an example. Transfer is indeed a French 'transmission'. And that doesn't matter if you borrow that word. Unfortunately, borrowing, plagiarism, and falsifications do exist and violate this article of the Constitution. This is a classic vivid example of this -- this is yesterday's 2521, 25-1 project, which, in my opinion, is a direct violation of this article, from the point of view of common standards for the protection of intellectual property and articles of the Constitution, is a direct violation of this article, a direct plagiarism. I'm not calling the author, I'm just saying, it's a typical theft, it's identical texts, it's the same texts that bragged about in this room. That's why it's a nonsensus for parliaments in all countries. This is from the point of view of this law and from the point of view of the 54th article of the Constitution. I'd say I was surprised that we started our work in the Supreme Council in September with political plagiarism.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u89	I'm asking, we, let's specifically answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u90	I answered the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u91	He was asking a different question. And the answer was simply that the question of technology transfer, the study of election falsification technologies is regulated by the Criminal Code, clearly. So please take your seat because it's been three minutes. And there's another question Mother's asking, I'm sorry. It's not gonna happen to you anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u92	I want to say a few words from the rostrum later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u93	Please. From the rostrum? No, no, you ask the question. You signed up for the question, Vitaly, so please,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u94	I can thank him so that I don't waste my time, and I'll ask him to give me one minute of speaking in the hall on the procedure of adopting these laws, because I know what's going to happen after that, if we adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u95	Please take the floor before the vote. School, what's he gonna say? Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u96	Thank you. I want to say the word to Taran, he hasn't been able to speak. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u97	Please, Taran is speaking. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u98	Alexander Alexanderovich, if you pull yourself away from state affairs and find a minute, we'll go to my house and give you a present, I'll show you the dictionaries of Ukrainian Grinchenka, Pilinski, Vergana, the interpreter of Sum and so on, and you'll turn around and you won't find the word “transfer”, “mondial” or “mundial”, I don't know what it's called, you'll see more if you're protecting it. I mean, we have to keep the Ukrainian language in Parliament first and foremost. And you, as a person who's not indifferent to the word, should react to it, let's say, yes, sorry, without being completely humorous.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u99	Thank you for the invitation. I'll come home, but for a different purpose to you, because I have the same vocabulary in the same amount. But please, if you have doubts about this, we will discuss it separately. But he made that point. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Mother's word has motives, please. Just please don't flip the view of the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u100	Mother, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine”. Alexander Alexander, and there are MPs, I want to tell you that we are adopting very important laws and that we need them very much. But I can give an example of the investment activity of the law, Alexandre Alexandrovich. If someone didn't want to introduce him from the ministers, they'd always find a reason. It's time to write it down, though, from the first law. It was time to ask what the government had done. I've been working with the government for six months, writing hundreds of letters. There is nowhere to get the truth. When Minniest has explained that it is necessary to help the enterprise, then he writes, meaning that Jehorov is already Prime Minister today to give the Prime Minister. Such transfers take almost a year. And the equipment in a million euros stands in Borispol and the equipment that is a hundred times higher than what we have today. It's not chicken or anything, it's equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u101	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u102	This causes such indignation in all factories. And if we're talking about this technology transfer today, we have to determine and at least record once that when the government comes, it has to answer whether or not it has introduced these documents, because everything else is going to be like that for innovation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u103	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich, for your line. But the same is true of other governments, and this government has not yet done so. So let us hope that he will be governed by the law. And whoever violates this law is the standards, by the way, that provide for responsibility for breaking the law. But in this case, I'm just putting in a bill with the president's comments. Please support him. Please. [[17:36:11]] For 399 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm making an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” and article 59 of the Supreme Council Regulations, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bičkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, into the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine”. Thank you. A draft law is under consideration, a more faithful Ukrainian law on the amendment of article five of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime for the activities of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the sectoral Academy of Sciences and the status of their property complex, with proposals from the President. On the rostrum, Ribak Sergey Alexanderovich is deputy minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! In March 2006, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex, and signed by the President of Ukraine. The law provides for the addition of article 5 of the current law to part 8 of which institutions, organizations and enterprises that are in the knowledge of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and of the Academy of Sciences are self - managed by incomes and other incomes derived from the provision of paid services by law. This includes the right to open current and deposit accounts in banks and to store funds in these accounts. Costs derived from the provision of legal services cannot be eliminated in the income of the State or local budgets. The listed institutions, organizations and enterprises have the right to direct the costs derived from the provision of services to the reconstruction and capital building of basic funds and socio-economic facilities, the development of a socio-economic base and the social support of scientific workers. In this regard, it should be noted that there are budgetary institutions among the institutions and organizations that are in the knowledge of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and of the State Industrial Academy of Sciences. In accordance with article 29, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the income of the Ukrainian State Budget includes the income from salaries for services provided by budgetary institutions that are held at the expense of the State Budget. In recent years, the State Budget laws have determined the sources of the creation of a special State Budget Fund in part of the revenue, including the scientific institutions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the sectoral academics, which are funded by the State Budget, including the renting of property from the National Academy of Sciences and Sectoral Academy of Sciences and 50 per cent of the rent of other assets that are held at the expense of the State Budget. Therefore, the introduction of the above changes to the law that has been signed will result in a reduction in the income of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. In addition, according to article 48 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the treasury form of the Ukrainian State Budget is applied, which provides for the execution by the State Treasury of operations with the state budget, the accounting and cassation of budget managers. Then the provisions of the law under consideration concerning the granting to institutions and organizations that are in the knowledge of the National Academy of Sciences and other State Academys of Sciences, the right to self-governance of income and other income derived from the provision of paid services, including the opening of current and deposit accounts in banks' institutions and the keeping of funds in these accounts, these proposals do not correspond to the stated provision of the Ukrainian Budget Code. It is also necessary to warn and take into account what, with the acquisition, the possible validity of this law, the granting to budgetary institutions and organizations that are non-profitable under the law of rights will mean that they will be deprived of the status of non-profits, and this will in turn result in the loss of the benefits they have today. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes the Act “On the Amendment to Article Five of the Law on the Specificities of the Right-wing Regime of the National Academy of Sciences, the Branch Academy of Sciences and the Status of Their Property Complex” to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u105	Thank you. I see there are no questions. At least the committee's opinion is different. There are questions, I see, about a few deputies. Please sign up for three minutes. Please. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u106	Please pass on the word to Onitchku Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u107	Mikola Vasilovich, please, Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u108	Dear reporter, we know very well that the institutions of the Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences in particular, are budgetary institutions and are funded by the State Budget. At the same time, we also know that these costs are catastrophically inadequate when it comes not only to their own scientific research and to the provision of modern research and engineering equipment, but also to their current repairs and capital repairs and so forth. In this regard, please tell us whether the President has studied or the Cabinet of Ministers, we understand well how the observations are being prepared, the situation of full budgeting for the Academy of Sciences? Because the arguments that you have cited are correct because of the fact that if the Academy of Sciences were to operate on a per cent basis, all those costs, the expense articles that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u109	Thank you for asking. We are constantly in control of this situation with the provision of scientific activities. And by the way, the law that has just been passed is also going to provide and support scientific activities in Ukraine. But this is about something else, about the fact that scientific institutions as budgetary institutions have to have their own resources in the State budget so that the state can control the spending of these funds in full and purposeful terms. So a little bit of your question lies in another plane. And in that bill, which will be submitted to you for consideration, I mean the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, these positions that you are underlining have certainly found reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u110	Please, Gunner, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u111	Dear Sergey Alexanderovich, the Science Academy system includes institutions and organizations, enterprises that are either completely budgeted or partially funded. First question: Is the President's amendment prepared by the Ministry of Finance extending to them? And the second question is, will these costs that will go through the special budget fund remain at the disposal of the Academy of Sciences, can they be allocated for other purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u112	Thank you for your attention. I'll start with a second question. Of course, these funds that are given to scientific institutions, they stay in a special fund and they have the right, only they have the right, to spend these funds. These costs, despite the end of the budget period, remain at the disposal of these budgetary institutions. As far as accounting institutions are concerned, they are not institutions that are kept at the expense of the State budget, that is, they are doing their job and they are doing so now and will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u113	Okay. Have a seat, please. The tooth of Mikhail Vasilovich from the committee. Your opinion on this matter. More correctly, the committee's opinion on this point is what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u114	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Science and Education considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine on article 5 of the Law on the Legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences and Industrial Academy and the status of their property complex and decided not to accept the President's proposal to reject this law. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and to send a law for further work. The Committee believes that the law is designed to strengthen the activities of scientific institutions and institutions of academic science on the exploitation of their scientific achievements in the national economy and will contribute to the development of their material and technical base and socio-economic facilities, and to the improvement of the social status of scientific workers. If we leave this right to the National Academy, and they do the national branch, and they don't get a penny of money over the last 15 years for investment, for hardware, for jets, for chemicals, and we want to move science at the modern level on obsolete equipment, without having a penny of money for it, and we want to take away the scientific institutions of the Academy and these rights, you know what we're going to do with our science. That's why the committee, and I'm asking you to back up the committee's decision and send a bill to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u115	Thank you. The questions, I see, are not. Yeah? Tomenko has a question. Please give him your word. Wait, wait, it's an interesting topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u116	Mikhail Vasilovich, I support the idea and approach of the committee that there are two ways to go: either to support the author of Deputy Doroguntsov and to overcome the veto or to seek a compromise and to disagree with the President's approach to rejection. The only thing you've been thinking about is, let's say the editorial that the President is rejecting is clarifying, because there's actually a potential abuse in the area of operational management and the operational use of property. Let's say we write very clearly that these costs go to, for example, an innovation fund there, scientific research and, let's say, repair the premises there and so on. For an exclusive list of articles for which the Academy of Sciences or Institutions could use these funds that they receive from the operational management of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u117	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, that's exactly how we want to work out this bill to get the President to agree, and we've supported everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u118	Thank you. Another scholar, Peter Melnik, asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u119	Dear Mikhaylo Vasilovich, I fully support the position of the committee and absolutely disagree with the position of the Ministry of Finance. It's totally sterling the initiative of the rectors of colleges, let's say. This should spread what the National Academy of Sciences has these features, and to the U.S. Departments. One earns 10 million, the other zero, sits napping. The other one. Look at how many dormitories you've drawn, the property from the Ukrainian universities. If it were not, this status would not have happened. So it's a completely anti-State proposal to get the National Academy of Sciences out of these things. There is no need to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u120	I think your exact comments are correct, and the committee will take them into account when working on them. It really is. To this day, what is the state of our science and education?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u121	Please, have a seat. It's very encouraging, though, to have the same position as a reporter and a deputy. However, by procedure, I must make the President's proposal to reject this project. So make up your mind, please. There's a vote coming. [[17:49:08]] For-46 It's just out of respect for the President, they realize they don't have to vote for it, but it was completely understandable here. But everyone wants to work on this project because it's about scientific institutions that have to have some perspective. Therefore, the committee's proposal to refer this law to the re-examination. Please identify yourself. [[17:49:46]] For 398 For - 398 people’s deputies voted, but I would like to request a committee to expedite the preparation of this document, please. And there's a draft law on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, with proposals from the President. Please make these suggestions on August 15. He reports Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, this bill was discussed on July 26, 2006, to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. I would like to briefly remind the Ukrainian people of the problem involved in this bill. You know that the law itself was enacted in 1993 and it was stated in this law that free of charge repairs were granted to war invalids and to persons who were like them who lived in their own homes. It was only then that there were virtually no disabled people living in private apartments, since there was not yet this stage of privatization of apartments. At present, most war invalids and those like them live in privatized apartments, and it is in fact the norm that regulates the requirements of articles 21 and 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine in order to ensure that equal rights and equal opportunities are equal to those of war. So the problem is known. Our ministry worked with factions of Ukrainian national deputies. We know the real mood, and we know that this problem needs to be addressed. And I would like to ask, Your Honor Alexander Alexanderovich, to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine, but at the same time I have a request not to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. More than that, we worked with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on pensioners and disabled persons. We've been working with veteran organizations, and we've practically got a formula and an editor of this article today so that we can settle this issue even at this start-up stage. I would still like to support, however, if the President's proposal is not voted on to support this bill to be submitted to the Supreme Council Committee, we have practically already agreed on the formula of this article. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u123	Thank you, no questions, I see. Cibenko will report from the committee on this matter, Peter Stepanovich, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Michaelo Mikolaiovich really put the point of the problem, and it comes down to the fact that the disabled of the Great Homeland War, depending on where they live, is on equal terms. Because sometimes a war invalid turns, calls the committee and says, explain to me the difference, which is, let's say, in the private sector, he has a right, and I don't have one. So in fact, the law was meant to eliminate this disagreement, that is to say, to clarify and extend this right of disabled persons of the Great Homeland War. The committee has twice considered this problem, and he has actually been willing to make some compromise decisions, but, unfortunately, today there is no such possibility under the procedure set out in the Rules. The only thing I can't agree with Michael Mikolaiovich is his call to accept the President's position, which is what I can't agree with, because the President's proposal is to repeal this law. So the problem remains. That's why I'm going to the Supreme Council Hall, to you, honourable colleagues, with a proposal not to support the President's proposal to repeal this law, and then to follow through, if we can overcome the veto, it'll be the Supreme Council's decision, if the veto is not over, the committee is ready to work on this problem. Indeed, we have an agreed position on this issue with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u125	Klukkowski asks because besides him and Onichuk, no one wants to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u126	Thank you very much. Yuri Klukkowski, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council. The faction of our Ukraine. I want to ask the honourable reporter, I understand that we can expect, then work on some new bills to make. To be honest, I don't think it's going to bother the President any more how the government will implement this law, if you can overcome the veto. That's, in fact, about 4 billion dollars from the budget for next year. So if the anti-crisis coalition needs to defeat the President's veto, for God's sake, I think the Minister of Social Work has offered a very reasonable option. And I don't understand why I don't agree with him. Send today, like we did with the previous law, send it to the committee for further work, find a reasonable formula that sets up all sides. Because I agree that there is a problem and then accept it. Not just to get the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u127	There is a procedure for reviewing documents that have been submitted to the President's remarks and that is why the language is that we are now, and if you want to be "in the blades" of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u128	Okay, Onichuku Mikola Vasilovich, asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u129	Dear Peter Stepanovich! You know, the defining trait, I'd say, is that the state's tendency to solve the problem of benefits is to monetaryize the benefits. So the definition of the absolute amount of cash that a warlord or a war veteran uses for his own reasons. The proposed editor indicates that the owner’s home is being renovated. But the house may consist of a small house that will cost 1,000 dollars to repair and may cost 50,000 dollars to repair. Shouldn't we consider what we would have if we wanted to do this service, predict a certain level of monetary service that might be provided by the State to provide and support. But in such an editorial way, it's really just inadequate to the state of the financial state and to social justice as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u130	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Mikolo Vasilovich. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are not introducing a new norm into the law. This rule on housing, along with the law on the status of veterans of war and guarantees their social protection, has appeared since 1993. We're kind of clarifying and expanding this standard, this is the first time. And second. In fact, there are already all the necessary regulations in the relevant ministry up to the Ministry’s order on how this mechanism should work. So what we're talking about is that we're kind of clarifying and expanding the category of these citizens' technology, it's actually written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u131	Thank you. Have a seat, please. You see two approaches. There is a proposal to support the President and reject the law. The committee says we need to overcome the veto, the ministry and ourselves, committees and deputies say that we need to work on all of these proposals in the logic set out in our Rules. So I'm voting for a motion to reject this law, which is to take into account the President's proposal. Identify yourself. [[17:58:32]] For-41 Why don't we vote against the veto for the second time? Should I vote? Okay, then the President's veto proposal is put to the vote. [[17:58:58]] For-56 That's good. So let's vote, let's put this project to work. Please, option three, please. [[17:59:20]] For 385 I've learned from Parliament's practice in 16 years -- better to vote on laws to redesign proposals. This means that we consider ourselves to be just approachable to our work. Is that different? Unbalanced documents cannot be accepted. I have a right, and you have the opportunity to shorten this right by looking at another project quickly. Because, please, I'm announcing a 15-minute extension. You let me do this. And the point is that let's introduce the honorary title “The People's Teacher of Ukraine” by amending the law. And the word for that is, you have a project on your hands, with a reduced procedure to consider. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote in favour of a reduced procedure of this law. Here comes the vote. In short, you have a block of these documents on your hands. [[18:00:40]] For 216 Who didn't get it? I repeat, it's been going on for 15 minutes. But it's about what you're offered in the list of issues, groups, a series of issues that are being considered for a reduced procedure. The rules require that such a decision be agreed upon, under a reduced procedure. Part of them will be discussed today, part of them will be discussed tomorrow. That's why I'm putting this proposal to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u132	This is article 31 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u133	This is article 31 of the Rules. Please. Well, you just don't get it. They just didn't understand the question. [[18:01:24]] For-360 It's my fault, because I had to explain clearly right away. Okay. We ask two questions about state awards and the Honorary title “The People’s Teacher of Ukraine”. Samylik Catherine reports the Seminal draft of the Act “On Amendments to Ukraine’s Law on Ukrainian State Prizes” on the establishment of the Honorary National Teacher of Ukraine”. I beg you briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u134	Short. You asked me briefly in the morning, and I did. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education is proposing to make changes and I ask that you listen in particular to “Regions”, amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards, including the “National Teacher of Ukraine” award in the list of State Awards. We already have such honorary titles in the list of State rewards. We also propose to introduce this title. I would like to point out that in the past, it was at the parliamentary hearings that the question of science and education that raised the question of the restoration of this title. It was introduced in 1977. But in 1990 it simply fell off the list of these State rewards. You know that what is referred to as the People's Teacher, the People's Artist, the People's Architect, and another national title, I don't remember, is the National Artist of Ukraine, and there is a 40 percent incentive to pay. For Ukraine's budget, this will mean, for example, next year, because from the following year, if we adopt this law, it will mean 11,000 additions to this small number of teachers who will be assigned this honorary title. I think I'm just talking to you all that we're giving. I know that it is being prepared for the Cabinet of Ministers, but there is not yet a change in this law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the 11th article. I think we'll take a quick look at it next week as soon as this law or next week, and we will definitely support it. Today, we ask you to vote in favour of the additions to the 10th article. And I think that's how we're just going to express our human respect to the teacher.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u135	Catherine, you've been convincing and you don't even ask questions. Have a seat, please. What does the Cabinet of Ministers think about this? I'm addressing Minister Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayevich, he's here. By the way, note that the deputy Easy to him is sitting in the right position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u136	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! What Catherine Semenovna offered is absolutely a good offer, and we, in fact, September 30, will be more faithful, October 1st we will celebrate the teacher, and that would be a good gift to this teacher day. I, the only one, would like to support Catherine Seed in the next. On Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers reviewed and approved the changes to the National Peoples Act, which also proposes the title of the National Teacher, but additionally introduce five state bonuses of 100,000 dollars for teachers in the field: higher, medium, vocational, pre-school and so on. So I'd like to say yes in the first reading. We're literally going to make a formal decision tomorrow, because we've already made a decision, and we're going to review and agree on the two laws Monday, and we're going to make the law come to fruition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u137	I think we're listening to the minister's offer. And I'm voting on the draft law in the first reading. A report? Please. We have a report here by Bodnar Olga Borisovna. I'm sorry, I didn't pay attention. Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, a bill was considered yesterday. And this bill proposes, as the reporter said, the appointment of the National Teacher of Ukraine. It is very urgent that this issue is raised today in order to honor the work of teachers on the eve of their professional day. We all know how difficult it is for educators to work. Young people are not interested in working in schools. The government’s decision to suspend state support for young professionals has unfortunately increased the crisis in this area. Thus, the adoption of the law under consideration will be a real step in supporting the teacher of the State. During the discussion at the meeting, members of the committee expressed an opinion on the appointment of the National and other teaching staff, including teachers. The main scientific and expert administration of the apparatus, in its conclusion, also points out that other educators remain outside the scope of the law. At the same time, it is worth reminding us that it is the work of the teacher that is most difficult and important to ensure that all citizens are educated and that individuals are made as individuals. Unfortunately, the law on State rewards provides for the assignment of honor to teachers alone. Therefore, the question of establishing honorary titles for other educators requires further elaboration and justification. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u139	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. I think she was so convincing, you see, her first speech on the floor of Parliament, debut. Let's look at the way we vote or we support this proposal in the first reading. This will mean both the quality of the committee's preparation and the rapporteur. Please put to the vote the adoption in the first reading of this bill. Please. [[18:08:34]] For 397 With motive? Mikola Onichuk wants to make a statement on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u140	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We have just voted on an important bill in the first reading and I think that the committee in the process may, in addition to everything else, consider why we have the title "Deserved Lawyer" as an example, but there is no "National Lawyer", there is the title "Deserved Economist", but there is no "national". Therefore, by fully supporting the introduction of the concept of “Deserved Teacher of Ukraine”, which is in the text, we need to think about whether we should move forward by referring to the title of the people. There is no doubt about what is deserved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m1.u141	Thank you for your input. I think there's an explanation for the committee. We've got a national economist left, then there'll be no economy. Let's not rush into these. And then, correctly pointed out to Adam Ivanovich, the deserved deputy, we will introduce, the national deputy, it will be very difficult at all. So we spent 11 minutes on this question, and I can see it's going to take 13 minutes again for the next question, and I only have 5 minutes left. That's why I'm calling a break until 10:00 tomorrow morning. The evening session is closed.
