ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:01:19]] There are 434 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Now you and I need to consider the issue of the election and the release of judges. Please, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov. We are considering the draft Decree 2623 on the election of judges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. At its meeting on 29 November 2006, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for the election of the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the appeals and the local courts. The committee has supported these submissions and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine choose the judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2623, which is given to you. I read the names of the judges mentioned in the draft ruling. If there's a warning to the candidate, then we remove it from the general list and go back to it separately after voting on candidates that have no reservations, and we take decisions on each individual. Candidates to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, appeals courts are in the guest box and candidates to the local court are on the balcony. When the judge’s name is read, he rises from the scene, and the national deputies ask him questions. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Formerly Ludmila Ivanovna, Bryk Anatoly Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region - Saint John Mikolaiovich, Frantovsk Tetjan Ivanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Kyrovograd district of Franco Victoria Andriyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region, Rubajla Grigori Yakovic; The Court of Appeal of Kharkiv County is Pathov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u3	It's on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u4	By the way, I'm sorry, Mikola Illich; The Court of Appeal of Chernigiv County, Hromec Nadia Stepanovna; The Court of Appeal of Sevastopol - Sundukov, Sundukova Vasil Mihajlovich; Donek's Court of Appeal - Han's Raisa Fedorovna; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal - Like Zha Grigorovna; Kiev’s Court of Appeal, Student Vladimir Ivanovich; The local Lutsky District Court of Volinsk, Valentin Leontijovich; Local Manevicko District Court of Volinsk Region - Kostukevitch Sergio Fedorović; The local Companiyiv District Court of Kirovograd, Kuchmar Sergio Vasilovich; Kirovsky District Court of Kirovgrad - Bershad Oksana Volodymyrovna The local Vishgrad District Court of the Kyiv district of Zarzecik Sergey Mikolaiovich; Local Drodobic District Court of Lviv, Starunski Dmitr Mikolaiovich; Local Strysk City Court of the Lviv Region - Boratkowski Vasil Mironović;
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u5	Borakowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u6	Borakowski, I'm sorry. The local Baltic District Court of Odessa, Ilniecki Kseniya Mikolayevna; the local Poltava District Court of the Gerasimenko region of Mikolayevna; the local District Court of Poltava, Antonov Andrija Anatoliyovich; The local District Court of Cherkas Smolar Andrija Alexandrovich; the local Kulikov district court of the Chernigiv district of Wojciech Alexander Illić; the local Donetsk District Administrative Court of Konichenko Oleg Mikolaiovich; the local Luhansk District Administrative Court of Mesooedov Svetlana Saberzanovna; the local Mikolai District Administrative Court of Wednesday, Alexandr Fedorovich; the local court of the Wallin district of Kravczuk Viktor Oxentiyovich; The local court of the Dnipropetrov district of Petraková Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u7	Peter’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u8	Peter's Valentine's Day; the local court of the Kharkiv district of Zdrovko Ludmila Mikolayovna, Želno Sergija Česlavovic, Lenjak Mikola Ivanovich. The committee is asking for support for this draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, as there were no comments on the election and release of judges during the election of judges, I have good reason to put the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order number 2623 on the election of judges on an open-ended basis. Vote. [[16:08:50]] For 367 Decision taken. Let us welcome those who have been appointed on an untimely basis today. Please consider draft Order 2624 on the release of judges. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u10	At its meeting on November 29, 2006, the High Council of Justice considered the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, appeals and local courts in connection with their application for dismissal and resignation. In their statements, the judges noted that they had written them voluntarily, without outside coercion. The Justice Committee has supported the application of the High Council of Justice and is introducing a corresponding draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges registered at number 2624 and issued to you. Adam Ivanovich, is it necessary to read the draft decree of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u11	I think it's respectable colleagues. No, no. Let's do that. You call who we're releasing and what we're dealing with, because you might be asked if they're not here, which motives and so on. Please name these names.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u12	Adam Ivanovich, all the judges in this ruling, I mean 2624, are in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u13	Okay. Then, dear fellows, I address you. Is there a need to read who we release? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u14	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u15	I will then, with your permission, put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling number 2624 on the release of the judges proposed in this order. Please vote. [[16:11:05]] For 378 Thank you. It's been decided. And order number 2625 on the release of the judge. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u16	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, also at its meeting on November 29, 2006, considered the application of the Supreme Council of Justice for the release of Eusebius from the office of the judge of the local Zaporez district court in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment. The Justice Committee has supported the application of the High Council of Justice and is introducing a corresponding draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of a judge registered at number 2625 and issued to you. Is there a need to read the draft decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u17	Yes, dear fellows, there's one last name. Regrettably, the Supreme Council’s decision to dismiss the judge is to release the judge of the local district court in Zaporozhye district of Euseiev Olga Mikolayovna in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment. Is there a question, Baby? Please, Miniphone Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u18	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, a person who has a conviction in a criminal case needs to be dismissed, but, Sergey Vasilovich, what does your committee do to ensure that such officials do not go to court? So you're doing a copy here, you're going to read it on the list, we're going to confirm it without knowing it, and then we're going to get convictions on criminal cases where bribe judges are being judged. What efforts do you make to avoid such cases? Perhaps it is wise to approach the selection of candidates for judges more closely? Not to run a list to discredit neither the judicial system nor the Supreme Council. So the Supreme Council of Eusei approved the position of judge, with whom should it be asked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u19	The Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine is responsible for the formation of the judiciary in our State. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice is the committee that examines the representations of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court and the head of the Supreme Economic Court. The Committee examines these issues at its meeting and sees whether there are any complaints against a judge. I want to tell you that over the past month and a half, the committee, I stress this, has been rejected and further targeted to avoid moving 23 people into the conference room. The Committee is currently under review, and with regard to Judge Eszewa, the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal of the Dnepropetrov region were still in 2005. The Justice Committee has today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u20	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleague Lazko and all others, the Supreme Council in this case is acting not simply in accordance with the Rules, but according to a special law that we have even passed on the assignment and release of judges. So everyone here is acting within the framework of the law. I am voting on the 2625 ruling on the release of Judge Euseieva. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u21	The Committee requests support. [[16:15:44]] For 371
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u22	Decision taken. With questions related to the election and the release of judges decided, let us again welcome them to whom they have chosen and wish to act in accordance with the laws. We turn to the question of re-examination with the President's proposals for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on taxation, registration number 2481. First Deputy Head of the Secretariat, Yacenouk Arseny Petrovich, please. Prepare the powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine has carefully considered the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Tax Laws and has made appropriate proposals to this Act for your consideration. The language is that the President of Ukraine supports all the constructive proposals made by the government regarding the additional financial resources for the implementation of the 2007 budget. Moreover, there are a number of government initiatives that simplify the tax system for business entities and work in the stock market that regulate the issue of both the payment of emission income and the inclusion of it in the tax facility and define a number of legal instruments that set out the order of advance payment for the income of the joint investment funds. Moreover, the government's very constructive proposals regarding changes in income and natural resources. Thus, all positions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which were aimed at obtaining additional resources in the 2007 budget, are supported by the President of Ukraine. However, the President points out in his proposals that the position expressed by the Government regarding the restoration of free economic zones and priority development areas cannot be supported in the text in which it is proposed. This is a real return to certain manual processes of economic governance and to the actual return to the black holes that existed in the various budgets, including before 2004. So we've done a careful analysis of the effects of free economic zones, which marks the following. That out of 632 investment projects in priority development areas and in free economic zones, only 49 investment projects have been fully implemented. That's only 8 percent of the total amount of these projects. 75 percent of the investments in free economic zones are called domestic investments. The volume of investments does not exceed 7 percent. And it's paradoxical that when the corresponding benefits were cancelled, the amount of investment in the zones in question had increased. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes to remove all items relating to the activities of free economic zones and to transfer them to a separate law. The second question. This is a question that relates to the issue and order of issuance of appropriate bills when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of a particular equipment and commodity value that relates to the payment of the added value tax. This is a very important question, honourable national deputies, to which I would like your attention. The point is that today, under the applicable law of introduction into Ukraine of any commodity value, excluding taxable and those included in the first to twenty-fourth harmonised group, can be carried out under the conditions of issuance in the customs territory of Ukraine of the corresponding ovalised bill. So it's actually about cancelling the VAT payment. Such a proposal, which was put forward in the government bill, meant the following, that it was actually transferred to the manual management regime all the items that could or could not be imported and passed on a bill for imported products at a value added tax. The President of Ukraine proposes to leave a valid order, I stress, to leave the proper order by which the subject of the entrepreneurial activity issues the appropriate bill of lading, and this bill will be extinguished in an orderly manner. The Supreme Council Committee has settled this issue. And paragraph 11.5 is presented in a new edition, which is supported by the President of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the Head of State sent a letter this morning stating that he supported the position of the Committee of the Supreme Council, which was approved at yesterday's session on the edition of paragraph 11.5. The next question is the question of taxing dividend income. The government bill suggested that appropriate individuals should not pay income tax on dividends. That is, we were analyzed and it was found that 70 percent of the dividends received in the country were granted to 1501 persons. Thus, the exemption from an income tax on citizens would be contrary to the constitutional standard for the equality of all subjects and individuals. So we're going to leave a standard where any natural person, regardless of the source of the payment, including dividends, will pay the same tax as any other citizen of Ukraine. With regard to the settlement of this issue, it would probably be appropriate to settle this issue in a separate law, including one that deals with the legalization of income. Next question. It's a question of cultural values. The government bill proposes to exempt the value added tax of cultural values imported by natural persons into the customs territory of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the category of benefits will apply exclusively to the rich population. That's the first question. The second question. If this is about the release from VAT of museums that have already been freed from import of cultural values, it is acceptable. It might even be acceptable if it were imported into private collections. However, as such imports are usually made for resale, the President finds it inappropriate to grant such benefits to rich categories of citizens and asks for their removal. In view of this, the President of Ukraine proposes to vote in favour of an editorial that was expressed by the Committee of the Supreme Council and approved yesterday, and under such conditions the relevant law will be signed. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u24	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, Tachenko. Let's take 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u25	Thank you. I have one simple question. At a 5 percent interest rate on the dividends of the investors, no questions asked. This is not the first time this proposal has been made, it has already been submitted, it has not been accepted. As for the money our citizens have abroad. They're going to return 5 percent of the dividends or not? Is that true of them, or is it just the investors we have in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u26	As for the dividend tax, this applies to any source, I underlined in the answer. So wherever you're from, you have to pay 15 percent for the law. But I think the question here is still in the extra plane: it's actually the cost of Ukrainians abroad. This issue needs to be regulated by a separate law after legalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u27	Please, Terjehoin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u28	Your Honor, I'm very sorry. You can see the reporter. I would like you to make it clear once again from the rostrum that the President of Ukraine supports the drafting of paragraph 11.5 of the VAT Act, which does not allow importers of gas and crude oil to absorb the bill and not pay for the budget. The point is that at the meeting today it became clear that the representatives of the Party of Regions were insisting that the President's veto edition be adopted, which meant damages to the State budget of at least eight billion. In his letter, the President said 10 billion. Please confirm the President's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u29	Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, once again I would like to express my position as Head of State on this issue: This morning, the president of Ukraine signed a letter after he was given a decision by your committee that approved paragraph 11.5 in your editorial. He sent a letter saying that this was the norm and the form of the norm that the President would like to see in the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u30	Omelyan Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u31	Arsenius Petrovich, you have already partly answered this question, but I still want to ask you. Well, middle class abroad doesn't have money and former senior officials, and now, we know that there's billions of deposits abroad. Will they return these interest rates or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u32	In that case, if these deposits are located abroad legally, that is, if a person has received an individual license from the National Bank to open an account outside the customs border of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. If these costs are listed abroad and income is earned as interest on deposits, they are not taxed in Ukraine or abroad. But if this person is licensed, he has invested in a business entity that pays dividends, under such conditions he is taxed on dividends on equal terms. Unless otherwise provided by the relevant international agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u33	Have a seat, please. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u34	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking has carefully considered the objections made by the President regarding the bill. The adopted Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Taxation, and most of them took into account, found an opportunity to take into account. In particular, it has been agreed that we are removing from the text of the bill all of us, I stress, all of us, without exception, the issues relating to the activities of free economic zones, as they are to be regulated by a separate bill, agreed, in an extremely short time, to work out this bill and a two-week term in conjunction with the government and with representatives of the President's Secretariat, to bring an agreed text to the consideration of the Supreme Council. So we found an opportunity to remove, take into account the first amendment made by the President on the activities of free economic zones. Second position. The Committee also found it important to support the President's position on non-targetity so far to reduce the income tax on citizens from 15 per cent to five per cent on dividends paid by Ukrainian resident enterprises, the operators. The president’s amendment was also fully supported. Third position: for the issue of the tax bill for the value added tax. The committee takes a very clear position that taxes should be paid with living money, including at border crossings. Today, the practice of paying our taxes with bills will lead to the fact that all social benefits and wages will also begin to be paid with bills. But by the time the government's debt existed, first of all at the value added tax, the committee had found it possible to offer clear criteria so that it would not depend on or transfer the economy to manual management. These criteria are to introduce, take the primary criterion of the rate of duty at the border crossing according to the customs tariff. Since the logic behind adopting the customs tariff was that the zero rate is applied only to the commodity groups and codes in which the state is interested, we can take this as a basic base by making small exceptions, particularly with regard to oil and gas, because this, according to the State Customs and Government, can lead to substantial losses. In addition, the committee has been able to draft the bill's paragraphs concerning joint investment institutions, tax administration, which will allow the main objective that was set before the bill, i.e. to form a resource base, in order to secure the revenue portion of the 2007 State Budget, and to ensure for the first time that we remove from the substantive part of the draft State Budget Act any tax position. At the same time, we are very grateful to the government and the President's secretariat for the fact that, in fact, these subtitlings were supported by the President's proposals, as evidenced by a letter from the President who came to the Supreme Council today. As a compromise, since the President's proposal for a veto should be the first one, we agreed with the Government and with the First Vice-Prime Minister of Finance of Ukraine and the Secretary of the President. And including, this can be confirmed by the present-day First Deputy Head of the Secretariat, that in the decision that we are taking on the President's proposals, we are entrusting the committee, together with the Government, with the task of processing the amendments and developing and submitting for consideration by the Supreme Council within a two-week period a draft content bill that is proposed to you in a comparative table. At the same time, if this proposal does not get enough votes, we ask that the committee's proposals be put to the vote, and we ask for their support. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u35	Thank you, you don't have to answer, because this is essentially the second reading procedure. Any questions? Wait a minute, take a question, a word. I just want to ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, Alexander Valentinovich, turn the people around a little bit. Please, ask him to come back here. People good, well, listen, there's a colleague on the stand, and you're back not face to face with him, calmly. Vitali Jakovic, Vitali Jakovic, please sit down. I ask attention to the important question and the proposal that Peter Alexiyovich, supported by the Government, is, in my opinion, the most appropriate. So we need to look at the president's amendments, determine them, support them, enable them to work further on the budget, and simultaneously prepare changes before the Law can be passed through the Supreme Council, let's say, in two weeks. I think it's a totally acceptable offer. Got it. Ask two men a word for questions. Please, Peter Stepanovich and Anatoly Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u36	The Communist faction, Zybenko. Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich! In the table that's in front of your eyes, I'm asking you to take it, on page 10, where it's about changes to the value added tax law, item 1144, it's about a zero VAT rate for black metal scrap. But black and colourful metals are bound things. As far as I'm concerned, we're artificially tearing up the black and colored junk here. So my proposal is that after the "black" – and the "colored metals" – be followed. That is, we should view this thing as bound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u37	Dear Peter Stepanovich, I fully share your position, and this is the line I was trying to conduct on the committee. However, the government, when we examined the laws of the Soviets, passed two laws. One law is about black metals, the other law is about colored metals and alloyed metals. What does this have to do with Bill 1144? That at 3 of us today on black metals we are introducing at the government's proposals a zero rate so that we don't pay taxes on added value on exports, on colored metals and alloyed metals, we are now operating a ban that prohibits the export of color metals at all. That's how we put the zero bet. We are simply losing the added value tax on the internal circulation of these goods within Ukraine, not fulfilling the main meaningful part of this VAT non-return rate on exports. That's what the government came out of, and we supported these positions by the committee. But if the WTO law goes into effect where it's allowed, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u38	Right. Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u39	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I'd like to mention one of Murphy's rules the second time this day. It sounds like, "Whatever people are talking about, it's always about money." What difference does it make between what the president filed and what the committee filed? The key difference is in paragraph 11.5, where the committee said that the bill should not be issued when importing crude oil and gas. The government today and the Party of Regions insists that such a removal should not be for one reason, so that the company, sadly known, has received 8 billion, from 8 billion to 10, according to the President, tax preferences. That's why I don't understand, Peter Alexiovich, why you're asking questions about non-admission to committee proposals, and acceptance from such a spat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u40	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u41	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I started by saying that the committee fully shares the position that I expressed, that you supported, to tax, to pay the added value of living money, including when importing oil and gas. You can see the position of the committee in the given table. Unfortunately, however, the changes adopted to the Rules do not allow us to now vote on the committee's proposals. The rules show that we can either endorse the President's proposals or send the prescribed bill to the committee for further work. We can't do it now, not by voice, but now we can make effective decisions. I'm sorry. Because it was possible another year ago. So we proposed, developed and agreed together that the full-scale solution would take into account all of the committee's proposals set out in the comparative table. I'm stressing for the transcript. All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u42	Come on, let the man finish the word. But look who's listening. I ask you again, good people, take your seats. What Is Missing? Vladimir Viktorovich. Victor, take your seats. I'm begging you, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u43	And in order for the decree to have a joint commission with the government, an appropriate bill was drafted with the Secretary of the President and introduced to the Supreme Council. So I would ask once again that in the decision we're going to make, the President's proposals, we clearly record this assignment. Thank you for your attention. This will enable us to resolve the matter raised by the committee and supported by Terhochin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u44	Jebravski begs. Rather, if possible, Peter Alexiyovich will be working on a new project immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u45	Peter Alexiyovich, I would like to emphasize this notion, we have discussed the normal price with you. If the commission of the committee had taken away the concept of a normal price. We've had this idea once before. Then we were able to block that question. Today this definition is repeated, and it will hit hard enough, the notion of a normal price, on the basis of an enterprise. Would it not also be possible to include and develop the concept of a normal price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u46	Thank you very much, Paul Ivanovich. You have really raised the right question. The committee at its meeting considered the appropriate possibility of repealing the relevant principle, but unfortunately it was not included in the President's proposals and the committee did not go beyond the limits outlined in the President's proposals. In that bill, which we're going to be preparing over a two-week period, we're definitely going to go back to the rationale behind the government's proposals for 20% application of the limit at the usual price, because in our view it will create a certain conflict of laws and allow us to abuse this tax administration. Thank you so much for asking. We will certainly take this into account in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u47	Yes, we're going on the proposal, as we've determined, at the President's suggestion. Then except for one-eighth, which one is rejected? Have a seat, please. Sit down, sit down. So I'm voting on the proposal of the first president. Please give my word to Mikoli Yanovich. Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u48	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Government requests you to vote on all the President's proposals for this law as a whole. Thus, the law would be passed and sent to the President in the form in which the President wished to see it. This would deprive him of his ability to veto this law. Therefore, I ask you to immediately vote on all the President's amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u49	I think the offer is clear. Is there no objection? So I'm putting all the President's proposals to vote to support them, and then I'm going to make amendments to this law and to these proposals by the President, and then the committee can work out amendments to this law at the sleep of the MPs' proposals. Please, don't worry. I'm betting on voting on the President's proposal to support them by Parliament. Wait. [[16:42:21]] For 306 Now I'm putting the whole law in line with the President's proposals as a law. Please. Wait, I'll tell you now. [[16:42:41.]] For 270. Decision taken. Now I'm assigning the committee to finalize the amendments to this law, so wait until the law is signed. Let them deal with the proposals to the MPs. It's a procedural assignment. Procedure! Please. You don't have to vote. We give this procedural commission to the committee. Already voted in general. By factions, please announce: The Party of Regions – 181, Block of Timoshenko – 8, Our Ukraine – 27, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Please. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I know you'd rather do all this. That's no way to scream from the place. The rules don't say you can scream from the place. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts is being considered, this is the completed draft of the People's Chamber of Saints. [[concerning the registration of means of transport]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u50	Dear Head, dear colleagues. For your consideration in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 110 of the Rules, members of the Committee on Finance are introducing a bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. This project has already been discussed several times. This option is in line with the Ministry of Finance and the DPA on tax administration and tax settlement with Autodrome representatives, carriers for taxes. And each number was agreed. In accordance with article 11 and the requirements of the World Trade Organization, Ukraine is expected to lift the age restrictions on imports of vehicles. These standards work practically around the world, but if the 8-year-old age of car imports into Ukraine does not change taxes from the owner of vehicles when they were used, the market for new commercial and truck cars in 2007 will even decrease in relation to the significant increase in the import of cars that were used. Otherwise, we will have the experience of neighboring Poland. The loss of production and sales of domestic trucks in Ukraine account for almost 40 percent of the potential volume. In 2007, 13 percent of potential sales for domestic buses can be lost. And what I want to say is that today there are 90,000 people working in the auto industry. This is 10 factories in different fields. This makes up 200,000 people, according to the co-conspirator. So if we don't accept this compensator, we're going to have budget losses and social protests. Another important moment. This tax is paid to local budgets, namely road maintenance. The bill is a positive conclusion of the government. Our scientific expertise recommends that it be accepted on the basis of some observations. At a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking, he was carefully considered and the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. I ask you to support me in the first reading. As for Project 2082-1, colleague of Seminoga, we were unable to look at it on the committee, because the text only came to the committee today. But we will certainly include his suggestions in our second reading. In addition, I guarantee the holding of extended working groups with the participation of national MPs, government specialists and representatives of the Automobile and Transporters, where we will work on the project for the second reading. Thank you. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u51	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, you're in a plenary meeting, so please note what you're doing now? I'm using what doesn't have a broadcast right now. I counted 18 people talking on the phone. Clearly, they consult on the law, right? The groups there, gathered together, the reporter on the rostrum, turned their backs to him. Well, what kind of respect is that? Those governments are terrorizing. Well, look. Take your seats, sit down, the important documents are considered. Mikola Mikolaiovich, go to work. Go to work, please. Come out, why are you walking around the hall? Everybody take your seats. Please take your seats. Take it easy. If you want to ask questions, sign up. Please, five minutes. Kowzel. I didn't see. Is there a kowzel? You? Baby, please. That's your theme.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u52	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexandre Alexandrovich, not just this subject of mine, but all the topics that relate to a better future country. In this case, the bill that we are considering will only make the future worse, namely, the lives of millions of Ukrainian citizens. And I want the Ukrainians to know today that Svetash, the representative of the Party of the Regions, wants to pass a bill in the Supreme Council that increases the tax burden on owners of old cars to buy new cars that we know are behind. We will be delighted to do all we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u53	You see, if you hadn't called me, you would have told the reporter everything. Please, Dmitri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u54	You know, there's nothing to comment on. I can see so much that a respected colleague did not read the first or the second or even the last edition of this law. I would like to advise him to be an expert in a particular field, not everyone at the same time. Everything that's said to be not true, this law doesn't raise any, let's say, existing rates, save all existing benefits for unprotected populations. This law even extends these benefits to citizens to the State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance. Thus, this national MP is misleading our listeners and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u55	Thank you. He accepts that answer. Kuzmenko. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u56	Thank you, Sergey Kuzmenko, faction. The Socialist Party of Ukraine, Zaporozhye. Dear colleague, I have a question for you. I know that there is no broadcast, but I would like everyone in the hall who hears us to be able to communicate to their constituents the true essence of this law, that is, to whom does the situation deteriorate, and to whom does the situation improve? Above all, what does this law provide for Ukraine’s automotive industry?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u57	Thank you for asking. As far as import is concerned. If today's status quo is violated, Ukraine will become a dumpster in Western Europe for cars over eight years. That was already in Poland. We're going to have a loss of gross domestic product, we're going to have a loss on the highway. If we don't, we're going to turn from a country that manufactures or stores cars into a country that just consumes them, not a new country itself. So this could destroy a Ukrainian highway that's just starting to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u58	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u59	Dear colleague, you've tried so hard to convince us to vote in favour of this bill that I admit that you're probably a better specialist here than Lazko. If so, please tell me: why was Kabminu against this bill last time, now in favour? And one more question is, you probably know that most of our voters don't have the opportunity to drive new cars and still buy old ones. What will be their situation: Will they pay after we adopt this bill more for technical inspection of old cars or less? What does he give them? What are we doing to make our people's lives easier today by adopting your bill, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u60	Thank you. As for the first part of the question, the second part of the question. This bill does not apply to the annual payment of taxes to owners of means of transport. So it's both in the tax system and in the normal mode, it's the same thing that exists today, so it doesn't touch that. For today, as to whether or not you can. Today, it is not possible to drive cars older than 8 years of age at all. As for the first one. Remind me, what did you mean? Oh, about why Kabmin didn't support it. In the first reading, the tax administration procedure was imperfectly prescribed. We've written to the Ministry of Finance in a way that makes it more convenient to make this tax, without increasing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u61	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u62	Dear Alexander Alexander! I'm not asking the reporter, but taking the opportunity that there is the first Vice Prime Minister, Finance Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov, I'd like to address you more, Your Honor, Mikola Janovich. Explain, please, I support Mrs. Herman, who asked me the same question. My thought has revealed itself. Why is this bill no longer passed in Parliament? Did Minfin really deny it before? So, Mikola Janovich, can you please tell us this bill we should vote on? Will it not harm our Ukrainians or bring them? Then honestly, what you say now is what we're going to do. But Mr. Holy cannot convince us that this bill is really in favour of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u63	Pavlov Gnatovitch, if you please. Mikola Janović won't answer, because we're looking at the MP's project, and he's here for another reason. So please, come on. If you are interested separately, approach him, and he will explain. Let me ask you a question. Time used. Please take your seats. Yes, are there willing to discuss? Seminoga. I'm sorry, it's written as a co-reporter. Please. Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, National Deputy of the Committee, please. Not from the committee, but from the co-reporter. Report an alternative project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u64	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. This is the third time they've tried to pass the bill. I'm trying to answer the questions that have been asked by the Party of the Regions today. First of all, who needs the bill and who brings it to the citizens of our country. First of all, the bill increases the tax burden on Ukrainian citizens: it introduces a new tax on the registration of cars on first registration. Because it's not the drafters of the bill today, and it's an antisocial bill. The other one. The bill raises prices on cars, cars that were used, and, of course, on new cars. Third. This bill will increase the cost of transportation. Who needs this bill again? Only people who are trying to monopolize the car market in Ukraine today need it. As far as I'm concerned. I report my law and tell you about another. The drafters of the bill refer to the rule that the bill should be adopted in connection with Ukraine’s entry into WTO. I want to deny this argument because today the current law prohibits imports of cars over eight years of age into Ukraine. This standard is in force today and will be in effect for five years after Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Therefore, there is no need to adopt the bill at all. With regard to the alternative bill. I proposed an alternative bill. This bill approves the standard that is in force today, that is, cars that are over eight years old, will register at the prices that are today, cars that are more than eight years old and will be imported into Ukraine, increasing the tax rate when these cars are registered. So we're protecting Ukraine's internal market from importing old cars, and the car prices remain in Ukraine for the day as they are, and that's not going to increase the social tension in our country. Therefore, I propose to reject the bill of my colleague Saints and to support the Bill of Alternatives introduced by the People's MP Seminog. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u65	Thank you. Ask you a question, too. Write down who has the questions. Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u66	Ah, please pass the word to Sergey Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u67	Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u68	Thank you. Please tell me how the Holy Bill protects the Ukrainian car industry, I understand. Explain, please, how is your project protected?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u69	Dear colleague, the Holy Bill does not protect the automotive industry in Ukraine at all, because in fact it is not in Ukraine today. We're taking mostly cars from Russia to Ukraine, cars from Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u70	Can I answer that? If you're talking about that assembly, the car assembly that's going on in Ukraine today with the crevices imported from Russia, it's not car building, it's just from the assembly of foreign cars. So once again, this bill does not apply at all to automobile construction in Ukraine, it refers to the first registration of cars that were used and imported from abroad. This bill raises the tax rate on car registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u71	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u72	Vladimir Yavorowski. The honourable drafter of the bill, the previous author who was on the rostrum, convinced us and Ukraine of that. I don't think there's an increase in car registration taxes. I looked again at my eyes and I didn't believe it, and that's the conclusion of our main scientific and scientific department, which finds that taxes are rising rapidly: from 4 bracelets to 50, depending on the engine's volume, from 4 bracelets to 300 bracelets. Judging from everything, even old cars, foreign, in fact, are technically better than “Giguli”, “Volga” there and ours, meaning the miserable “Slavutic”. So tell me, please, I'm thinking about something else. Even if the Holy Law is adopted, obviously without competition, our carists, prices and our "Slavutic" and the same "Sliguli" and everything else, will they also grow up? So this is going to be a total hit today on, let's say, the average rows of the Ukrainian population. Am I right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u73	I want to confirm that, in fact, car registration prices are increasing by 300-400, multiple points by 500 times. The stress on the car thus increases. This will only lead to an increase in car prices. Both on the car used and on the car are new. And what's more, it's about the cars that are now using the most common population ranges of cars -- "Swings" -- from the fifth to the fourth model, cars with a motor volume of between 1,000 and 1600 cubic centimeters. So again, it's a hit on the middle of the population with the lowest income.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u74	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u75	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions”. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! The pathological lack of fondness of the BUT faction for domestic automobile building was noted by me in the fourth call. Enough to look at the transcript of your personal behavior when we adopted Bill 3677, which gave us a chance to survive domestic automobile construction. If it wasn't for the orange mess, it would be very different now. I have a question for you: please tell me, how did it happen that your alternative bill seems to have an explanatory note to the dot and to the coma equal to the explanatory note of a colleague of Saints? Is that the same law or is that not the law? And the second question is, are you going to explain to the people of Ukraine that it's bad that we're not going to be in Ukraine carrying an old sheet that pollutes the air -- machines over eight years old? Ukraine, what, a dump for Europe of old second-hand cars? What's wrong with what's wrong here? And another thing: don't mislead people, that's what's required in the 11th article of the GAT SOT General Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u76	I agree with you that we have no right to allow Ukraine to dump old cars. So today there is a rule that prohibits the importation of cars over eight years of age into Ukraine. This rule remains in my bill. And Mr. Saintess proposes to increase the registration of cars. The price for registration of cars has been five years. These are cars that are now fully operational, and most Ukrainians use these cars. Thus, again today, this strikes the average consumer. That's the first one. The other one. As for the bill you discussed, which we discussed with you. Unfortunately, today the benefits that were granted to the Autoprom, including the ZAZU, were not used for the real development of the Ukrainian car, and unfortunately today the Zaporeznik is not a competitive car either in the external market or in the internal markets. That's why we've been refusing to accept these benefits. These benefits were used only to collect Mercedes, ash, oak, and so forth. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u77	Have a seat, please. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, please make peace with them from the committee of two authors. What does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u78	According to the committee’s decision, the committee was to report to Dmitry Svašas because the committee was determined to support the bill. But I would like to stress once again the principle of position. Thesis one. This bill has a direct bearing on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Because there is a direct requirement that is placed in bilateral protocols, which provides for the lifting of the import restrictions for more than eight years. So if we don't accept this norm and this position, we don't actually arm the government and the working group to complete the negotiations on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Thesis two. That all bets and standards that worked up to the eight - year - old age of cars that were first imported into Ukraine remain absolutely unchanged. On the contrary, the congregation’s administration is improving. At the same time, after importing a car after eight years, it is true that the first registration alone has significantly increased the standard. But to say that we're increasing it compared to an active car is totally wrong because there's no norm now, because the law prohibits the import of similar cars. Thus, this bill, in the event of its rejection and failure to resolve the problem for eight years, is effectively blocking Ukraine’s entry into WTO. The adoption of this bill actually leaves, well, in fact, a high ban rate, and in that way, we will support the domestic producer, on the other hand, we will solve the problems of Ukraine's entry into WTO. I propose, more specifically, that I announce to the committee that the committee is proposing to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u79	Thank you very much. Have a seat, please. I think the committee was absolutely convincing in this regard. Ask him. Now he's going to explain it to you in more detail. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up for the factions, please. Ask the factions for a word. Please. Easy, please make yourself clear. 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u80	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Why won't our faction vote for this bill? Because the bill proposed by a colleague of Saints is affecting the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens who are underprivileged. I mean, if it was a bill to make these low-income people richer for a little bit, we would vote with both hands, but if this law were passed, the poor would become even poorer because they couldn't, they wouldn't be able to buy new cars. At the same time, when buying old cars, they will pay more money, more money during registration, then an annual transportation congregation, etc. That's why we can't vote for it, because that's how we get the extra money out of the pockets of millions of our citizens. And it's done by lobbyists who will then put this money in their own pockets. As a colleague of Seminog put it, there were automobile benefits, and Conche Zaspa was washed away, and houses were built that no normal person could go to Dniper. I would like to go to Peter Alexiovich Prashenko, who says that this bill, without him, Ukraine will not join the WTO. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, if that is the case, why does this bill not represent the Jacinyuk, who introduced all the laws relating to the WTO? Why, who or did anyone authorize the Saint to present this bill. No, it's not. He does so himself in the midst of certain people who are pursuing their own private interests. Peter Alexiyovich, we know you're always on the lookout for the citizens. But in this case, there's obviously something you didn't figure out on the committee. I therefore urge Parliament not to vote in favour of this bill. Because then you'll go to people and they'll ask you what they're paying for, and whose pocket does that money go into? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u81	I'd like to, uh, ask you a little bit. You've made such a convincing statement that now I know, I have to vote in favour of this law, I have to vote. Kuzmenko Sergei speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u82	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to stop for a few moments. Unlike the previous speaker, I can't think of myself as an expert on all issues universal, as it were, but in car building I'm an expert, I've given him more than 30 years and I have reason to think of myself as an expert on this issue. What I'd like to say is the law that was represented by a fellow saint. First. The absolute lie is that this law makes the situation of the underprivileged. None of the underprivileged people are involved in the import into Ukraine of cars that have been used for more than 8 years of age. That's the first one. The other one. I was happy to see that there were no people in the FACT faction, and there are no people who are very good at this. Because at first, the faction leader called the car company in Zaporozhye, which has more than 20,000 workers. And to whom leading European and world companies have allowed cars with their brand, car workshop, and now the same factions tell us that there is no car building in Ukraine at all. I'd like them to go to the Lviv bus factory, the Kremenchuck truck factory, the Zaporez Automobile plant, and tell the representatives of these companies that there is no car building in Ukraine. At the Melitopol Motor Plant, by the way, and some others. Let them say it. And let them hear what they have to say. Third. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, what was signed by previous governments to join the WTO for automobile construction makes it impossible to afford tariff protection for our automotive industry. So today, we have the only possibility -- technical protection. And this is the law of the Holy One that allows us to move from tariff protection to technical protection. Once again, it does not apply in any case to cars already registered in Ukraine. It doesn't apply. This applies only to those who want to import into Ukraine. And finally. I would like people who talk about such serious things as the automotive industry to know that, in fact, the Zaporeznik has been out of production for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u83	Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Behind him is Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u84	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! So much has been said that I think now those who listen and those who have cars are probably really quite frightened people -- what happens to these cars? First. Let me try to provide reliable information. Whether the law is passed or not, Ukrainian citizens will not change the cost of carrying out technical examinations of their cars regardless of their age. This is the first one, believe me. The other one. Those citizens who have cars now over 8 years of age, when they're reselled in the internal market, there's not going to be an increase in their registration fees. That's two. Again, I stress whether the law will be passed or not. The only thing that's actually being discussed right now is those cars that are not being imported into Ukraine today, which are over 8 years old. The festivities, which are the authors of the bill, say that for these cars it is proposed to install only once imported, substantially increased rates of registration for the first time. And that's true, too. And the truth is, when the factions who object to this law say that the pay is substantially increased. That's true. But today there is a ban on the import of such cars as these. And we have to take down this ban first. This is evident because we will not join the World Organization. But we have a choice. We can go to the old cars, ban on imports that will be removed, not increase their registration fees -- first. That is, using one that is today for cars and new or younger 8 years or to increase. And here's the discussion unfolded essentially around how much to increase this price: 2 times, 3 times, 10 or 100 times? And it is predicted that when the law is approved in the first reading, it is time to have a discussion or increase the price, and if it is increased, how much. So, dear voters, remember that you are in a position of property. In fact, you're only at risk when it comes to determining the wages for cars whose import permit is granted by Parliament over 8 years of age. And I hope that this increase will be irrelevant, and it's about the second reading that we have to have a separate discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u85	Thank you. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich is speaking instead of Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! After a speech by a well-known lawyer, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, I think the essence of this bill was understood by those who stood here and spoke from some faction about something, not knowing what. I want to remind you. I firmly deny that the funds that were supposed to be spent on reinvestment for Ukrainian automobiles were burned somewhere. A complete lie and ignorance. I offer you, Your Honor Anatoly Ivanovich, a discussion with Vasadze Tariel Shakrovitch. He'll tell you where the money went. Moreover, only this rule began to work, and in 2004, Zaporozhye’s car factory began to work in three different ways. Out of 9,000 600 - 21,000 jobs, 386 million dollars of income. After the orange bard 46 million dollars of damage, when they stopped all these benefits, sort of fighting against something. Remember the phrase, “Let’s sink the fat of the oligarchs? ” We've been severely submerged, we've actually put our Ukrainian automobile on the brink of survival. Dear colleagues! There's one point. Alexander Alexanderovich, it would be good if such bills, which affect the income part of the budget, were also tested or expertized on the budget committee, then it would be more clear what this would give us, the budget, that is, what it would give the social sphere? We can't turn, any civilized country in the world is protecting its car market from the mess, from the old, from the useless, we have to protect ourselves. But article 11 of the GAT SOT prohibits restrictions. So there can be no 5 years of transition. Of course, the import ban should be applied in due course. So again. This bill does not and does not apply to old “giggles”, old “moscows”, those cars that older people drive on their own, is not applicable at all, this bill applies to those crafty “moscows” who, under various banners, bring in any junk that pollutes the air. In the end, look where they are, these cars, they end up right in the backyard. They stand, rust and fall apart, and fall apart. That's what this is about. I propose this bill, which has a positive response from the ministries and my positive response to the committee's profile, vote and support. So we're going to become even more civilised in the automobile market in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u87	Thank you very much. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please use the correct phrases here in the rostrum because that institution you mentioned has a color, not orange, but pink. Please. And you've got the colors all mixed up. The colors were confused. So it's... it's... You've got the colors mixed up, I say. This institution always goes in pink, not orange. And you used it here. Please have a seat. That's a first. Secondly, you've clearly noticed that, in conducting the discussion, some, especially those who took part in the rostrum, have realized what an interesting question is being considered. So maybe it's time to spend less time, less time on these issues? Well, clearly, pragmatically, intelligently written project 2082. I put him to the vote in the first reading, please. 2082. [[17:19:47]] For 276 According to factions: 174 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 9, Our Ukraine – 39, Socialists – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u88	Let us go to the section “Other Readings”. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals is under consideration. Registration number 2401-1. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u89	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your attention is on the proposal of the Act on the Export of Black Metals and Waste and Debt. Three amendments were made to the committee in preparation for the second reading. The committee has considered each of them carefully at its meeting and, in fact, without objecting to the amendments that have been tabled, I should point out that the two amendments do not refer to the text of this bill, because the language goes into these amendments before. [[amended by the Seminoga People's Deputy]] On alloyed metals and alloyed metals, they are subject to the next draft legislation on export export duties to scrap metal and black metals, and we recommended that this issue be considered after adoption in the first reading of this bill. And the third amendment of the Seminoga People's Deputy on the transitional procedures for the application of the bill was taken into account by the committee and recommended for support. I remind you once again that this bill is. is included in the list of bills submitted by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers as part of the programme for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. They're solving, on the one hand, the application of the transition period, the introduction of import export duty, which allows for the work of the alien industry. On the other hand, they are fully in line with the international commitment that Ukraine made at the time of Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Once again, there was little change. Most of them. The absolute majority of them are essentially counted or the authors will be able to consider them when considering other bills and the committee unanimously at its meeting recommended to the Supreme Council that it be accepted on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u90	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Only those who have made amendments have the floor. Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u91	Two of my amendments are taken into account, and one of the amendments in the case of alloy steel, if it's passed into a bill for color metals, I'm going to take this amendment out of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u93	Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u94	Adam Ivanovich, I remind you, just in case an amendment is introduced that changes the text adopted in the first reading, it can be discussed by anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u95	If that's what you're talking about, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u96	About that. Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, we agreed on the committee to correct the third amendment. Unfortunately, nothing is fixed. In the third right you have to put the second paragraph first and put it this way: “In the year Ukraine joined the World Organization, import rates have entered into force since the entry into force and are effective until December 31st.” The second paragraph reads: “Export duty rates. in other years, - and beyond the text, - the rates of export duty and so on." And leave the third one. Because if we leave now as it is, the first paragraph and the second paragraph contradict each other essentially. So I'd just like to make an editorial change, like I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, well, we have indeed made the decision to be very careful about the amendments that are made by the vote, but in this case, indeed, the international commitments that Ukraine has made require the introduction of the relevant law immediately after Ukraine’s accession to the WTO. So the proposal made by Terhochin to change the first and second paragraphs with appropriate adjustments is absolutely correct, this is, indeed, the technical regulation of the national MP of Seminoga, which should be taken into account in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u98	Then I put it on vigor: on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine, “O export duty on waste and scrap of black metals”. Registration number 2401-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u99	Please support, the committee supports. We vote for the Soviet bill. [[17:25:58]] For 365
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u100	For 365. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is under consideration. Registration number 2391, second reading. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, before the bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Ukrainian Agriculture, issue 2391, which was accepted as the basis for November 14th and is, of course, fresh in your memory, received 2 proposals - amendments from the National Deputy of Selchenk and the National MP. Knock. Proposals have been made to the final provisions of the bill and relate to the need to take steps to create a level playing field for competition in the market for agricultural production and for a level playing field. More specifically, I would like to remind you that the authors of the proposal are proposing that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within two months of the date of entry into force of the Act, review the rate of import duty on agricultural production with the conditions of entry into WTO contracts for certain types of production with a view to harmonising the system of support for the sector to the conditions and mechanisms of support that operate in the countries of the EU and the member countries of the WTO. So the purpose of this amendment, which the Committee has supported and proposes to support the Supreme Council, is to produce and propose mechanisms to offset the possible negative effects of the accession to the World Trade Organization of Ukraine, to replace them with others, to provide support that is in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization. Thus, the committee supported the noted proposals made by the two national deputies, who had spoken before and discussed November 14 in this session hall, and offered to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u102	Yeah, no one's denying it? Yes, Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Everything seems to be normal here, except for the last amendment that was adopted by paragraph “b”. Look, there's a link to harmonising conditions, supporting mechanisms for the agri-economic sector in EU and WTO countries. Well, first of all, it's wrongly written, it's tautology, because all EU countries are WTO members. And secondly, I'm going to remind you that there is a single agreement under Sot on agriculture. There are no more agreements on this subject. So if you want to make some harmonisation, you have to write, not "in the EU and WTO countries", but to harmonize in accordance with the rules of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, then it will be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u104	Actually, it would be best if you didn't write it the way it is written here, not the way you suggest it, because it's self-explanatory. And in order to clarify and guide the Cabinet of Ministers so that we can stick to it, that's how they formulated it. But I would, for example, agree that, given that the EU is a member of the WTO, we could write it as you say. But the amendment, I'm talking about the amendments that the Committee on agar policy approves of, land relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u105	Thank you. Then we leave the EU, we take the word SOT, we agree with Teriochin's proposal. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Registration number 2391. [[17:30:23]] For 386 The law has been passed. A draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products is under consideration. [[second reading]] Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u106	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law “On the Amendment of the Milk and Milk Products Act” No. 2392-1, adopted on the basis of November 14, was amended four times by the National Deputies. The proposals made by Baranovsky’s deputies, Seminoga, regarding the abandonment of articles 17, 18, 19 in the current law, are not taken into account. I hope you understand why. Because if they are reinstated by articles 17, 18, 19, which are being removed from the very requirement of the WTO, then it is pointless to review this law at all. For the sake of these articles, they are being deleted, and today we are considering this bill. The proposal made by Seminogue, a national deputy, regarding the term of validity of this law is considered. So at its meeting on November 28, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law on milk and milk products, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u107	Thank you. Do the authors whose amendments have been rejected insist? No, it's not. Then I consider the adoption of a second reading and generally as a law amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products, registration number 2392-1. [[17:32:16]] For 390 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar, Registration No. 2394-1, is under consideration. Are you also reporting this one? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u108	Honourable National Deputies, also the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar, No. 22394-1, adopted as a basis on November 14th, received two amendments from the People's Deputy of Costenko regarding changes in articles 1 and 2, which, when considered by the Agrarian Policy Committee, were not taken into account. Why? Because they're only proposing to delete the fourth paragraph of the proposed draft law and leave the 5th. And the 5th language is the "B" quota, which is proposed to be removed, eliminated, because it is also a requirement of the WTO. And if we take these amendments into account, we're also not going to bring the bill into line, that is to say, we're going to support the committee's decision, we're going to adopt the law in the second reading and as a law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u109	Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u110	At some point, Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Please tell the honourable reporter, if we exclude quotas “B” and “C”, what is the meaning of this law in general? Imagine, then, what remains of the nation’s honourable deputies that remain in this law. In this law, the quota “A” remains. What is the “A” quota? What is the “A” quota? It's a quota for domestic supplies, inside the sugar-sparing country for sugar-sparing plants, which is distributed by the public authority according to some of the rules set out there. What are we talking about now? After we have excluded the “B” and “C” quotas relating to external trade, there is no content of this law as such. That's why he, this law, has to be annulled at all as unnecessary for this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u111	Dear colleague, allow me to disagree with you, since this law does not merely deal with the issue of quotas. The question is also the minimum price for sugar beet and on the same quota “A” we are only eliminating the quota “B”. The minimum price of sugar on the bottom limit, the wholesale sugar trade, the state regulation, really, is limiting. boundary size, that is, a series of positions that are currently in place, supported by the Association of Boilers, and so let it not be an extensive law, but it is specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u112	Yes, dear fellows, they exchanged. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar, 2394-1 registration number. [[17:35:51]] For 383 Factions: Region Party – 180, Block Timoshenko – 96, “Our Ukraine” 72, Socialists – 29, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 6. A draft Act establishing a tariff quota for imports into Ukraine of cane sugar is under consideration, registration number 2395-1. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u113	Honourable National Deputies, to the named bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council on November 14th, came six proposals, amendments to the National Deputies. 4 offers are included, 2 offers are rejected. These proposals come down to the terms of imports of raw sugar. The MPs who made their proposals and their amendments propose to write in the law that sugar-cheese imported should only be produced on ethanol. Well, maybe that's not necessary. The legislative committee rejected these amendments. As for the transitional provisions regarding the introduction of the law of January 1, the following year, when we join the WTO, the committee supported the proposal and suggested that the Supreme Council support it. I made a note. The amendment was taken into account by the national deputy Lukyanczuk and the committee with regard to the definition of the term “tariff quota”. The tariff quota in Ukrainian legislation had, in fact, not been used before, and this was taken from international legislation, so officials in the Cabinet of Ministers made a point that the amendment needed some clarification. And then the state-of-the-art duty in international law is replaced by something else, that is, a state-of-the-art duty for the words "traffic and export duty". Thus, we feel that the national deputy Lukyanchuk is also pleased that we have considered the amendment. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u114	Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u115	Sergei Mikolaiovich, we agreed on the committee that the cane that will be processed in Ukrainian factories would go directly to ethanol. I asked questions on the committee, and today the Minister of Economics is sitting. Are you saying that we have an ethanol program? We don't have any alone equipment in Ukraine to make a liter of gasoline out of this ethanol today, do we? Now, Sergey Mikolayovich, listen to me. The economics minister's note says it's going to save jobs. And you know very well that in Ukraine 80 percent of unemployment in agriculture is in the APC! Unemployment. And that's what we're going to do to create unemployment in the APC. You know 80 percent of people in the village don't get paid for years? And if we import and recycle and keep it in place, we'll knock down the price of sugar and reduce jobs. I get it, we're going to work at five factories. They'll work there. But if only we had
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear Omelyan Nikonović, the “Ethanol” programme in Ukraine has been in existence for over five years. It was started at several vineyard factories and at one of the factories in Chernigovishte. But we think, and the committee, I have to find out the committee's decision, not my own, that it will be decided by the Cabinet of Ministers to the extent that other factories are technologically, organizationally ready to convert this amount of raw material into ethanol. Because the law can be written down, but how can it be implemented if the power does not correspond to that amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u117	Please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u118	Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich, I would like to support my colleague. The key position and the danger that farmers have expressed is that this year the level of sugar production in Ukraine exceeds the level of domestic consumption. And we already have the problem of not being able to implement sugar for the farmers, at least at the cost of being self-sustainable. Therefore, the proposal, which was emphasized by a colleague of Paris, particularly the restriction on the use of imported cane sugar exclusively for the production of ethanol, allows the Cabinet of Ministers, the government to develop an appropriate order, to consider it, but now to set appropriate restrictions that will allow our internal market to be protected without discrimination against foreign producers and to comply with the WTO requirements. So I would ask that this amendment be individually put to the vote and supported by the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u119	You're telling the absolute truth, and if the Supreme Council accepts such an amendment, I will be personally satisfied as a national MP. I reported to the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, can you tell me what kind of amendment you're talking about? You tell everyone what you want to do. I wanted some to have a bearing on all sectors of production, then he would say that nothing should be taken by the WTO. That would have been absolutely right. I am voting for acceptance in the second reading and in general. What is the correction? Your amendment, Peter Alexiovich, is not. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u121	I'll try again. There is no amendment to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u122	So all the amendments that you've made here have been made. There's no correction. What do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u124	What's the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u125	The amendment was made by the Barani people’s deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u126	Correction. Okay. Baranowski's amendment is number one rejected. The MPs insist on supporting her. I am voting on Amendment 1 of Baranowski, although please wait, although this is a violation of the Rules, because Baranowski does not exist. You have the right, Peter Alexiyovich, like any other national MP to put to the vote only that amendment that is counted by the committee if you are not the author of the legislative initiative. But which one is rejected, and there is no MP, he doesn't insist, what are you here for? But I'm putting to the vote amendment number one of the national MPs of Baranowski, who has been rejected. Please vote. [[17:43:10]] For-72 I am voting on the second reading and, in general, as a law, on the establishment of a tariff quota. The government, I'm sorry, doesn't care anymore because the government doesn't have any amendments here. Sit down, please. It is placed in second reading and generally, as a law, on the establishment of a tariff quota for imports into Ukraine of cane sugar. Please vote. [[17:43:52]] For 386 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 183, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 99, “Our Ukraine” – 70, socialists – 29, communists – 0, non-fractional – 5. The law is passed. With motive? Five minutes. Sign up, sign up. Please, Samuel. Simonenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u127	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! There is now a meeting of the territorial commission in the city of Kirovograd and records are being heard when representatives of the orange authorities are being accused of taking bribes in connection with the election of the city of Kirovograd. Once again, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the issue that we have considered: the responsibility of law enforcement authorities for order, fair elections and clean hands. A draft proposal for the resignation of the Minister of the Interior was therefore tabled. I believe that this issue should now be addressed and the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers requested his resignation to vote on it, as well as to consider the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u128	Casualty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u129	Thank you. I'd like to point out that we'd have to go to the previous law that we just headed, but there were suggestions that we should reprove a few sugar factories to convert imported sugar-cheese into ethanol. But we've already voted it out, so come back late. I think we're going to figure out some kind of correction in the following. Thank God that it says that it will take effect only after Ukraine has been admitted to the WTO. Now I would like to make sure that I do, Adam Ivanovich, to consider Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek's proposals on the personnel issue, because really today this question has gone beyond the limits of patience and all the gibberish that this person is showing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u130	Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u131	Please pass the word to Kiselev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u132	Please, Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to respect your decisions. On November 15, we decided that two weeks from now we should consider the issue of a ministerial report. We are assigned to the foreign minister’s resignation. I am the reporter for this question, and I ask you to give me your word and consider it and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u134	Melnik Peter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not object to the human resources issues and their consideration, but I would like to draw attention to being the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which is responsible for the expenditure. We will never be able to fill the income portion of the budget if we are to put directly into the room those bills that should and must work to fill the budget. I would ask that you, Adam Ivanovich, as chairman, of course Alexander Alexandrovich, do not violate the Rules and send these bills for consideration by the Committee on Budget Affairs. If we're responsible politicians. And there should be a previous expertise on these issues. And then it'll be easier for everyone in the room to be professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u136	Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u137	Adam Ivanovich, the head of the Central Collector, assured us that the elections in Czernigov, Kirovograd, would take place in an honest and conscientious manner. We know Puzakov's colleagues, he worked for the Supreme Council, he claimed to be a professional deputy of the Supreme Council, and we know him as the factory director, who, even in difficult circumstances, was able to save the factory, he was able to save the collective. I think that for Kirovgrad it will be the real mayor of the city and the centrifuge must be obliged not to make any manipulations that have been in progress for four days.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u138	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u139	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The Antichrist Coalition, on the other hand, is talking about personnel decisions, apparently itching somewhere in the same place. And I would like to address you, Adam Ivanovich. With respect for you, how ungrateful you are to the government you are sitting on that chair! I have seen the reaction of Mikola Janović Azarov to your expression that “I don’t need a government here”. And, you know, I had exactly the same reaction, although I have no relation to your assignment. But I don’t think you can spit in the well from which you drink water. And I hope that there will be a time in the country when a better government will come that you will not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a brief summary of what has been said. Comrade Lazko, I'm surprised you don't know how the second reading is done as an active member of the Regulatory Committee. Take it and read it. They shall vote and shall have the right to speak by those who amend. If the government had made corrections, he would have been given the word. One more point: I would like every law to be followed by those who have factories and factories. I'm sure we wouldn't have adopted any law then to the detriment of our manufacturer. But you voted friendlyly to hurt him. That's why it's not up to me. As far as I'm concerned, Peter Volodymyrovich Melnik, that's all the laws. I don't understand. We need to talk specifically about what laws. That's what I'm going to say. For example, Kaletnik spoke about us entering into the factory retraining law. Well, it's not a rule of law, you know, it's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers or some other body. I think you agree. Now, about the proposals that were made to look at the personnel issues. Indeed, there is a submission, there is the appointment of the Prime Minister to implement our decision to release Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich from office as Minister of Interior, who, in order to address this issue, I ask to vote on the inclusion in the agenda. Once again, the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Prime Minister for the release of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich from the post of Minister of Interior is put to the vote. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[5:51:59]] For 228 The decision is included. The decision is included. By factions, please: Region Party – 184, Block Timoshenko – 10, Our Ukraine – 3, Socialists – 6, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Sign up for the procedure, sign up. Yes, three minutes, please. Bogesheva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u141	Please pass the word to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u142	Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u143	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction. I am very sorry for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who, in that passion, is as quick as possible to get rid of one of the most orderly ministers of his government, does not even know how to make a written ruling, the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. Note that he proposes to accept the resignation of Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, but Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko did not resign. In this regard, the draft decree cannot be considered because it does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u144	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, I fully support the speaker. Indeed, intrusively, perhaps before the visit, someone was eager to announce to his friends in Moscow what the matter had already been resolved. And, in fact, the Prime Minister pointed to the constitutional coalition’s failure to make a decision on liberation. And the only formal basis for a valid constitution can only be a declaration of resignation. But I'll remind you that Mr. Lucenko has called off his resignation application, but we've forgotten about it. At the same time, we insist that the author of the submission, namely, the Prime Minister himself, should be present in the Chamber in accordance with the Rules. And the new candidate he's proposing for this position. In this regard, I ask that the Chief of Staff consider this important situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u146	Please, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u147	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to pass the word to Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u148	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u149	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Once again, I want to draw your attention to what is in the Rules. Adam Ivanovich, please! There is Article 27, which defines the duties of Head of the meeting. And part one, part one, part one, is that before the meeting, you have to announce who's not in the room for good reasons. You don't do that all the time. Dear Adam Ivanovich, in line with part five of article 47, I read: “The Supreme Council’s decision on draft laws and regulations can only be made on matters that are included in the agenda. ‘ I’m saying, ‘ I don’t know what I’m talking about. included in the agenda before the beginning of the meeting.’ Please follow the Rules. It's not your right, it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u150	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u151	Another time, as you emphasize, should be emphasized and considered when dealing with the issue of famine. There no one heard you, and you saw that the Rules were being violated, but you were comfortable with this law being passed, and you sat there and kept silent. And now you've mentioned that you're finally working for the Rules Committee. First. It's different. There is already 2635 in place. Anyone who does not know how to read or who does not want to get acquainted with this decision, please get to know him. And I think it's perfectly logical and correct when we begin the process of cleaning and forming a single, monolithic team of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So, Adam Ivanovich, we don't need to waste time. Let's ask a question about the vote, and don't forget to extend the job by 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-30-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, calm down. I continue to work for the evening session for 15 minutes on what was said. Indeed, colleagues have already said that there is a draft decree that speaks. The break may be after the question has finished. The question does not stop. There is draft decree number 2635, which states, in accordance with article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Lucenko from office as Minister of Interior. Please vote. [[17:57:29]] For 223 The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialist Party – 1, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 4. Calm down, calm down, calm down. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
