ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. I'm going through a roll-call, please. [[16:00:29]] Locked cards of 442 national deputies. The evening session shall be declared open. The issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas is being considered. [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the construction, construction, housing and utility subcommittee Yuri Vitaliyovich Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In February of this year, the Supreme Council was adopted on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Planning and Landing, introduced by the national deputy Isaiah. During the drafting of the bill for second reading by the committee, seven proposals and comments were processed by national deputies, two of which were taken into account entirely, four in editorial terms. The final draft of the bill is complemented, in our view, by the principled positions. First. The first sentence of part three of article 24 and part three of article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas clarified the specific cases of obtaining a contract by a buyer, a contractor who is not the owner or user of the land area, the consent of the owner or user of the land to its construction. This is due to the fact that the application of the existing law of the words “or the consent of the owner or user” gives third parties permission to build the right to choose or obtain the consent of the owner of the land without the consent of the user or the consent of the user without the consent of the owner. In addition, in order to avoid the possible consequences of the need for confirmation of the granting of legal or physical consent to a landowner or user, the third party’s consent to the construction of the land area is proposed to give a notary certificate. So it sounds like this. The application is accompanied by a document demonstrating the ownership or use of the land in the event that the buyer, the contractor is not the owner or the user of the land area, and a notary consent of the owner of the land to the construction is given. If the area is in use, the owner’s and the user’s consent to the site’s construction is notable. Article 29 clarifies the list of documents on the basis of which building permits are issued, namely, deleted as a mandatory conclusion of the State Investment Expertise. The aim of this clarification is to avoid the possibility for State Architectural Control inspectors to require constructionists to carry out additional investment expertise on project documentation and, if such expertise is not required, to receive advice from the authorities on the non-necessary nature of the process. Instead, the article was clarified by the words “project documentation agreed and approved under legislation”. In accordance with the established order, the Investment Act of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the procedure for the approval of investment programmes and construction projects and the implementation of their comprehensive state expertise, the Order of the State of Ukraine on the Approval of the List of Construction Objects, which do not require a comprehensive state expertise within the framework of Ukrainian legislation, the approval of the project documentation for the construction of the facility is carried out in favour of the conclusion of the state expertise other than the objects whose construction projects do not need such a conclusion. The third, supplemented by a new article, is the 30th verse. regarding the acceptance into service of buildings completed. The bill is accepted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. At its meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u3	I'll remind the MPs that the second-reading procedure is being considered and you've heard from the report and you see in the comparative table that all the comments are taken into account, either editorially or essentially completely and so on. One amendment has been rejected and, as I understand it, the author himself does not insist on voting on this amendment, does he? And he's a reporter. So we have every reason to vote for this project. If you don't mind, I'm voting on a draft law, registration number 0945-2, on planning the construction of the territory. There's a vote coming. [[16:05:57]] For 278 Decision taken. A total of 278 national deputies voted in favour. Dear colleagues, you may have noticed the presence of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. I'd like to welcome him to our session room. He proposes that the Supreme Council consider the appointment of a minister for emergencies. I ask you to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. There's a vote coming. Yes, there is, there [[16:07:02]] For 247 Decision taken. I give the floor to Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Alexander! Honorable National MPs, representatives of the media. According to paragraph 12 of the first century. 85 and part four of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine introduce the appointment of Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich as Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please consider this question and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u5	Whether it's a question to the Prime Minister or, let's give it a second, let's let Nestor Ivanovich answer the question himself. Do you want to ask the Prime Minister a question? Please give the Man a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u6	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Victor Fedorovich, of course, it is your right to submit members, candidates for your government. But let me ask you a question. Now we know very well Nestor Ivanovich, his biography, his political path, his work path. What's the motivation that it's Nestor Ivanovich that you're proposing a fairly responsible ministry where you have to have both the specifics and the understanding of the situation. And as they say, because it's the Ministry of Emergency Situations, not the Ministry of Agriculture, because Nestor Ivanovich has a relationship. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u7	The decision on the appointment of Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich was considered by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister, with the participation of the Council of Coalitions. And that decision was collegiate. The decision we were considering was based on the fact that Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich had sufficient work experience. And the last work he did in Parliament, that is, when he worked as a national deputy of Ukraine on various committees, including the Committee on Budgets, gives us good reason to believe that he is an experienced person. I'm addressing the national deputies here in the hall. Please tell us that there were no examples of national MPs taking positions, taking positions and showing high levels of work and showing? Give me the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u8	Okay. Nestor Ivanovich has the word. Please go to the rostrum. Well, your biography is familiar with and distributed materials, the last two vocations he was a national deputy to Ukraine. To avoid wasting your time, ask him who wants to ask. Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Boyko. Matvienkov instead of Boyko. He's stuck behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u9	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Nestor Ivanovich, please tell me the question of appointment was agreed upon at the council, so to speak, most of it, but I would like to ask you a question on a professional level. Indeed, the situation of disaster management, in the emergency situation that has arisen today, in the landslide systems, is not a simple situation that is rather complex, requires a certain amount of force, energy, emphasis and so on. So this is what you see as the main tasks, so to speak, at this job? What are you going to focus on, and what are you going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. I'd like to answer your question. Of course, today, when more than 10,000 Ukrainian enterprises are the causes of potential technological catastrophes, we must conduct large-scale training activities for both senior officials and local authorities in order to overcome opportunities and prevent such disasters. I would like to point out that it is today that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine conducts training at the level of heads of ministries and heads of regional public administrations in order to ensure that such activities are subsequently carried out at the regional level, especially in enterprises that pose a potential threat to technological disasters in order to prevent them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u11	Thank you. You probably don't know what we're going to have to ask for a minute, a minute to answer. Zablock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u12	Nestor Ivanovich, I'd like to wish you success on your doorstep and I'd like to give you a word for a question to Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklesenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u13	Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u14	Dear Nestor Ivanovich, our faction and colleagues were delighted to hear about your arrival in government because many know you as a politician, and we know you as a person who can work systematically, especially in legislation. The only thing I'm asking is that the first is to keep the personnel, the second is we're in the budget committee ready to support you for funding, the third is that I ask you to live by the formula, and you wake up from the morning and think about what you've done for Novogoddanovka? I'm asking you, this is a very serious problem. Viktor Fedorovic, unfortunately, has removed the problem from the Ministry of Defence. So, Nestor Ivanovich, you woke up this morning and what did you do for Novogoddanovka?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u15	Thank you. Alexander Nikolayevich, of course, experience of work. I apologize because I respect the language that is asked and answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u16	Nothing. He knows any of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u17	Of course, Alexander Nikolajevic, today's issue of Novo Bogdanovka, is one of the bloodthirsty issues that I am sure concerns all of our Ukrainian society. And we will do everything together with the well-respected Supreme Council to prevent the tragedies that have taken place in Novo Bogdanovka and, unfortunately, we must note that there are still such warehouses in Ukraine. We will be dealing with this issue first and foremost. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u18	Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I think we will support the proposal made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and vote in favour of the appointment of Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich as Minister of Emergency Situations. His main trait, and we know him very well, practically all those who were on the Supreme Council for the first time and who weren't, is a systematic approach to solving problems. So I think he can lead and run this job properly. The only wish for him is that he's used to working in such crisis or extreme conditions so that he doesn't create extraordinary situations himself to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u20	Thank you. Thank you for your request. I take that as a question, of course, and I want to remind you that since 1999, I have been working on the budget committee of Ukraine, a deputy head, including, in fact, a coalition coordinator on the budget committee since 2002. Of course, in our eyes we have looked at what natural disasters, unfortunately, cannot be affected by us, which cannot be prevented by 100 percent, affect the lives of our citizens. We need to make a system today that will provide maximum conditions for the elimination of natural disasters and for the prevention and prevention of technological disasters. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u21	Time taken, time spent. Do MPs insist? No, they don't. You can put it to a vote. I'm putting Nestor Schuffritch's candidacy to appoint a minister with extraordinary voting situations. Please. [[16:17:27]] For 249 Decision taken. We wish the new minister success in his work. Regarding professionalism, I mean, it was the right question, but let's remind ourselves that his predecessor was in the same way with the same experience from the same region. So there were no questions, so. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on issues relating to compulsory public social insurance]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to recall that this bill was adopted by 408 votes in the first reading. The second reading was followed by seven proposals from the people's deputies. They're all accounted for. I want to remind you very briefly of the essence of the law. We are equating in fact the Occupational Accident Insurance Fund and other funds to the position of the Pension Fund with regard to increasing liability for violations of the law, non-calculation of insurance contributions from the Social Insurance Fund or partial payment by both enterprises and individuals who are “entity and employ employment”. The second proposal concerns the impossibility of determining the penalty for failure to grant the Accident Insurance Fund the right to carry out checks on enterprises under its functions. The second part is to balance the ability of social insurance funds in bankruptcy of the enterprise to receive compensation under the liabilities of the Social Insurance Fund in the sixth place, as was the case previously, which has an impact on benefits. Disability of production and, in addition to the Pension Fund, the second satisfaction of obligations to the funds and the latter is also proposed for early change, for timely and incomplete payment and payment of insurance contributions, for a certain penalty for violators of the law. This is in principle the whole law, so please support the Committee's proposal and adopt it as a whole, on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u23	The honourable deputies, to the text adopted in the first reading, are given 7 suggestions and amendments, and they are all included. We discussed this project carefully during our first reading, and we all tended to accept it. Corrections are taken into account, there is an opportunity to put it to a vote as a whole as a law. That's what I'm doing. I'm asking you to vote on the law. Registration number 1266 “To amend certain legislative acts on matters of compulsory public social insurance”. Here comes the vote. [[16:21:10]] For 270. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Pension Insurance is under consideration. [[on the rights and guarantees of individual categories of pensioners]] Reports the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons – Cibenko Petr Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u24	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, followed up with the Supreme Council’s decree of September 22, 2006. Six comments came to the committee, all six comments were taken into account by the committee. I would like to point out that at the end of this document, the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy worked very well. And that's why, in fact, all the comments were taken into account. At the last moment, however, the Ministry of Finance’s remarks were made, which comes down to the next proposal. To supplement article 47 with a new part of this content: In the case of a person who is assigned a pension in accordance with part 2 of article 33 of this Law, except in cases where a person has reached the retirement age provided for in article 26 of this Law, the disability pension is paid in the amount foreseen in part 2 of article 33 of this Law. The committee also considered this proposal. We think that it's not carrying any new load, that this idea is basically present in the body of the law. But in order to avoid being exposed to the veto, for example, the committee is willing to take this proposal into account. Therefore, I ask that you accept this document in a second reading and in general, taking into account the proposal I have just made by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u25	Deputies! Since all the proposals are taken into account and the proposal from the Ministry absolutely does not undermine the material of the law, we have the opportunity to accept this proposal in general. I put to the vote the law, registration number 1126, “On a general government pension insurance”, making changes to this law. Here comes the vote. [[16:23:51]] For 329 The decision is made, thank you. A draft Ukrainian law, registration number 1249, is proposed for your consideration, to be considered with the President's proposals on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the order of the system of organs that fight organized crime. I give the floor to the representative of President Zvarich Roman Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u26	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This law, which was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 5, of this year, cannot be signed by the President, since its individual standards do not comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In particular, the law provides for agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption on such issues as appointment and dismissal of heads of special departments to combat organized crime, Head of the Internal Security Department of the Ministry of Internal Security. [[This is the first article of the first chapter of the first law]] There is also agreement on the establishment and liquidation of departments and departments to combat organized crime in the Atomic Republic of Crimea, in the headquarters and administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the areas of Kiev and Sevastopol, other cities, and so forth. There is also agreement on the structure and size of special units to combat organized crime in the internal affairs of Ukraine. At the same time, the law authorizes the appointed committee to appoint and release from office the Head of the State Committee for Financial Monitoring of Ukraine, its first deputy and deputy, the heads of the regional departments, the State Committee for Financial Monitoring of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in areas as well as a number of other officials, and I will not list them for reasons of time savings. These positions, according to the President of Ukraine, do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, particularly the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 89, part one, of the Constitutions of Ukraine, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are set up to carry out legislative work, preparation and prior consideration of issues related to its powers and exercise of control functions in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. As stated in articles 13 and 18 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is the parliamentary committees that take part in the previous discussion and draw appropriate conclusions solely on the candidates of officials elected under the Constitution of Ukraine, who are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and no other officials are provided for in the basic law. In view of what the President has said, he proposes the following. First, in paragraphs 5 and 7, paragraph 11 of the first article of the first chapter of the first law, the word “agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption” and the phrase “under agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council” should be deleted again by that name. And the president's second suggestion is that the second article in the first and the second article in the second section of the first law should be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u27	I understand that there are no questions for the reporter and, Roman Mikhailovich, thank you for the report. Mikola Vasilovich Giga, head of the committee, will report to the committee on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u28	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. On October 5, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law amending certain laws of Ukraine to regulate the system of organs that fight organized crime. A total of 310 national deputies voted in favour of the law. On October 31st, the President of Ukraine returned the above-mentioned law with proposals to exclude from the text the provisions on the harmonization with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption of matters of appointment and dismissal of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine, as well as the establishment, liquidation of departments and departments to combat organized crime. Since the President of Ukraine provides in fact one ground for excluding these provisions of the law, the inadequacy of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law “On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. So let me make a general argument about the inadmissibility of the President of Ukraine's proposals, because they apply to all proposals. Proposals and observations of a similar nature were considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its consideration of the draft in the first, second readings and were found groundless. The provisions laid down by law are fully based on the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, article 85, paragraph 33, of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exercise parliamentary control within the limits laid down by the Constitution and the law, and article 89 of the Constitution provides for the control powers to be exercised by the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine makes it clear that the limits of control powers are also defined by law. Furthermore, according to article 85, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to exercise control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with this Constitution and law. It is again determined that the supervisory powers of the Supreme Council under the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can also be determined by law. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is part of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine exercises overall control over the Cabinet of Ministers, it can also exercise control over the activities of individual authorities, defining in the law specific forms of such control. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to approve the overall structure and size of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, it is only natural that it can entrust and coordinate the structure and number of individual units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as well as the establishment and liquidation of the departments and divisions of these units. In addition, the supervisory powers of the committee, both personnel and personnel, had already been determined by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 11 July of this year. Thus, the provisions of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the system of organs that deal with organized crime are fully in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and are aimed at the practical implementation of the above-mentioned constitutional rules and the absence of these provisions on the control powers of the committee in the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not mean that they cannot be implemented in practice, as such provisions may be established by other laws. This law is also part of the law. Thus, from a legal point of view, there is no reason to exclude from the text of the law the provisions of the Ukrainian President's proposals on the control powers of the committee. Moreover, the question of the unconstitutionality of these others or other provisions of the law is decided solely by the Constitutional Court. The Act proposes a clear and transparent system of agreement for the appointment and release of only some officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Sustainable Monitoring, where representatives of all parties and political forces represented in Parliament take part in the consideration of these issues. In keeping with what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws on the organization of the system of organs that fight organized crime, to reject. The text of the articles should be left in the previous edition and that this law should be re-adopted in general by at least two thirds of the votes of the Ukrainian national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u29	Okay. I understood the committee's proposal. Please sit down. No questions asked. But wait, will there suddenly be any suggestions? We have to vote first on the President's proposals, and obviously explain then, let's say, the motivation for a society that's listening, well, to those who are now listening to our meeting. That's what this is about. Today, when a government is formed by a coalition, there is no doubt that the agreement of the respective candidates is also carried out by the coalition. And in order to take into account the opinion of the opposition particularly in personnel matters, it was suggested that the committee also analyse the quality of these candidates and be able to express its views even in the discussion on this subject. On the other hand, the Supreme Council performs control functions. And control functions are usually performed through frames, including. And knowing these images is obviously Parliament's right, of course. Nevertheless, the president thinks it's too much. On the other hand, we also understand that this applies obviously to the President's conclusions or proposals on the mandate of the President's Institute for other appointments that are not provided for by the Constitution. These conclusions can be drawn later, either by referring to the Constitutional Court or otherwise, but in principle, the committee has now made its proposal, we will vote on it, but first we will vote on the President's proposals. I also wanted to ask Roman Mikhailovich, the President's representative. The President of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council with his letter on this subject, gave his reasons, and told who would report. Then you'll report it. But then came confirmation, a repetition by the head of the President's Secretariat, that's not something we need to do, a pretty authoritative word from the President. Okay? Now, regarding the President's proposal. I will put to the vote the first sentence to remove the words from the third paragraph of Article 9. President's first proposal. In the fifth paragraph of article 1, paragraph 1, of section 1 of the Act, the words “agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption” should be deleted. I'm voting on the President's proposal. [[16:36:25]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The second sentence is also relevant only to another paragraph of the article. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:36:48]] For-69 Item 3. The President's third amendment or remarks also refer to the content of paragraph 1 of section 1. Please vote. [[16:37:17]] For-76 The fourth amendment to this is just the other point, it's in your hands. Please vote. [[16:37:41]] For-65 This amendment is not accepted. The fifth amendment to paragraph 2 of article 1 of the section deals with the exclusion of this paragraph by voting. [[16:38:06]] For-74. No, it's not. And the sixth amendment of the same substance regarding article 2, paragraph 2, of the first chapter of the law. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:38:28]] For-80 The decision is not made. For the reasons of the vote, Sergey Mishchenko asks for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u30	Dear National Deputies! Sergey Mishchenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. This law has been in force since 1993. For 13 years, no one thought that the committee was somehow performing its functions. During this time, hundreds of prosecutors and the Central and High Line Security Service have agreed, but internal affairs officials have failed to deal with corruption and organized crime. So why do we have doubts about prosecutors and security officials? We're, what, we're gonna make the police separate some kind of untouchable structure? I think everyone should be equal before the law. And these control functions, which the committee only gives consent to this, should stay, and the police should be in the same conditions as all other law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u31	Clearly, these are the motives expressed by Sergey Ishchenk on behalf of the faction, so I understand. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt in the whole of this law to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the order of the system of organs that fight organized crime. [[Registration number 1249]] Here comes the vote, please. [[16:40:29]] For 249 The law is passed. The President will sign it. He won't sign. What? Oh, then I'm sorry. I made a false statement because when the President's veto was overtaken, if 300 votes were cast, the law was regarded as rejected. Declined. You heard what Easy said, didn't you? Right. So the previous law is in operation. But they got it right. Please! The draft Law amending certain legislative acts on liability for corruption offences is being considered in the re-reading procedure by the President and the deputies. I want to remind you that we had three draft laws according to those conventions that we ratified here, in the session hall, about a month and a half ago, we had the task of tasking the profiling committees to finalize the draft laws introduced by the President and to bring them up for review by the Supreme Council in the re-reading mode. For this reason, Giga Mikola Vasilovich reports under Law 2112-d. 2112, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 18 October 2006 on the administration to the Committee of a package of anti-corruption bills No. 2112 on amending certain legislative acts on liability for corruption; No. 2113 on anti-corruption principles and anti-corruption principles and No. 2114 on the liability of legal persons for acts of corruption. A working group was set up by the committee’s management to prepare for the rereading of the above - mentioned drafts. Members of the committee, members of the committee secretariat, representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, scientists and representatives of the public were included in the working group by agreement. There were three meetings of the working group. Taking into account the requirements of article 104, part 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules on Reiteration of the Bill, proposals are made only with regard to its basics, principles, criteria. The working group worked on proposals and comments to the Ukrainian National Deputies Bills, as expressed during the first reading of the drafts, and some conclusions were taken into account by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the representative of the legal entity of the legislative initiative. In particular, Bill No. 2112 of the 45 comments took 25 and 20 into account; Bill 2113 of the 81 comments rejected 39 and 42; Bill 2114 of the 15 observations 7 counted and 8 rejected. Along with the first reading of drafts, members of the working group stressed that the bills had significant substantive flaws and some of their positions raised serious objections. However, due to the stated requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, they cannot be removed during the drafting of drafts for re-reading, but they must be taken into account when preparing drafts for the second or perhaps third readings. Considering that the bills tabled by the President of Ukraine are of great social importance and reflect the State's concern about the serious problems posed by corruption and the threats to the stability and security of society, which undermine democratic institutions and values, undermine the continued development and rule of law, as well as its desire to self-clean state mechanisms, prepared and harmonized with the body's right to legislative initiative, the bills have been submitted to the committee on 15 November this year. After considering these bills, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a review of the first reading, to adopt them as a basis, by entrusting the committee to work on them, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the legislative initiative, and by introducing bills for consideration by the Supreme Council in a second reading. Relevant draft regulations have been introduced for your consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u33	As you can see, I would like to address you, and we have three laws that are interlinked. Wait. And the expert’s findings say that we should work on these projects for a second or even a third reading in connection with those projects. And you hear that offer. So why do I say this: we can now announce three projects to be discussed, but we can vote separately, and we can follow the procedure of each individual project. Every single one? Let's do each one separately. Any questions to the reporter? Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I have a question for you. Today you propose that we adopt three bills to increase the fight against corruption. At the same time, I remember, a few days ago, we were handed out from the government a bill amending the State Service Act, which provides that family members of government officials do not report their incomes. Today’s editors also report those who claim to be civil servants and their relatives. So what is the fight against corruption? When he submits such bills. In addition, we read carefully how many here, the mass of notes to these three bills. So they were raw, when we first looked at them, they're still as raw as they are today. So what were you working on in the committee at the time when all those flaws remained today and they were not removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u35	Thank you for asking, Oleg. After three bills have been drafted, all these shortcomings will be corrected on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u36	Now what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u37	And now we need to work out, because I've been stressing that these bills have a lot of imperfections, they need to be worked out on the committee, and there are these crimes that are supposed to be heard by our citizens today: illegal wealth, trade in influence, and so on. The 12 articles are included in chapter 9, chapter 9, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, or the liability of legal persons. That's why we need to work out, and the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers passed the bill, well, it needs to be taken into account, and we'll be working on it too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u38	Well, there's a masked criticism of the president's executives, asked by Lalach. Because that's where the project was coming from, and he knows it, and he's doing it on purpose. But we don't talk about it to anyone, we're talking about it essentially. Please, the Borschev question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u39	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. Please tell me this bill and you have just confirmed that it is very poorly aligned with the existing legislative framework today. And, as we know, when ambiguity arises in the implementation of the Laws, there is the greatest threat of corruption. In your view, second reading will be able to eliminate these contradictions between these laws and the entire system of existing law enforcement legislation in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u40	Thank you. Indeed, this law, these three bills, are in conflict with certain existing laws, such as the Business Act, with certain provisions of the Constitution, which are related to violations of the rights of entrepreneurs and human rights in general. The Committee has therefore set up a working group, including scientists and people's deputies, and experts from agencies to harmonize this law as much as possible so that it can subsequently be adapted to the legislative framework of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u41	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u42	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Nikolai Vasilevich! Of course, laws are needed, no doubt. And those papers we signed on FatF, which today, well, let's say, still affect Ukraine, and we feel responsible for making order on this issue, I think there is no doubt about it. But since these bills are indeed raw, we will certainly vote in favour of them in the first reading in order to open the way and allow them to be finalized and finally brought to order in the country on this issue. But it is to your committee that this bill should not be drafted in such a way that the bill becomes a weapon against those people that we always have, often, are law-abiding, those who are trying to do business honestly, in good faith, those who are honest in running the economy, because we know that many of the bills and documents that have been passed before are often in this direction and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u43	Thank you. It'll probably be a proposal. I think it is right for those who will fight or comply with this law to be traditional bodies such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service. There is a proposal to establish an alternative body. Well, it's kind of perspective, too. Parliament's greatest control and supervision by the Public Prosecutor's Office is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u44	Have a seat, please. Are there any who would like to express themselves regarding the content of this law? Please sign up. The factions first. And in principle, you can only limit yourself to what the faction says. Two factions — Bondarchuk and Mishchenko — were registered. Anyone else want to say something? You can sign up for more. Just MPs, not factions. Thank you. Give me 10 minutes. Bondarchuk has his word. Please. I would like to ask you to speak more concisely, for many laws are yet to come. Ivan Bondarczuk speaks from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u45	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. We looked at these documents in detail at the faction. And as our representative Sergey Anatolyevich Matvienkov has already said, there is no need to open the debate now on this subject. Anyone who has any specific comments, rather than just swallowing water here in general, give your specific suggestions to the committee, and they will be included in the second reading. So I'm just suggesting not to waste time, but who has, who has actually read these bills, and they've got additions or any comments, they can refer them to the committee, and the committee in the process of preparing for the second reading will take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u46	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, please, from the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u47	Sergey Mishchenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and citizens of Ukraine. Last time we considered this bill, as well as the two successors that we are going to consider today, most of the national deputies of different factions, having different political views, agreed in one -- all of these low-level bills need substantial work. More than 400 national deputies then voted to return the bill to the profile committee. Such a decision was also made by the fact that the return of the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative, that is, to the President, would cause a sharpening between the two branches of authority. They are still unable to understand, and the real work of overcoming corruption is one of the priorities for the state. Unfortunately, the bill before you has not changed much. Only technical errors have been corrected. In general, the bill remains almost the same as it was. All of this is because the Rules in force, article 109, prohibits the Main Committee from radically changing the law, only technical errors. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to amend and supplement the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Offences, which seem to contribute to the fight against corruption. We are offered 3 articles on bribes, 3 articles on abuse of duty, and 3 articles on exceeding official authority. All of this is proposed for implementation of the provisions of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act. We have new corruptionists: private notaries, lawyers, heads of public organizations, political parties, private entrepreneurs, and increasing the fight against corruption of public officials. Some of the articles proposed call into question the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, and some are mere contrived. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither in the existing law nor in the proposed project, there is no kind of responsibility that removes a person who is attracted to corruption for his position. In addition, the expansion of the circle of people who are now newly discovered corrupters can lead to the fact that law enforcement agencies are statistically increasing the rate of their pseudo - conquering corruption for the sake of the branches. Regular individuals suffer. Realizing that only parliament, together with relevant institutions and the public, can submit a draft law to the second reading that meets international standards and that will enable corruption to be combated effectively and in principle, the BIT faction supports the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u48	Thank you. Belarus wants to make a statement. Oleg Grigorovich, if I may, is also shorter, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u49	Dear Head! The biggest threat is government corruption, and we have total scales. I'm handing the word to the famous anti-corruption fighter Tomenko Mikoli to today's nominee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u50	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to two very important issues that are trying to resolve this bill. If it's not the right language to say it, it's the problem of lobbyism and cumism. So there are two very important chapters that are trying to overcome this problem in Ukrainian politics is a block of articles called illegal enrichment. In principle, I'm ideologically supportive of this article, but there are a lot of questions about how we're going to deal with this godmother and family on condition that we don't have properly deciphered concepts or terms, let's say that we take possession of a service person or that we pass on such benefits to close relatives on a large scale, the legality of which is not confirmed and so on and so forth. So the first position in the law, and I understand that there is obviously no obsessive norm, which is "neighbourly relatives". So, for example, you know, you and I here with colleagues have analyzed how much we have in the Kiev city authorities, so I wonder if they all fit into, like, the category of close relatives of the city's head, for example. Because. If you analyze the last decision of the Kyiv City Council, it looks like the city's head and colleagues here can be arrested up to the age of 3 and confiscated all property, because very many relatives are the heads of the supervisory boards of commercial structures that receive benefits, preferences, particularly in tariff situations, tariffs are raised 3-4 times, structures where the supervisory boards or members of the supervisory boards are relatives of the Kiev City Head, they are now receiving fantastic profits. Is it important to me whether this norm is spreading or not? Is it going to be an exclusive list, like, there, well, the closest ones there, the wife, the brother, the sister, and all that? It's a fundamental question. Because you know we're not the only ones in Kiev, we can have any structure. That's what I'm gonna find. The second position relates to what I call dobism. It's called trade in influence in the law. You know, in some countries some degree of lobbying is allowed. But what we want to do. Look, there's a situation. We have a law on advertising. We have, for example, an advertising association, a typical lobbyist structure that does everything to make sure, for example, that we're not in it, and next year we don't ban the advertising of alcohol and tobacco, right? It uses all methods, finds, fits, argues, convincing evidence points. I ask myself, does this work fall within the category of trade in influence? Is this, for example, an authorized activity of a public organization? My colleagues, I see, are nodding my head. If so, I agree then, because this is about a completely direct impact on the situation. So I would like us to write these standards more clearly on the second reading and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u52	No, no, it's all right, please sit down. We need to give him a chance to come out, too. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u53	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The level of preparation of these bills is evidenced at least by this. For example, it is proposed to amend articles 212 21, 212 22 of the Code of Administrative Violations, which are actually intended to decriminalize bribery. If the size of the bribe does not exceed 5 non-taxable minimum citizens' income. Since next year, it's 2,000 dollars. So up to 2,000 bracelets can be taken and everything will be fine. Moreover, the same changes to the Code of Administrative Violations mean benefits of immaterial nature. However, it is incomprehensible how the drafters of the bill provide for the monetary value of such benefits for articles that provide for this monetary value as a mandatory sign. Or, for example, the amendments to article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which proposes to identify relevant officials, are as authorities and persons who hold certain positions in legal persons who have a statutory fund and only if the state share in this statutory fund exceeds 50 per cent. So up to 50 percent -- it's out of office, or, for example, the enterprise doesn't have a statutory fund, so they're no longer in charge. That's what they want, but they don't answer for anything. Such a rule will encourage you to clean up the government's share of property in those businesses where it still remains, then do whatever you want and not answer for it. Or, for example, changes to article 235 with 5 of the Criminal Code, which, if adopted, would result in an unjustified restriction on professional activity, such as a lawyer. Because a lawyer’s professional activity is to provide legal aid to businesses, organizations, institutions. The project’s authors suggest that we recognize this as a corrupt act. So actually, lawyers are going to be deprived of the ability to work. Why the flaws in the bill? Alexander Aleksandrovich was squeezing us against the Presidential Administration. Indeed, it came from the President at first. But, Alexandre Alexandrovich, we have a good memory, we remember that it was at your initiative that these bills were sent to the Main Committee for further work instead of sending them to, for example, the initiator of these bills. And today, the chairman of Giga's committee tells us that there's nothing we can do but change comas. And it turns out that for about a month and a half, these bills were there and there was no change, we're standing there, the corruptionists, they took what they were taking, and they're continuing the brothers, and we're all here to simulate the fight against corruption. So if we really want to fight corruption, bring these bills into line with the realities of life, not create the visibility of corruption and do nothing about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u54	The discussion is over. It's very principled, as you can see, that MPs speak. I'd like to pay attention to that detail. Sergey Grigorovich said that the committee could not do something like that to go beyond the concept of law. And the concept of the law is simple: to make changes to the Criminal Code, like this, and then write what you think is necessary. The same goes for Criminal Procedure and other legislative acts. And in the same way every deputy, regardless of which committee he is on, must make a serious contribution to the drafting of these laws. I'm the one who's addressing the last speaker. I was hoping that we'd be sent to a profile committee, and you, as a person who is in pain of fighting corruption, would make your own proposals. It turns out you're just speaking, you're talking, and you're not making proposals, so that's an imperfect law. It doesn't matter what committee. He has the right to make his proposals. So in order to remedy this situation, I would still vote on this document for adoption in the first reading, and it would open the way for every MP to make his proposals according to his vision of the need and the content of the fight against corruption. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[17:05:27]] For 348 A total of 348 national deputies spoke. Decision taken. 2113 a project on anti-corruption and anti-corruption principles. He will also report on this. May I vote? Let's vote because I can see by the notes, the same as the content of the remark. I'm betting on the vote in the first reading. [[17:06:12]] For 344 A decision has been made. And 2114 draft Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences. I'm betting on the vote in the first reading. [[17:06:40]] For 346 The decision has also been made. There is a proposal from the Conciliation Council for a reduced procedure when making such a decision, and I will put it to a vote, review laws to amend certain laws to improve the procedure for the recovery of the debtor’s ability to pay and respect the memory of Alexander Petrovich Long. So I propose to vote on the very procedure that has been shortened to deal with these issues. Please support. [[17:07:30.]] For 317 Decision taken. “For” was voted by 317 deputies. A project is under consideration to report to Sergey Anatoliyevich Matviyenkov on amendments to certain laws. [[on improving debtor recovery procedures]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u55	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted to implement article 3, paragraph 3, of the Act on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property and provides for improved mechanisms for the enforcement of the property of a particular group of enterprises. These include natural monopolies for the transfer and distribution of electricity, the transport of oil and gas, thermal power plants, other enterprises defined in article five of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, as well as particularly dangerous enterprises - thermal, nuclear, hydroelectric, mining, nuclear, chemical, chemical and metallurgical, petroleum and other industries. The purpose of the draft law is to prevent abuse and ensure the protection of the interests of the State in particular, and to implement bankruptcy mechanisms. What does this bill give? In particular, with a view to reducing the number of claims made by small creditors concerning the bankruptcy of special-status enterprises that are the main subject of the project, it is proposed to increase by 10 times the minimum aggregate claims of creditors determined by law for other debtors by determining at least 3,000 minimum wages. In addition, the power to dispose of property laid down by a public undertaking or enterprise. In the statutory fund, whose share of public property exceeds 25 per cent, they will be granted to the relevant privatization body. The procedure for the disposal of such property will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. An increase in objectivity, an economic court's decision on the bankruptcy of particularly dangerous enterprises of natural monopolies is made through the consideration of cases of a panel of 3 judges. Executive escorts will be discontinued in the absence of funds to meet the requirements of creditors derived from the sale of acts that do not constitute immovable property of equipment, other essential assets, as well as raw materials and materials intended for use.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u56	Allow me to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u57	I won't, so to speak, refer to it. In the absence of time, because of the reduced procedure, I just want to say one thing. The Bankruptcy Act has become a property acquisition mechanism or privatization process, unfortunately for many years. This is particularly true of the attractive, as is spoken in Ukrainian language, objects and objects that form industrial power. Therefore, in order to put an end to this matter, we must proceed with a special procedure. The law is not indisputable; I propose that it be adopted on first reading, then, in conjunction with the Committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Treasury Fund, to finalize it in such a way that we can really put up a hiding place for such serious enterprises, such serious objects as belong to a special group. Thank you and please accept it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to say yes, please sign up. And who is “against ” will be listed. Thank you. Chechtev, please. And Bondarchuk. Others didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u59	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! The project envisages further improvements in the resolution of the debtor’s ability to repay and sell its assets in the event of bankruptcy, as well as the establishment of features for the application of these procedures to larger than 25 per cent of the state-owned and particularly hazardous enterprises, as well as to state-owned enterprises and enterprises in statutory funds. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have expressed a rather principled objection to the drafting of individual laws. Yes, indeed, the mandatory acceptance of an increase or reduction in the time limit for which an asset manager is appointed in matters of bankruptcy of a state-owned enterprise and an enterprise whose statutory fund owes more than 29 per cent to the State, with a state-owned bankruptcy authority and a body authorized to manage the state-owned property proposed in the amendments to article 13 of this Act, does not meet the requirements of article 129 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the independence of judges in the exercise of justice and the requirements of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, according to which the courts exercise justice on their own. The automatic implementation of restructuring or pretrial rehabilitation proposed by the new part of the five, which is supplemented by article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of Debtors, is of no use, since in some cases other means, such as granting financial assistance, may be more effective in restoring payability. The Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and the comments made are taken into account in the preparation of the draft law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u60	Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill in detail at the faction meeting and reached such a conclusion. Of course, it's not ideal yet, but it's taking the first step towards creating a curtain, so that these attractive objects that are still in state ownership or where much of the shares belong to the state, so that we can still protect these objects. And that's exactly what this bill gives us. With regard to specific comments, we also had comments on the factions, but we decided not to waste too much time, but to make these comments and to pass them on to Sergey Anatoliyovich for further preparation of this document. So I urge everyone who cares about this to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and to enable them to work definitively, to improve, to polish and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u62	Thank you. Anyone who wanted to make a statement on this matter made a statement. And there was only one proposal to accept this Law in the first reading. That's why I'm voting in the first reading. Please accept as a basis. [[17:15:17]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. The next law, the draft decree on honoring the memory of the brilliant son of the Ukrainian people, the distinguished film director, the writer, the publicist Alexander Petrovich Duženko in connection with the 50th anniversary of his death. This document, the draft document, will be presented by the head of the Yavorovsky Volodymyr Alexanderovich Committee of Culture, please. Two minutes, it's a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u63	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues -- national MPs, honourable voters -- I would just like to remind you of that. That we have a great culture with you, really, and a very densely populated figure. Because of that. If I have to go up to this rostrum often, it's not a challenge for a committee on culture and spirituality, it's just a need to celebrate those great people who have been in our history that have brought either Ukraine or the world, or the whole European, or the All-Slovak, or even the country's glory. I'm sure it was a big mistake. I'm glad we didn't support the celebration of Bagran, that we didn't support Peter Grigornek's anniversary. And I'd like us to think about it, because it's very often that you and I are like a famous character by the name, and he had a really big name, Pontius, who would call for more frequent hand washing. Now, unfortunately, again, around one of the most outstanding 20th-century figures in our culture and in the world, I emphasize, the culture at the expense of the cinematographer is Alexander Petrovich Longzenko. Regrettably, the decision on his appointment has been almost two months now, give me your word, he's been in our session programs and he's been moving, moving all the time, and we finally came up with this question today, even though the day of the 25th of November, actually, has already happened. However, the committee is proposing to you, and we insist that the matter is not in the Long Age date, the thing is in scope, on the scale of this remarkable man. I wish we didn't even have Alexander the Long of an outstanding Ukrainian writer who grew up in the works of the generation of Olesia Potter, then the generation of sixties, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u64	Under the reduced procedure of two minutes, please complete your opinion. You speak well, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u65	I understand, but then why did we give you five minutes? I've been preparing for five minutes, now it's all messed up. I want to. Then allow me another minute, Alexander Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u66	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u67	I want to say that the magnitude of the Longitude is absolutely not comparable to anyone we've already accepted. I don't want to humiliate anyone, but the film "The Earth" is called one of the top ten films of all peoples and all time. No one else can offer that amount. I mean, while you and I were moving this order, the President's decree had already been issued. However, Alexander Alexanderovich, I would advise the Supreme Council. It's a lot of different documents that complement each other. In contrast to our project, the President proposes to place monuments in Czernigov Duženkov and Kiev, but our draft decrees have a graph to fund it accordingly. The President's decree, without our ruling, seems to hang in the air, and yet, without the President's decree, our ruling will be incomplete. Because of this, I would think it would be wise for us to vote in favour of this decree today, and for the Ministry of Culture, which will execute our decree, and for the President's decree, let them unite and execute. And I am convinced that we will do a very good thing for Ukraine, for our people, and for our culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u68	Thank you. Who wants to say "yes" and "against". Have a seat, please. Sign up. Are there no wanters? Let's support this proposal. I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please support. [[17:20:13]] For-126 Didn't I understand how to explain the vote? Huh? I can't hear you. They vote. Please publish the factions, insist. “Regions” – 2, Timoshenko Block – 37, “Our Ukraine” – 62, socialists – 23, communist – 0, non-fractional – 2 There was a discussion on this, no one said that the ruling contained a paragraph on recalculation of dust, yes, and in the President's decree, and here. But the point is that it would have to be done in a proper manner with the family, the loved ones, who decide. Let's do it. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, let us vote without this paragraph. The President's decree is, and a decree will be adopted. We'll build a monument, we'll make funding. Let's do it without being buried. Let's vote. Mikhail Vasilovich. Well, there's no wish. Okay. Huh? Oh, yeah. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I suggest you work on this project for tomorrow, and then if the MPs agree to come back to this issue, we will vote again. Well, please. So once again, one point called for discussion. With close relatives and relatives, Alexander Petrovich Duzhenko disagreed with the question of rescheduling. One second. But since this question is obviously going to be clarified and resolved positively, because today its grave is not organized at the Novodovich cemetery in Moscow, it would still have to be found in the working order and resolved. And the President's decree already stipulates that. So we can't, we have, we have our decision in place, so let's make a decision about the creation of the monuments, the financing of these works, and so on, and in the decree, it's all connected with the burial, the burial. Then without that point, let us vote and take a decision. Give the Yavorovsky word. And Chechnya's word, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexandre Alexandrovich. I would also like to remind the radio audience who are listening to our session that there is only one sky left in Alexander Petrovich Long. This is his sister Polina's son. He lives and works in Moscow, academia, and medicine. He turned to the President of Ukraine, turned to our committee, this is his only heir, asking him to fulfill Alexander Long's will and move him to Ukraine. We do not ask, Alexander Alexanderovich, today the question of whether to bury him in the Sosnica or to bury him in Kiev. This will then be dealt with later, today we have to go through a preparatory period, negotiate with the Russian government, with the Moscow government, and then there will be a second stage when we accept the approval, where we bury it, or on the Kiev mountain, as he commanded, or in Sosnica, where he was born. But the parents ’ permission is! If he wasn't there, we wouldn't be making this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u70	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I'm going back to the subject. Obviously, the Supreme Council is not going to deal with all of these issues, there is a procedure envisaged in executive structures of power, there is a presidential decree that will decide, already solves this issue, to the honor of those who will do so, obviously, and the Writer's Association will do, it will have to help with. And do it right. It is our business to make a decision that provides for the allocation of funds, the creation of monuments, and so forth. Let's support this line, and that'll be normal. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u71	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! It would probably have to be supported, indeed, by the lapus admitted to the Presidential Administration, and the source of funding was not indicated. Unfortunately, there is no money, but the President has imposed a veto on the budget! Let him rip the veto off the budget, and we'll vote yes! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-12-m1.u72	The argument. Please, calm down! Calm down! Calm down! Don't make any noise, please. Wait! We're going to do this, we're going to vote this positive without the item I'm talking about, and we're going to go to all the MPs, we're going to raise money, and we're going to make these monuments budgetless, and that's going to be normal. Please, I'll put it to a vote, let's vote. Well, please, vote, that's what we have to do. No prescribing. Come on. It's in the President's decree. There's a vote coming. Please. [[17:26:21]] For-179 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, Party of Regions 9, Block of Timoshenko 61, “Our Ukraine” 63, SPI 30, Communists 14, non-fractional - 2. Thank you. Questions are being considered for inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session of issues proposed by the President - Draft Law on Amendments to Article 81 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. There's a whole list of bills. It's about putting them in the order of the day. I'll put it to a vote. And there's a part of them that's ready to be considered. But now it's a matter of getting into the day. I'm putting this presidential project to a vote. Please turn it on. 2663. [[17:27:29]] For 276 Decision taken. Similarly, the President introduces a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority, number 2658. I'm betting on the vote on this project. We don't really think about it, we just include questions to consider. [[17:27:58]] For 297 Decision taken, 297 in favour. A government draft of the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. I would like to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the order of the day. [[17:28:25]] For 313 Also a government draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on State Executive Service and on Executive Management on reforming the authorities of the State Executive Service. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion of this issue. [[17:28:55]] For 243 Decision taken. Government Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. I'm putting the question of putting the matter to the vote in order of the day. [[17:29:21]] For 267 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation of goods temporarily imported into Ukrainian customs territory. I am voting on the inclusion of this draft number 2551. The project, by the way, introduces Peter Poroshenko, reports here and works on him. I'm reporting it to those who don't want to vote. [[17:29:54]] For 253 Governmental draft Law amending article 108 of the Customs Code of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. A responsible banking committee led by Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:30:24]] For 253 Governmental project 2679. The draft Law on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and in Building Areas and Municipal Services, which was formed on December 1, 2006. The responsible head of the Serbian Committee, Yuri Sergiyovich. I would like to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the order of the day. [[17:31:01]] For 276 The draft Law on Military and Technical Cooperation with Foreign States has already been prepared for consideration. Kinakh’s responsible chairman, Anatoly Kirilovich I'm going to vote 2388. Submitted by national deputy Sovkovic. [[17:31:29]] For-67 Not supported. Draft Law on the Promotion of the Chemical Industry of Ukraine Responsible Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, 2214 project. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:32:00]] For 227 Decision taken. Three projects: 2521, 2521-1, 2521-2, three versions of the draft Law on State regulation of gambling activities [[Matvienkova project and Leapina project, Pisarenko project]] I'm betting on the inclusion of the Supreme Council of all three. [[17:32:40]] For 307 Decision taken. Project 2473. on the amendment to article 3 of the Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. This is a project of the People's Deputy Potapova. Responsible Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. I would like to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the order of the day. [[17:33:16]] For 246 Decision taken. Honorable MP! Since we have been there twice for more than half an hour, we have brought up the program today, and the questions that have been considered have been exhausted for today’s consideration. The meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. And today, I declare the evening session closed. Thank you.
