ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests, members of the Supreme Council and representatives of the media! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:55]] There are 404 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Please listen to the announcement. Announcement: “In accordance with the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine since October 5, 2006, and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Joseph Vikcentiovich, has been expelled from the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.” On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Winsky Joseph Vikentijovich, is nonfractional. The head is alive and well. Thank you, Anatoly Sergeiovich, for your concern. He's doing his job, he's doing his job. It's okay. He has an international meeting now and so forth. Dear colleagues, let's consult. We're supposed to have speeches from the national MPs right now. If you don't mind. Please sign up. And today Friday, I'm sorry, there's no, today it's "Crazy." Let's move on to the MP's questions, to the MP's questions. People's MPs have been asked: Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in the village of the town type of the Yearly Plains Region in connection with the halting of financing the construction of a public education school and the need to speed up its implementation to normalize the school process at the district centre; A group of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of anti-corruption legislation by the head of the Kharkiv District Public Administration, Habakkuk. [[THE PROTOCOL, ISAIAH, THE TECHNOLOGY]] Teams of deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by the director of the Chernigiv District Academy of Music and Dramatic Theatre of the name Shevchenk. [[Igor ZVARIČ, CERNOVIL, ANDROS for others, only five deputies]] VALERIA KALČENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of a criminal case involving the deputy of the city council of Kirovograd Tsukanova regarding the arbitrary assignment of authority and the appointment of an official. Mr Eugene SURLOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the provision of accounting data that was used in the preparation of the 2007 draft budget. Teams of deputies to the Minister of Agriculture's policy on the results of the inspection of the closed stockholders' association of the Novgorodsiver Symposium to comply with the animal health requirements of the Russian Federation. [[COMAR, MANKOVSKI, ANDROS and others, only five deputies]] Leonida GRAČ to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on speeding up the debate on the holding of the National referendum on the National Initiative for the Entry into NATO. Vladimir KURENNOG to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration to determine the rightful location in Kiev of advertisements depicting the Kiev city’s head Leonid Czernovecki. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the city of Kiev for repairs in a residential building on the street of Henri Barbus, 56 in Kiev. VALERIA BONDIKA to the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region and the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Donetsk Region on the legality of the actions of the official person and on the violation by officials of the current legislation regarding the response to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy. Alexia Fedun to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens and legal persons. These are the MPs' questions. Please, Sleepless Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u2	Adam Ivanovich, the question is as follows. Please state that the procedure for requesting MPs has now been completely changed under the new Rules, and in order for the request to be accepted, there must be first a parliamentary appeal, a negative response to it, analysis and so on. As to all these questions that you have heard, has the procedure been applied, or has it not? That's the question. And if not, I would suggest that the Supreme Council's leadership strengthen control of this component so that the MPs don't turn it into a pyari.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Boris Jakovic, for asking and for supporting the leadership of the Supreme Council. I'll tell you honestly, it's not easy to walk away from you. Not from you personally, but from fellow national MPs, because everyone is trying to make his request as a request, regardless of the standards you've recalled. We, the secretariat, have this task, it's pretty careful to follow up on these very standards that you've been reminded of. And you recall that on Fridays we read questions for an hour or more. Today, I put five minutes into it. So this norm, fortunately, works. So, please, let's move on to the order of the day. The first issue is the making of an oath by members of the High Council of Justice. Please, we have both candidates. On August 4, 2006, Roman Mihailovich Zvarić was appointed Minister of Justice of Ukraine. On September 29, 2006, the Supreme Court of Ukraine elected Onojilovich Onopenek as head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Higher Council of Justice”, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Minister of Justice of Ukraine are appointed as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. Members of the High Council of Justice shall swear before taking office at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's an oath. I, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. I want to thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your cooperation. And I think that the hopes that have been put on me by improving the justice of Ukraine will be fulfilled. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u5	I invite you to take the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Roman Mihajlovich Zvarič. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u6	I, Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Adam Ivanovich, let us also take this opportunity to wish all the national deputies and all the lawyers of our nation fruitful work on Jurist Day along the line of building the rule of law of the European model. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let us welcome our recent colleagues, who were members of the three vocations, and Vasil Vasilovich, and Roman Mikhailovich. To thank them for the work they have done both in Parliament's walls and to sincerely wish that, in their extremely responsible positions and as the heads of the Supreme Court, as the minister of justice, and as members of the High Council of Justice, they were able to ensure that we actually have a new order for the formation of the judiciary, reforming the judiciary, so that we can be in front of all of Europe even in this respect. Congratulations. Thank you. [[Applause]] A draft Decision on the agreement between the location of the objects and the change in the target use of the land area is under consideration. [[Registration number 2149]] Please invite the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations of Bebelzenka Valerija Fedorovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies of Ukraine, at your meeting last night, I brought to your attention a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the agreement of the location of the objects and the change of purpose for the use of land. This is about 3 areas. The first is the Skrnaft area for mined wells. Also the “Desukovsky Bentonites” shareholding area, as well as the ground area 0.17 ha, which is owned by the citizen of Shahmaziyan. There were debates on this issue, and we did not have a solution. Please put this order to the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, right now, I'm going to give you a chance. Light microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I am going to do the same as last time that this draft decree was being considered, and I urge you not to support it in the allocation of particularly valuable land under the drilling of the “Scrolls”. What are we talking about? I want to give you an example of this. The Talalai district of Chernigiv County, Ukrnafta, has 100 wells and in July the maternity ward was almost closed because there was no equipment for premature children. The cost of this device is 72,000 dollars. The “crooknaft” extracts everything, the nadrama payments go to the State budget, the local budgets don't get a penny. Today, it is suggested that this should not be done until a parity has been established between the local communities and those using this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u11	I see. Dear colleagues! As I was informed that you discussed this issue yesterday, we have yet to vote today and so let us vote and the results of the vote will show our attitude. Now. Sign up for five minutes. Sign up. Please, five minutes, Mikhailo Zyjenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u12	Please give it to Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u13	Please, Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully support this offer just made by my colleague Lazko. We have a similar situation in Lviv in Old Collegiate, where there are a few dozen oil wells, the earth is polluted. In the face of a problem, it is said to be serious that the region’s ecology and the region do not benefit from it at all. And indeed, due to appropriate legislation in the Supreme Council, we need to resolve this problem in some way so that the State can benefit from these objects, but the local authorities have many problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u15	Please, Basil Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u16	Basil Volga, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I actually, you know, have a lot of respect for opposition, especially when it's constructive. And in this case, something strange is coming out. On the one hand, the opposition demands that you give us more oil for free, give us more gas for free. And when we have oil and gas of our own extraction in Ukraine, we won't let you mine it, because I didn't get 72,000 bracelets in Skrnaft, so that I could give this apparatus to myself in the district, and I was re-elected as a national deputy. People are good, let's think stately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u17	Bertash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u19	And that's right, you haven't heard it in a while. Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u20	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! You know, last night at the evening meeting, we were really, really looking at this question. And Alexander Alexanderovich said there was no determination. The ruling yesterday was in Parliament, but the Supreme Council's apparatus, Adam Ivanovich, did not work, and we need to figure out why yesterday the apparatus did not reproduce the draft decree to the people's deputies. And that's why we couldn't finish it yesterday. So once again, I urge the people's deputies that the decisions of the district councils have been made and our agrarian committee has considered and supported this decision. And there is nothing further for the national deputies to believe in the lower levels of district councils and district councils. I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u21	Please, Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask the question that was then raised in the air, and we have not decided on September 21st whether there are local councils, and whether there are any priorities, or arrangements, but on paper for these local councils. Because other than wells, there is a career that is the same. Is it or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u23	Right. Yes, please, Michael's Timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I'd like to point out that this is not about the land that's in the village council, whether it's land-supply or land that's not being used. This is about the land that is scattered, and the state has absolutely nothing to do with it, on the one hand. But please tell me who really wants this bill, how agricultural land is transferred to the land of general use and then leased. What does a peasant get for this? And if anyone notices what's there, for three years it seems like a lease, which it seems to be when this land is owned by the owner already. That is why it is possible to do so, but not with such an approach. Please read this law carefully and think about voting first.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u25	It's not a law, it's a decree. Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, we are discussing, not the content of the decision, but a much broader issue, the conflict of interests between oil and gas and construction and local self-government. And this conflict needs to be resolved in a complex way, because any MP can give examples of how land resources are being used wrongly. And I can say that in the Volinsky region, the Lokachin gas field, which has recently been discovered and put into service, is of no use to local governments or residents. And at the last meeting, they said, "Well, it wouldn't be better if we didn't have that gas in our area, because we only have damage." So we're going to vote, obviously, in favour of the draft of this decision, but we ask that this issue be addressed more broadly and more comprehensively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will give you the answers that have been given, especially by Paul Sulkowski. The apparatus was not to blame, for no new decision had been made by the profile committee. The decision that we took as a basis, this decision is in our hands today and we have taken it as a basis, and the profiling committee has made no changes in this decision. That's why you had this decision. Another problem is that you may not have taken it with you, and that's it. Again, it's not my fault. This is one moment. This is one moment. I repeat, on September 21st we have adopted this decree as a basis and today we will vote in general. No changes were made to the September 21 ruling, so the draft decree is in effect. That's one option. Now, Mikhail Vasilovich. One second. Unfortunately, what happens to the apparatus is that you are only right about another matter. As you recall, on September 21st of this draft regulation, we voted in favour of the first paragraph on what has to do with the allocation of land for the location of Lviv Broda vehicles. Unfortunately, a decree was signed that we had voted only on the basis of this paragraph. So today we will have to vote again on this point. And the third. If you don't mind, I'm going to put this motion to the vote. In view of the fact that there are such proposals that each object should be voted on separately. Please, the Gladys microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I don't want to raise that question with regard to the draft resolution on yesterday. We passed the draft ruling yesterday morning, but in the Supreme Council's apparatus, those dealing with the issue made a mistake. They felt that this new decision was not necessary, old enough and confused. So, really, there's guilt in that, not a profile committee. The other one. I would ask the National Deputies to support the draft decree because it is written and adopted in accordance with the Earth Code and all the laws we have in the State. There is absolutely no violation, starting with the owner who rents or hands over to the user and ending up with the Cabinet of Ministers. Who has any doubts about any matter, please, to the Supreme Council Committee, are all the documents. Sadly, though, on September 21, no one came or considered the matter. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I understand that the earth is the most expensive, most important. Well, we've been discussing it for the third day. Okay, from factions to fractions one minute, please, and no one will ever ask again. Factions, please. Please, Moses Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u30	Adam Ivanovich, pass the word to Tomenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u31	Please, Michael Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the ideology of voting that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk proposed. But it's the wrong thing to do. How we work in a judge’s situation. Because a very large number of objects and we are about to vote for 30 minutes. Adam Ivanovich, for example, has already been named two objects. From the opposite. So those objects named in the warnings should be voted on separately. And the rest is to vote. If these objects do not pass, we shut them down. The rest without these objects are voted on as a whole. So we solved the conflicts and made the decisions more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u33	Please, Denis's Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u34	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give the deputy Lazko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u35	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u36	Baby!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u37	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'd like to refocus my colleagues on this problem. It's not about personal interests that someone wants to do to someone else and then become a deputy again. This is about the problems of the whole region. Earlier in the 31st article of the Nadra Code there was a situation when part of the Nadra pay remained in the local budgets. There's no such thing today. As a result, budgets are cut. Our job is to make sure that if Crohnafta or someone else is using this kind of drama to benefit the local communities so that they don't walk around with their hands stretched out in the Kiev offices and ask for copies when they themselves have the opportunity to have them. That's the problem. Thank you. Please, John Bondarchuk, the Socialist faction. Volga Vasile's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! You know, I'd particularly like to make sure that we don't pay much attention to the fact that our colleague in a sports suit is trying to tell some things that have nothing to do with legislation. And it would be very wrong if you and I adopted such a practice, according to which the committee of profile worked, to check the full volume of what and how this Supreme Council decree. You and I have ruled it out for the fact that we're coming to check on the committee. No one came. And now that the profile committee doesn't make any comments, we start doing it again, you know, smarter about fighting for the people. In fact, if you look at land legislation, I'm talking to a gentleman in a sports suit, looking at land legislation, you'll see how much the state gets out of it, and very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u40	Please, Zaklunna passes the word to Tachachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We literally spent two days in this room looking at changes to the Earth Codex. And then I watched them vote. 59 people supported the proposal to sell land and stopped for one year. The land, the private land, the land is being taken away from the uncles. At what price is it that they ask? In order for the oligarchs to have wells. So let's count these guys, this land is going to be gold. Now, please take the Cherkaskie region along Dashukowka. 119 hectares have been plundered by the land of the Ore Now again asked for 15 acres [15 ha] of oreland, the oreland of the Cherkas region. Who? Private enterprise. On what basis and on the basis of what will these uncles, 30 of whom, pay their pies at what price? Who Determined the Price? You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u42	Valery Matthew, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u43	Matthew Valeria, faction of Party of Regions. Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u44	Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! This is the third time we've asked this question. I think there's already a clear position for the committee to take a full-scale decision. I ask you to put this decision to a vote and let the Chamber determine. Various thoughts in Parliament have always been and will be at this Parliament, but there is a majority that should put the final point in this law. I ask you to put the committee's proposal to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u46	Thank you. All right, good fellows, let go of your hands. Prepare to vote. "Our Ukraine" had the opportunity to speak. She gave her word, that's your right. Dear colleagues, once again, there are not many lists here, there are four positions here, there are only four positions here – the position concerning the Lviv-Broda highway, the position regarding the open stockholder association “Dashutichiv Bentonites”. The third position is the “Ukranafta” wells and the fourth position is that of the Bogoduhov region of Kharkiv. So each of these positions we vote separately and we're going to be defined. Who's in favour of holding the vote separately, please vote. [[10:30:48.]] For 207 Not accepted. Then I make the whole decision. I'm making a whole decision. In general, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees to agree on the location of the objects and to change the purpose of the land use. Registration number 2149. [[10:31:22]] For 225 Not accepted. The factions, please. Region Party – 182, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 6, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialists – 31, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” – 4. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much: let's vote on each paragraph separately. Who's in favour of going back to the vote on the paragraphs, please vote. Vote. [[10:32:10]] For 298 We voted in favour of voting each paragraph of this decree separately. And so, once again, I remind you, dear colleagues, be careful: we have already voted, but unfortunately, we need to vote on the Lviv-Broda road. I'm betting on the vote: the allocation of areas for building the Lviv-Broda road. Please vote. [[10:33:00]] For 417 Thank you. Here you see, and we could bury this. Second: “Enhancement of the Bentonite clay career to the Open Shareholder Society “Dashuk’s Bentonites. ” This is the Lysican district of the Cherkas region. Please vote. [[10:33:35]] For 355 Copy that. “Operational wells and access to them to an open stock company called Ukrnafta. This is the land of the Sumu district. Please be sure. [[10:34:05]] For 224 So is the fourth position, and the fourth position: “According to changes in the target land use area of 0.17 ha, which is owned by Shahbazian’s citizen”. This is the Bogoduch district of Kharkiv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:40]] For 203 So, your honorary colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the whole decision and the areas that we've agreed on. It means the Lviv-Brody road, Lviv-Broddy road, and Dashuk's Bentonite. Please vote in general. [[10:35:19]] For 380 It's been decided. The factions, please. Region Party - 182, Block Timoshenko - 110, Our Ukraine - 53, Socialists - 30, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 5. Let us turn to the draft Law on Youth Housing. This is registration number 1074. But there's another alternative bill that we should include in the agenda. But before we know it, I'm asking you to turn on the Serbian microphone, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The question is: This law was not considered by the committee of profile. We're drafting a law like that on our committee. So I'm asking you not to put it in the agenda right now. I've already suggested to Filindash that if he has such an interest in the building industry, we will only support him, and let him join our committee and work with us. It is not possible for one committee and another to develop laws in parallel, but it is one. We're developing it, too. So I'm asking you to put it down and give it to our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u48	Please turn on Tomenko's microphone, because this is his committee. Mikola Tomenko, please take the position of your committee, because this law is behind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I think our colleague Serbin is a bit confused, he's talking about Law 2245, which is the law of Catherine Samuelk, who's scheduled for the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Committee on Construction. Indeed, this is an interesting idea in this law. But obviously these committees need to look at it, because there's a proposal to create a mortgage institution and change the tax system, we need to hear our colleagues. As for the Filindash bill under consideration, our committee considered it. Our committee is in charge, there's no construction, there's no procedure like youth loans. So the proposal of our committee is this bill by Eugene Filindash, to consider it, and Bill 2245 wait for the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u50	Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we are wasting our plenary precious time in vain. The point is that, according to part of article 47 of the Supreme Council's decision on draft laws, regulations, other acts of the Supreme Council, only issues included in the agenda of the Supreme Council are accepted before the opening of the plenary session. Therefore, we can include and consider only questions that are included as a minimum at the previous meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u52	Mikola Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u53	The faction “Our Ukraine” shares the approach now proposed by Nikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko regarding what laws can and cannot be considered today. In particular, we have also pointed out that our colleague Samuel's bill does not contain all the procedures envisaged by the Rules, let's say, procedures, that is, conclusions that are necessary for the consideration of the bill in the session room. As for the Filindash bill, it can be considered in the session room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u54	Yes, Ivan Bondarchuk. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I propose to support Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka and other colleagues who propose to consider the question, the bill introduced by Eugene Filindash, because there is no relation to essentially building problems. This is a bill that has a bearing on youth policy and that is why the opinion of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism is decisive and our faction supports this view.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u56	Yes, dear fellows, there was an exchange. You're all right. Although we have, you know, issues related, really, to the issue of providing young people with housing, it can be said equally that it has a bearing on the youth committee, in the same way that it has a bearing on the Committee on Construction, and in the same way it has a bearing on both the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Banks and Financial Activities, because all of these committees are interested in it anyway. But the designated profile committees, the Main Committees and the Main Committee, as it were, carried out this commission. But there was a proposal by the head of the Serbian Construction Committee to move the bills of 1074 and 2245 to the next plenary week. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[10:41:33]] For 172 It didn't work. So we're going to look at them the way they are. A draft law on the provision of shelter for young people. Registration number 1074. Tells Eugene Filindash, National MP, to prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, radio audiences, and television audiences! First of all, I would like to remind you that this sector of state policy, which is responsible for promoting the social development and development of young people in Ukraine, is being implemented, including the measures envisaged by the State Youth Support Programme 2004-2008 and the State Youth Housing Programme 2002-2012. One of the directions that's included in this program is housing for young people. And the bill is just about to solve this problem. First of all, I want to remind you of some numbers that relate to this problem. During the past ten years, the population of Ukraine has decreased by nearly 4.5 million and there has been a sharp decline in birth rates. Some 90,000 young families are now accounted for, and even more young families are simply not accounted for, even though they do need to improve living conditions because they do not see prospects for providing this problem. Of course, there is now a government programme to provide young people with housing, but it is very slow and at the current pace, when it is provided about a percentage, one and a half percent per year, of young people in need of housing, this problem can only be solved for 90 years. In addition, almost 17,000 borrowers who have received loans under a partial bank compensation program may be deceived by the interest rate of commercial banks. Already this year, the problem arose that these liabilities by the State were not being fulfilled to the borrowers because of the lack of necessary funds in the 2006 budget. I think that no one, even the Fund's active representatives, can deny that the current system does not really allow housing to be made accessible, especially for middle-income and low-income young people. Systematic changes in legislation are therefore needed. Especially considering the fact that the program has been in existence since 98, unfortunately, it is still virtually unregulated. Because there is only one article in the Law on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine, which is dedicated to this, the Law that regulates it does not exist systematically. That's why I actually proposed such a law. And I'd like to stop at the core money that exists in it compared to the operating system, so that we can get a better sense of what's proposed in this bill. First. At the beginning of 2006, the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing does not work entirely in the legal field without complying with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets. Because he does not have a financial service license, a certificate of registration by financial institutions, or a government register of financial institutions. Without a clearly defined status under existing legislation, the fund is maintained at the same time at the expense of government and local budgets. The bill proposes the creation of a state-owned, non-profit financial institution with a special status of the State Fund for Youth Housing Credit subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. Perhaps by reorganizing an active state fund to promote youth housing. The bill provides for the formation of a statutory capital fund at the expense of a special state budget fund, which is the cost of repaying previously granted loans, which will enable the fund to work effectively in the legal field. The other one. By order of the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine has today changed the priorities for granting housing loans and, above all, for families with children. The current rating, the criteria for the selection of candidates for borrowers, according to which the lowest score is for one child, does not guarantee families with one and two children the primary right to receive credit. The bill that is proposed provides that the granting of State aid, or the acquisition of housing, or targeted housing subsidy, shall be determined according to the orderliness of the legislation already in force and taking into account the time from which young families and citizens are accounted for in the regional offices of the fund. That is, transparency will be achieved, and clear criteria will be set for lending to young families and citizens. Third. The current partial repayment mechanism does not respond to credit from commercial banks; it is not provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine. And in order to fully meet the commitments of only those made last year by the State Foundation for the Promotion of Youth Housing, out of 17,000 young families, about 1 billion is required. The amount of the budget that will make up for the assets of commercial banks as revenue. So this mechanism was a time-consuming attempt to solve this problem, and at some point it was performing its function, and at this point, we think it's inefficient and extremely stressful for the State Budget. That's why we're proposing three mechanisms for lending young Ukrainian citizens to choose their own citizens. The first is the granting of subsidised long-term state loans for the construction and housing of young families and single young citizens. The second is the provision of targeted targeted subsidies for partial repayment of loans and the first contribution of borrowers to the construction and acquisition of housing. And the third. Loans for the construction, reconstruction and acquisition of housing for young families and single young citizens through the introduction of special housing and storage accounts for young citizens in banks. Four. The law provides that the formation of financial resources for the granting of the above-mentioned credits and subsidies shall be carried out at the expense of the public and local budgets provided for in the year in question at least 0.5 per cent of the total expenditure of the budget. This number is not taken from the ceiling. This figure is calculated on the basis of the number of young families in line for housing, the projected amount of funding for the current State Programme on Youth Housing by 2012 and the estimated cost of housing. Moreover, I would like to point out that, as early as 1999, the Ukrainian President's order to promote the development of youth housing, which no one has cancelled, is a formal order, the Cabinet of Ministers has been entrusted with the development of Ukraine's 2001 State Budget and for the next 10 years to provide funds for the granting of mortgage loans to young people for housing at least 3 per cent of the budget expenditure. So the proposed bill doesn't increase this number, and we're taking into account the budget's limited capabilities and we're even reducing it a little bit. But we want this figure to become real and greater than it is right now. 5. The Monitoring Board of the Fund does not provide clear and effective control over the use of budgetary resources, as evidenced by the various audits carried out by the General Audit Office, the Court of Auditors and other bodies. The bill provides for control of the activities of the State Youth Housing Fund, both by the Cabinet and by the Supreme Council, and mainly by young people through youth social organizations through the membership of various youth social organizations. the Fund's observation boards. The number of candidates to borrowers, to which complaints are now quite common, will also be controlled, including by public organizations. And there's an order for this information to be published through the Internet, through the media, to really track the order in which these funds are used and the order in which they are used. That is, the work of the newly created fund is transparent. And finally, sixth. The current lending system allows the same person to receive two types of government support. And the mortgage, and the partial compensation. The bill provides that a loan or subsidy is granted to young families and single young citizens only once. To ensure that there is no abuse, those young citizens who really need it are able to obtain it, not those who are able to arrange it. With the adoption of the law, it is expected to expand the scope of youth housing and improve the system of providing affordable loans to young families to build and acquire housing that will contribute to the birth of children and the improvement of the demographic situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u58	Please sign up for the question. Please, according to the Rules, 5 minutes. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u59	Dear reporter, please tell me, do you not think that in principle the legislative initiative that you have proposed, like all legislative acts that regulate the issues you have raised, does not reflect in principle the changes that are changing in the housing market daily, to a great extent? Because of this, perhaps even at heart by supporting what you're proposing, but don't you think you need to change the strategy in general with regard to housing lending? What we're offering so far, it's out of date, it's out of date. Should we simply adopt a better world experience rather than polish, try to adapt to what we have done? And it's like, you know, it's trying to apply all the time, but it doesn't have anything to do with what's going on every day -- this constant trending change in numbers, the order of numbers in the housing market in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Of course, I agree with you that the problem is much broader, and here we need to look at the problem of housing in general, not just young people. Indeed, a national strategy is essential in this regard. But I think we need to solve the problems at the moment, the problems of those citizens that can be solved at the moment. So if there's some sort of mechanism that works for young people's housing, it just needs to be reorganized, greatly improved, strengthened, and precisely in order to bring it to today's realities that have changed compared to 1998 when this program started. And at that point it was certainly a progressive program, but some approaches, really, as you pointed out, are outdated. And for this very purpose of modernizing it and achieving a more important result, I've proposed this bill, because it can't be that important for young people, it's not that important for young people, it's that there are very few programs that apply to young people, in my opinion. It cannot exist without the law as it has existed for eight years. So this is an attempt to regulate this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u61	Please, Rybub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleague! I am truly grateful for the great work that has been done on this bill. It's very important. And working in the local administration, I personally felt, when just, well, a lot of people and young people, their parents are coming out of these security issues, and you're just powerless, there's nothing you can do. Problem with problems. But what I'm looking at is that it's resisting again, and this draft law, in a budget where funding is not consistent with the draft budget and so on. And that's where we're all afraid. That he won't be accepted. How do you see, if we are now in the process of shaping the budget process, we are going to solve the maximum cost issues, and then, together with the Law on Promoting Social Development and Development, young Ukraine to work on and deliver it to vote for real? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u63	Thank you for asking and for supporting, at least, the very idea of the need for such a law. You know, about funding. Well, first of all, I hope that this figure that we're proposing, half a percent, is already going to be in this draft budget, because this proposal was at least made by a committee of profilers, and a faction of socialists gave me what I represent. I hope this will be taken into account, especially since, again, I repeat, it is not taken from the ceiling. This is a figure based on the indicators of the State's own youth housing programme, which has been in operation since 2002 and is planned for the period until 2012. So the number proposed here, it corresponds to this program, and it's based on the ability to actually at least six or seven years to provide housing for those young people who are in line right now. I mean, it's, in my opinion, real and cloudless. Why do we propose to set half a percent in the budget by precedent? We have a precedent, you know, in the law and education, where it's supposed that 10 percent should go to education at least, and there is, I mentioned in the speech, the President's order -- the current 99th year, which also provides a percentage of the allocated funds. So we didn't invent a bicycle, and for the sake of stability, so that, including the local authorities, we can count on future funding, we suggest that we set that number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u64	Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u65	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u66	Lilia Grigorovitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u67	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." There is no doubt that the first job and livelihood of young people is the key to success not only in Ukraine, but in any country. And that's why your idea of a bill deserves all the support. At the same time, the question of the next generation. It's not a secret that Ukraine's budget is about two budgets, like Seattle. And in view of that, I'd like to know how step-by-step or time-by-step you're going to do the task that's set out in your bill, and whether really, I agree with the question of the previous National MP, do you really disagree with what would be a more modern system of funding for young people's construction? For example, a youth mortgage, where the mortgage is nothing more than a demographic increase offered by a young family, giving birth to children.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u68	Please take a look at your card, Lilia Stepanovna. Something.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. Well, I can say again, I've partly already answered this question that we can foresee a completely new funding mechanism for this program, but in my opinion, when there is now a mechanism that provides for at least a little, but still in scope, we can and should upgrade and improve the existing mechanism, systematize and incorporate it into the maximum legal framework. And the transition to the system that they said was also possible and necessary, but by the time it happens, it could take two or three years, and many of those who are going to, for example, give birth without having to solve the housing problem might change their mind. Yes, for these years the closest, at least, we believe that this mechanism needs to be improved and implemented. This is absolutely not contrary to the need to develop a new mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Mikola Tomenko, as he prepares, one minute, we'll sign up for the performance, and then you'll get the word. Please sign up for a faction discussion. Please, it's from the deputies. Yeah, let's take 30 minutes to discuss the issue, and before we discuss it, I'll give the floor to Sasu's proposals. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to understand the essence of the problem we're in. All the national MPs who are taking the initiative to make a clear, transparent system of youth lending, all MPs are acting or acting in an entirely appropriate manner. There is no conflict here, and I would not like to discuss some legislation that, for the people of the bill, is one against the people. All, absolutely, motivated by the need to put order in the matter. What's the problem? Today, the idea of youth lending was actually about stimulating some commercial banks. So the procedure is done in such a way that banks, through the system of work itself, like operators actually don't invest anything, they only get interest from the state budget for what they are actually doing by financial operators. That's the first problem. The second problem, the distribution process itself and the identification of the young families that get these apartments is wrong, because when this project came about, it was an idea of what? Help young families who have children And the key theme was that. At some point this approach changed and began to be shared there: an active person, a sportsman, a scientific man. You know, in Ukraine, once they divide by that principle, there's corruption, because it's necessary that it's clearly and clearly formulated so that the official doesn't define but act on these regulations. That's why. It is suggested that the bill, in fact, is the first step towards solving the problem. So to understand and build a transparent system: a, distribution of these loans, bringing them to specific families, computing and not now. We receive hundreds of letters, young families taking credit and having enough interest, not getting credit back on time, for about 10 months or a year. There's nothing to pay them. This could lead to such a youthful Elite Center, what then? Put all your possessions in this system? So our approach was this, we have some warnings about this bill, but if we don't start solving the problem today, we can face enough serious conflict when we now have hundreds of young families to start judging either the government or the fund, or God knows who they signed this agreement with, and the state doesn't perform its duties in this part. As far as such a strategic goal is concerned, the problem of a government mortgage must be addressed in general, too. And we talked about it. But to do it in parallel. So this is our approach. We need to accept the first reading and start work so that what is already working has to work openly, transparently, responsibly, and that the State has to complete its duties. Let's think about how to change this system more perfectly. And what Catherine Semenovna is proposing is the right idea to think about how to work more broadly in the state mortgage system. But once again, I want to say that it doesn't bother each other. Here we settle the problem given by the budget of the allocated funds, where we settle the problem of a wider problem, which provides for a change in the tax system, something else. If you look today at the conclusion of the Court of Auditors on this state programme, we, I don't know, how the Prosecutor's Office is there, it's less interesting for us, and we, as a parliament, have to respond to this story. So raising this question by our committee is not just a response to the letters of the young families, but a response to the activities of the Court of Auditors, which says today that in fact the issue of youth credit is completely unrelated to the social situation of the young family. A wealthy young family who owns another one who owns the land may get it because it is not a rule that only those who are in the household are necessarily in line. So we need to go back to the program that we've been thinking about, is supporting the social support of the young families who are standing on the apartment, and they don't have the opportunity to get this housing. To think about the system through the observation board, how every decision is controlled by Parliament, public organizations and government. And then think about how to make this program bigger than just to put a few hundred apartments there, as it is today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u72	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Bogchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u73	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party. May I have a word with Mendus?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u74	Jaroslav Mendoza, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u75	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, please tell us what you think the system of state control over spending on this very important and promising area should be so that, for example, the loud scandals that have crept into the pages of the media about the activities of the Youth Housing Fund have not been repeated in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u76	I think that the idea proposed by this bill, to a large extent, does not fully address the issue, i.e. the observable council, which is formed by different and, I would say, by competing institutions, these are youth social organizations that are interested in honesty and transparency, which are delegated by Parliament to people delegated by the government. The representatives and the observation board are already an instrument, as it were, of this sieve. Of course, only the House of Accounts was now in operation. Obviously, the Cabinet itself should be more active, and the Ministry should be more active in terms of testing this work, but this is one of the main warnings of the Science-Expert Office that comes down to this, and here the colleagues are saying in terms of the towers that this could have been made by the Cabinet of Ministers. For example, to regulate control mechanisms for this matter. Our approach is that, as the Cabinet of Ministers will do, thank God, while there is no such thing, it is better for any Cabinet of Ministers to know that this monitoring board and other mechanisms of control should be required. So I think that this solution proposed in the law is a certain step forward to ensure that money is controlled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u77	Yuri Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u78	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, it's a good idea. A., please ask that question. What kind of housing we plan to give to young people: social, accessible to make it real to young people. Is that the total area of commercial housing that is now?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u79	Well, unfortunately, dear colleagues, unfortunately, we can't afford to be socially unavailable, because we haven't finally distributed our housing and it's up to Parliament to determine how and what we're building and how this housing is shared. When we talk about the benefits of national deputies, we will return to this story of service and other housing. Sadly, our legislation today has brought the construction system into one category. And I'm absolutely convinced that we have to build, like, this whole story, so that there's social housing and so on. It is clear that budget spending is not the most expensive and expensive to buy an apartment in the market. By spirit, it should be social housing, by spirit, because the legislation did not regulate. So I think it's about the social housing that makes it possible, once again, for a young family with a socially low supplement and a large number of children to get this housing. I mean, of course we have to settle for social housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u80	Thank you. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues! As I was speaking from procedural questions, please, Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich! I wanted to point out that according to article 33, part one, of the Rules, the recording of a statement from the rostrum is made after the chairman’s announcement on the question, not after the interviewer and the coreporter spoke. But that's not what I'm talking about. The point is that according to part two of article 32 of the Rules, time is allocated for questions and answers within one minute. We tend to have time to ask questions, and time to answer is not regulated, and thus abuse the one who answers questions takes all the time away from those national MPs who want to ask questions. I'm asking you to assign the appropriate services to keep them busy, to include a timer for answering, to ensure the right of the national MPs to ask more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Indeed, we are in this Rules, and Sergey Volodymyrovic, one of the co-authors of the Rules Bill, has taken into account such a rule that the time to answer questions is also one minute. So I'm going to turn to the "Council" system, see if we can regulate the answer to the interviewors in the same way as the questions to them. Yes, please, we've arranged 30 minutes to discuss. Bondarchuk Ivan, a faction of socialists. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Our faction proposes to support the bill proposed in the first reading and prepare it for the second reading. There is no need to remind yourself of the acuteness of the problem. Rybuk’s colleague here rightly celebrated as the former head of the general government, how long he had to take to resolve these issues. As a former deputy head of the district government, I also had to deal with these issues practically every day. And here we are, who understands the acuteity of the problem in abstract terms, and specifically, dozens in this room. After all, the system of provision for young professionals is the first to operate in Soviet times to be destroyed. And today, the state support of young people, young families, first of all, in creating adequate housing, is virtually absent. So it's done by introducing this bill, a concrete step towards providing the system itself, I stress, a systematic approach to addressing the problem of youth housing. First of all, those families who are on the line, who are unable to buy this house in the normal order. There's definitely a whole series of comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They have to be accounted for. We're going to have to look for financial resources, etc. There were strong comments in the process of questioning and in fact discussions. But let's take the first step, and then we'll improve this document in the process of preparing it for the second reading. And by our vote, we show that not only do we care about our change but we also confirm it in practice, that we want to take this issue seriously. Today the principle is not in force that “with a nice and in a fool’s paradise”. If we want to break up in a demographic situation, including if we want to have strong families, and according to statistics, every young family falls apart in the first year of marriage, the main reason being the lack of adequate housing. If we are to have a strong family and thus a strong state, we need to help young families get housing, make this home accessible to them. Once again, we are giving green light today to the solution of this problem by voting in favour of the draft in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Yuri Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u85	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs. I hope that the elderly can hear us today, and young people and all that Ukrainian society, from which it has long been no secret that, at the worst times, in an inadequate social, economic situation in Ukraine in 2030, the demographic situation can be catastrophic, because the forecast is much less than 40 million. Citizens. So any measures, any means, measures for lending youth housing, for preference for young families, are certainly those that can be taken not only to national interests but to the category of national security. Such is the position of “Our Ukraine”, the faction of “Our Ukraine”, the party “Our Ukraine”, such is the position of the President of Ukraine. In view of this, I would like to point out that we certainly support the idea of this bill. At a time when China is taking steps to curb birth, because they have such a demographic situation, we certainly have to do everything we can to ensure that our worst demographic projections do not come true. In view of this, the idea of the bill is certainly to be approved. But today, in the course of the discussion, we found that Ukraine’s budget is very and very different from that of Ukraine, where there are 47 million. Citizens of the same France. It's less than actually Luxembourg's budget. And in view of that, it's a matter of mechanism. And so by supporting the idea of the bill in the first reading, we certainly support all the observations made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. So it seems to us that the task of the second reading is to develop the following items: (a) Mechanisms that will give effect to non-implementation, not the simple declaration of ideas, but the implementation of this bill, let even the phased one; (b) The mechanism for transparency of all these procedures; (c) Modernization of housing lending for young families. “Our Ukraine” supports the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u86	Please, Yuri Serbin, faction of the "Timoshenko Block". Prepare Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u87	Of course, and there are no contradictions in the room that the idea is very good. The only thing that needs to be done is to make this law real and work. What needs to be worked out in this law. 1. What kind of young people do we give social housing or affordable housing to young people? Because the size of this apartment is very different in the area and in the other amount of work that needs to be done there and therefore completely different amounts of funding. That's the first question. The second issue that needs to be taken into account in this law. How will we deal with rural youth and rural intelligence? There must be completely different approaches to make it real. So I can say from the committee that we support this idea, that in the first call of the mandatory one, we have to accept it. But we also need to work with our professional requirements. Besides, in this apartment that we're building, it can't be a bad place or low quality housing. But in order to make this housing truly possible, and people are able to calculate, we also need to make changes to the order in which money is counted into local budgets. That's what the committee's doing. If we take these three questions into account, I think the law will make it real. Therefore, the offer is to support it in the first reading. And a request to all colleagues. I'm sorry. I respect you all. But to her, to God, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build, to And when you take the initiative to write the laws on this subject, contact the profiling committee. Then it will be easier to pass. Because we don't mind. We're just going to add what it takes to make it real, not just slogans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u88	Thank you. You have the absolute right, Yuri Sergiyovich, to the second reading really make your proposals. That's the right thing to do. Please, Pinchuk, Party of Regions. Get ready, Ponomarenko, it's Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u89	Pinchuk, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues! Today we hear a very important question, perhaps the most important question for young people in Ukraine. The main idea of implementing state youth policies can be formulated in such a way that every young person should have a level playing field for a successful start in life. It's also a high-quality education, and a first job, and, in fact, a home of its own. The problem of housing for young people is the problem in the front row. There'll be housing, there'll be work, there'll be normal life. Whether there are real mechanisms to solve this issue. It's really been working since the year 98. It's really going to help. But unfortunately, at the moment, in my opinion, the fund and this system of lending and interest compensation by a commercial bank, it's kind of deadlocked. And now they have to reform this direction. And I fully agree with tomorrow's bill on what needs to be done and on what needs to be done more transparently. It's going to take as much as possible to provide loans, where more young people are, because very little of them are now using these benefits. And a lot bigger at the moment can't go near them and get them. So, let's say that, in my opinion, the question of actually increasing and financing this direction has to be solved. And not only at the state budget level, but also at the local budget level. Because in some, we know that there is a proportional allocation of funds from the government budget if the local budget, for example, there, Odessa has allocated a million dollars and a million is allocated from the state budget or two. And if there are 100,000 in another city, the same amount is allocated from the state, although local budgets may be the same at full. So there are a lot of problems. And, frankly, the question of, really, the housing market. To hold on and constantly, let's say, to reform as the housing market is rapidly changing, it's impossible, prices are rising and rising. Here, in fact, there must be some way that state support is also needed so that the profitability of 300 percent there does not hinder and enable young people to receive housing. So in general, I want to say. That the idea of reform is fully supported and, indeed, the renewal of work in this direction. I just want to say there's a lot of problems. And what I want is for this law to be more generalized and solve as many problems as possible with a single moss, to adopt the law so that it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u91	I'm here with my colleague, Serbian, and I want him to hear me, and not only did he hear me, but I'm here with the Committee on Banks and Finance, because this problem is not just one committee, it's a bigger problem. And I was on the Conciliation Council, and I offered to wait and consider in a week both of these bills, which I'm going to ask you to put into the agenda. Regrettably, political relevance has overcome the point of just being useful. Today, we face such questions. I'm in favour of having both the bill and the bill accepted. But we need to be honest with you today. For 8 years, there is a program to provide young people with housing. Moreover, the government program is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And over the course of eight years, 447 million people have been involved in the budget of various levels. That's right. Please tell me you can build on these costs? And so, of course, I would suggest to all of us today that we put into the order of the day and another question, a question, because I, as the person who has dealt with this problem, not in the stickers, but in the legislation, in the budgetary process, I know that the state today, in the form that is being proposed, will not solve this problem. Today, we need to look for extra-budgetary funds. If we don't solve these issues, we can't do anything with you. And that's why I agree with the bill, but I want us to take a closer look at this bill. I'd like us to go back to him and look at everything -- and credit. You don't have to blame the fund for not having any partial compensation. We should thank Pinzenic for putting our young people on the brink of selling everything in the world and taking these loans. So we don't mess up yet. We have a credit scheme, we have a partial compensation. We offer other forms of non-budgetary participation to implement this program. I would like, honourable colleagues, not for the sake of the political galore today, but for the benefit of this bill, and for such a situation to exist, to be really "Elita Centre" plus for young people to be no more. And that's why I'm proposing to put it in the agenda and that's either the question or the next week to consider both.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Vasil Bogchuk. Get Danilina ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u93	Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! It is pleasant today that the entire political spectrum of our hall is concerned about solving this problem. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, after discussing this issue, supports it and believes that today it is one of the main problems of our youth, the most acute youth problem that needs to be addressed without delay. And if the reporter called the figure that's 90 grand in line today, I don't think that's quite right. Today, millions of young families need our support, and they need support in solving the housing problem. And most of our young, young families who went abroad to look for work, in search of perspective, went out with one goal: to make money to solve the housing problem here, first of all. The government’s housing program, which is in operation today, will never solve this problem, and young people do not believe in it. Because there's a lack of access to housing, and it's not a social housing, it's not what our young people need today. We need to change the funding mechanism for these programs today, because lending needs to be done openly, democratically and transparently. There is also a need to change the criteria for determining how much time it takes for young people to get housing loans because today, who bring more help, they are higher in youth. I believe that the State must take responsibility for ensuring a just solution to this problem. Today, there is also a need for a system of state control. Here the Monitoring Council should be formed as representatives of the financial bodies, the Court of Auditors, one representative at a time, I think it should be from youth organizations, by a representative of the political forces present in our Parliament. State control must be exercised both in setting up a housing queue and in granting benefits, loans, and subsidies. Only somewhere will this issue be resolved will we be able to bring our young people back, our young families from outside Ukraine, give us an opportunity to increase birth rates, and only in this matter can we allow young people to have confidence in their future. And to do that, we need to set up all the costs, both budgetary and non-budgetary. Only in unity is force and the question solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u94	And that's right. True, there are hundreds of youth organizations, so you will not include them all. Danielne Mikola, please. Kuzmenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Danilin Nikolai, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to say that, for the first time in this room, the problem of youth housing is becoming more specific and is being introduced within the framework that will allow this Act to be framed and tackled all the problems that we have today with lending youth housing and providing young people with housing. I would also like to point out that this is not a political problem, but a practical one. To date, the adoption of this Act will preserve our young talents and creativity, and the technical ones that will be involved when it is said that this Act will require additional, additional funding for the budget, which is the task of young people, its momentum and will contribute to the introduction of new technologies. The bright youth minds will remain in Ukraine and work on the implementation, improvement and, above all, our science, technology, practices, business reform and thus fill the problem, and this problem will, in two ways, improve the well-being of all people and, above all, of young people. Now, what I want to say is, unfortunately, was that there was an attempt today to introduce another bill. In principle, the faction of the Socialist Party does not object at all to the consideration of all other projects. But today we see a practical solution to this problem in order to adopt the Evgenia Vasilevich Filindash bill as a basis for first reading. And later, within the committee, all the other bills and proposals from the various committees could be finalized and reviewed, thus filling in the nuances that exist in the bill. I therefore call upon all of you, colleagues, to support this bill, which will indeed be a practical step towards the realization of our youth's housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u96	Sergey Kuzmenko, please. To prepare Knyazevitch, Gerasimük delivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to pause at a few points that I think are very important in making a decision on the future fate of this bill. First of all, I think that young people are tired of listening to our assurance that it is the future of the country, that we care about it, that we don't sleep there at night and think about it. We need to do more than just shake the air with all these phrases, and we need to do something specific. And it's my colleague's bill, both by faction and by Eugenia Filindash's party, that is one of the steps, concrete steps that will enable young people to believe that the government of the country is thinking about it. I think that this bill, even taking into account all that was said at his address, and critical, including, deserves to be accepted in the first reading. There are still bills on this subject that are absolutely free from making such a decision, because the committee in the process of processing for second reading, we can do a second reading again if necessary, take into account all the suggestions, the right suggestions that will be. It seems to me that the statement by the Head of the Serbian Construction Committee is quite clear about the state of legislation on the subject. My colleague, Sirbin, expressed his view of Bill 2245, the Bill of Catherine Samuel, which is now being proposed to us to put it in order of the day. It seems to me that from a procedural point of view, a bill that was registered on October 2, this year, October 6, physically cannot be put into the agenda, because none of the committees has worked on it, the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority do not exist and now say that, let's take a look at it today, well, it's disrespect for the professional committees. I'd like to put a stop to such a vital detail as the observation of the Science and Technology Administration. I'm sorry. At some points, they're completely superficial. Well, for example, there's a note that it seems that a person can get both a grant and a loan at the same time, but the 11th article clearly says the project, or the loan, or the grant, and it's only given 1 time. There are also a few similar observations, such as regarding the checking of the Court of Auditors. I'll let you know that there was room for such a test.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Follow him, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, well, obviously everyone in this room understands very well that at the moment there has really been a very difficult situation around housing in our country in general and, above all, what concerns the most vulnerable social types of the population. Thus, the State does not exercise its primary social function, provided for in this part of the 47th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that vulnerable, socially vulnerable people are obliged by the State to grant free of charge or under the tax conditions or by the State or by the authorities of self - government adequate housing. But it's too bad, there's no way to buy housing, there's no way to borrow it, and then there's no way to pay off the loans. For young people who seem to be the most vulnerable social type of the population, it's impossible. And now there's a situation where hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian young families and unmarried young people just don't see any prospect of getting housing or even maybe getting it on loan. That's what helps me, in some way, to make the demographic situation worse by criminalizing society and even homelessness. Thus, this legislative initiative is nothing less than how it actually affects development and comes out of the development of article 47 of the Constitution and aims to reduce social tension and perhaps even increase the well - being of the population. But when I asked the bill's author, I was totally aware that the bill's author was a young person, and that's very important, because first of all, a young person probably understands the troubles and problems that are among young people. And it doesn't matter which committee it represents whether it's profiled or not. The other thing is that my question was that this bill, the great regret that that whole layer of legislation that was before this, and this is the law on promoting the social development of young people in Ukraine, Mr. Eugene knows this very well, and those government decrees that were coming out of it to implement this law, because in fact, the time-consuming debt lending is in these laws, the law is about the law, and the law is already in law. The same applies to targeted targeted subsidies and housing funds, but virtually nothing is resolved. And even if this law may even duplicate or reproduce certain norms of these laws, and sometimes even conflict with them, in the part where it says that if you have four children or more, the state pays 70 percent for loans, while the law on social promotion. The young talk about 50 percent. I'm talking about, honourable colleagues, which I'm very sorry for, I think this law only decides one thing, a change in the owner of the youth housing fund. Mr. Eugene, it seems to me that it is young people in the Ministry of Youth, Family and Sports who are concerned about these problems and are able to resolve this issue. If we hand him over for a ransom to Kabmin, the same fund was already in Kabmin, and we know what abuses were around this fund. You can't do that. Give them a chance to work. Yes, these are the first steps. They may still be incompetent and somewhat contradictory. But they have a perspective, because they really, deeply see this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u100	Thank you. There's no easy way out. The word does not receive. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! The law under consideration today is actually an element, one of the elements of government youth policy. And we just have to figure out if we have this state youth policy. In my opinion, for today, we can say that there is no strategic government youth policy in Ukraine. And only today should we form and build elements of this policy. One of the most important elements of this policy is legislation to provide young people with housing. Dear National MPs, we are today either adopting legislation that improves the effectiveness of youth housing, or we need to make it more difficult for young people to go abroad. Either one or the other, we don't have another. And we know the moods of young people who don't find their place in Ukrainian society. So today no one is going to argue, no one today is saying that it's a problem that doesn't matter, that it's irrelevant. It's important, it's relevant, and today it's very sharp. It's also very sharp today because the legislation that exists today, and the foundation that works today, is actually working ineffectively. And we're actually talking in the 2007 budget about the repayment of debts that were accumulated in 2006 in terms of the implementation of young people's housing. The second question. Transparency problem. Indeed, there was a series of scandals that involved an untransparent, ineffective use of those small, perhaps destructively small, funds allocated for these purposes. So this bill answers this question and increases the transparency of this process. What else can be said? We're talking a lot about what we need to do more in a broader sense. Maybe we should, but if we start with a problem and start with global heights, unfortunately, it hasn't been solved for years. And even today, I say again, there are many questions. That is why the Law needs to be adopted today in the matter of providing for young people. And the flaws that are in this bill, we can work them out between the first and the second readings and all the remarks we can take into account here. Tom, I ask you to support this bill, as decided by the Committee on Youth, Family, Sport, and Tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Youth Housing. Registration number 1074, first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:42:11]] For-187 Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The factions? Please. Region Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 100, “Our Ukraine” - 55, Socialist - 31, Communist - 0, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal from the Chief Research Administration, and I think we'll do the right thing if we don't lose this law, so we're going to make a decision to put it into processing. Let's support this proposal. [[11:43:00]] For 389 Decision taken. So let both the author and the committee look at it, and we'll look at it again. Now, please. Now, please, we need to include in the agenda the Draft Law on State Support for Housing for Youth and Budget Workers, registration number 2245. Please vote. No, no. Dear colleagues, about getting in the daytime. [[11:43:44]] For the 18th. Not turned on. Come on. Once again, dear colleagues, this is Sergey Volodymyrovich asking, once again, I am clear about the inclusion in the agenda, but without consideration. I didn't say we were just talking about joining the agenda. We'll consider it when we reach the conclusion of the Dusty Committee. Who's in charge of putting it into the agenda, please vote. [[11:44:25]] For 201 Not accepted. Yes. We need to consider two short-term laws. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote, to support the proposal that the next two bills be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:44:58]] For 237 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. We've got 15 minutes left, maybe let's work without interruptions, so let's finish these two questions, move on to the "Variance" and we'll be done before. Is there any objection? What's with the factions? The factions? Show by factions who voted in favour. Region Party – 178, “Block Timoshenko” – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 2, socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 3. But, dear fellows, you have all these things on your remotes. If you want, you can look at it any time. Yeah, let's go. What, Sergey Volodymyrovich? Sass, please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to clarify the following thing. Regarding the previous bill, where we made our decision. In accordance with article 109, the first reading results in a decision being made – the aim of reworking the author or the re-reading of the first reading. These are two different decisions. So please specify what we voted on? Of yours, you didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u104	For processing. I mean, the author, but the committee has to join. No, I mean, the committee isn't going to report, it's going to report back. Yes, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on the organization of activities and the cancellation of benefits is being considered. Here are the registration numbers 1058, 1058-2. Please, Sleepy Boris. Prepare Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy are necessary because, first of all, it contains rules that conflict with other acts of law. And secondly, standards that prevent us from working properly. According to 36 paragraphs of the bill, the bill that is proposed to your mind, much of it is devoted to correcting inadequacies, contradictions, correcting errors. Even so, we are doomed to accept it as a foundation. Next. In determining the status of a national MP, everything is for effective work, nothing for barbarism. The social and household needs of active and former deputies must be addressed through high wages and pensions. They're already installed. So I called the bell on behalf of the MPs and the privileges. Then a number of suggestions apply to the abolition of benefits and privileges that are not justified from a social or financial standpoint or from a moral point of view. Their abolition will not only be an act of social justice but also a review of the benefits for other high - income workers. Because just refusing to pay your own benefits will give parliamentarians the moral right to do so. For the sake of clarity. List of benefits proposed to cancel. First. Free travel of MPs in urban transport. I'm not even commenting. The other one. Preservation of a member of the previous job or giving work an equivalent job. This is a rule I have been rudimentary since when practically the only employer was a state that gave everyone a job including the MP. But now for five years to keep a job or a temporary employee, is that an excessive burden for employers regardless of the form of ownership? Raised the MPs on their heads. I'm not talking about election and management positions anymore, including the minister's. How can we ensure a return? But what's more, it's not that, it's that the official forecast is offensive to the MP. Convinced, the electoral lists were included and became MPs, not the worst, but the best, for who would vote for the job or the loser? And it's five years from now, we're not going to be taken to work voluntarily and with the first rank and with the first category of public service assigned to all deputies after the end of our term of office. Third. It is proposed that the unemployment relief scheme be abolished for the postpartum period. Once this standard is repealed, the former MP will not be without help, but he will receive it on a general basis. That's fair. Four. Now, there's material assistance to the deputy's recovery of two months' wages. One is proposed, as it is for most budgeters. Fifth. It is proposed to remove the indignant standard of paying 12 months’ wages to deputies when they retire. It's not clear for this thousand over 200,000. Six. It is not clear why a senior pensioner is available once a year, but it is free. This is the remainder of the time when MPs worked in public ambushes or received a salary and a pension. Seven. It is proposed to remove the right of deputies to study in paid educational institutions at the expense of the Supreme Council, read by tax payers. Next. Similarly, it is suggested that the right to travel free of charge be removed. Once this rule has been repealed, it will remain free of charge or indemnity, as it is for all other citizens, for those who have the right to do so regardless of their membership, that is, because of sickness or disability. Eight. In principle, housing issues for deputies should be resolved on general grounds, especially in Kiev, where the housing line was extended for 30 years. The MP's salary allows you to take down an apartment or buy it. Yet this call has already formed a residential turn, and the law cannot have reverse force. So I propose to activate this standard, starting with the Supreme Council, the next call, so that the candidates know in advance that the MP's mandate is not an apartment warrant. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to cancel a few other nonessential benefits that I no longer have time for. That's enough. And I would like to stress, by voting for this bill, we have to answer the question: Who are the Ukrainian national deputies? A national elite or a socially vulnerable category that needs social care? Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u106	Thank you. So, please, Bill 1058-2. Timoshenko reports Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, interesting, I think, both for society and for the MPs themselves, we are experiencing a moment today. In fact, we're going to be going through a test today, whether we're able to start with ourselves, whether we're able to cancel the benefits to the national MPs first, and then move on, because we have the benefits of government officials all over the country. And that's why we have the effect today in society that most people in the country are living as an attack, just because all the officials, all the levelers, have long built themselves the communism that one party in parliament so long dreamed of. And that's why I don't think there's any benefit left for the national MPs at all. Each benefit that remains virtually separates the national MPs from the people who voted for them. And that's why I agree with part of the bill that Boris Bespali just announced. It is certainly necessary to record free of charge the right to treat, and free of charge the right to travel anywhere by transport, and exclusively business class. And maybe cancel those and monthly benefits, because the deputy's salary is such that we also need monthly health care, treatment for us, family, and cancellation. It's totally unnecessary. But separately, I would like to say a few words about housing. And by the way, we don't share the position of the previous reporter, that's right, let's give the House to the deputies on general grounds, it's meant, like the people of Ukraine, but only from the next call. I think it's totally wrong to start with yourself. What's the harm in giving 450 here to get rid of either the apartments or the help, I mean, who wants the apartment, and who wants the help, 250 or 300,000 dollars for each of the bailiffs. Why? No, there could be a service room. And the MP is working, he's finished his office, he's liberated his office, and he's gone to live in the area if he's not chosen for the second time, where he came from. [[Applause]] I thank the Socialist Party for its support. So I think today is the turn that formed, and we've looked at it -- and we're very sorry that there's no faction of exclusion, including our faction. We're already in line, we've already registered for compensation, dear friends, let's finally stop this happiness with you. And so the proposal is: there are two bills, Boris Bespalogo's bill, it cancels only the part of the benefit that the hand raised on, and the part that the hand didn't raise is where they stay. And I'm also surprised that there's a deputy badge, anyway, and it's like a privilege, and it needs to be removed, so there's no badge, and there's all the other benefits left. Actually, everything else is fine. So today I propose to adopt a bill based on our very own faction that I signed. And then, if there's any proposals from other deputies, it'll be further strengthened. Then, for the next week, move on to the cancellation of the benefits to all other officials. But just in case, our faction will vote both for the first bill and for the second, in order not to miss this happy moment at all, and to declare to the people that we are capable of anything at all. I thank you for your attention, and I believe that today we will take this historic step.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u108	Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, Alexander Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, according to the mandate of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – Moroz Alexandra Alexandrovich of 28 July this year at the meeting of the Committee on 20 September, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, on the organization of activities on, and the cancellation of, benefits introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bespalim, registration number 1058 of 13.06. In 2006 The draft Act provides for changes to the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy of Technical and Legality, as well as changes to a number of right-wing rules relating to the exercise by the Ukrainian National Deputies of their powers, guaranteeing their labour rights. A review of the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine" is due to the fact that they do not fully comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law "On the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies" and the Constitution of Ukraine, which was amended in the context of political reform, as noted by the author of the legislative initiative in the explanatory note. The Committee agreed on the need for changes in the technical and legal character contained in paragraphs one, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, tenth, eleventh, fourteenth draft law. At the same time, the vast majority of the legal rules proposed by the author of the bill were not supported by members of the committee. In particular, the proposal made in paragraph 30 to change the procedure for the consideration of voters' appeals to the Ukrainian national MPs is controversial. It is proposed to consider references to questions of national competence. Taking into account that according to part of the first article of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Ukrainian National Deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so all of society's problems in some way relate to the legislative regulation or the exercise of control functions by Parliament, and to the fact that the law does not provide for a legal term for the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian People's Deputy seems to be inappropriate to apply a legal norm under which each individual national MP will determine the limits of his or her competence. Moreover, under a proportional electoral system, such an approach may have a negative impact on the relationship of national MPs with the electorate. The bill, paragraph 36, proposes to delete article 35, which addresses the issue of the provision of housing for Ukrainian MPs. Instead, there is no other legal answer to the question of the residence of Ukrainian national deputies, including the provision of accommodations and hotel rooms.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u110	Alexander Sergiyovich, let's do it because you're one thing at a time. Now and then, but shorter. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u111	The committee was determined as to the need. The purpose of the bill is also, as the author writes in an explanatory note, to cancel individual benefits to the Ukrainian National Deputies. The committee agrees that individual issues are to be considered, but they need to be addressed in a balanced way. The committee determined that it was necessary to adopt a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and decided to make a proposal to the Supreme Council to reject the draft law introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bespalim and proposed to the Supreme Council on the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of the Rules, MP's ethics and enforcement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine in a new edition. The relevant draft decree made by the members of the committee of the People's Deputies. The committee invites Boris Jakovič Bespalogo, the other drafters of the bill on this issue, to participate in the drafting of the new law. Please support the committee’s decision and vote in favour of the committee’s draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u112	About the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u113	I'll, I'll draw all the conclusions in a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u114	So what's the conclusion of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u115	The committee decided to make a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a rejection of the outcome of the first reading of the draft Law of Ukraine by the National Deputies of Timoshenko, Tomenko, Bondar, here are well-founded proposals for why it is being done. The relevant draft decree submitted by the members of the committee by the people’s deputies. We also ask you to support this decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, I recall a reduced procedure, i.e. two "for", two "against", two minutes. Please register with the factions who are “in favour”. Samylik, Tkachenko – “for”. The factions. Dear colleagues, I see that. I'm asking for the "Council" system, and I'm reminding you of the factions "for" and "against" I'm asking you to rewrote. We're going to sign it now. By factions, not by deputies, but by factions, by factions. Please rewritable. Z - Tachchenko, now just another and the Smitch Party of the Regions. Who's against it? Also by factions. Grigorovitch and Kravchenko, but one faction has already been, so Landik. Please, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, prepare for Smitsuhu. You're handing over Simonenko? Please, Simonenko, Communist faction, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! I want to inform you immediately that the Communist faction will vote in favour of these draft laws on first reading. And I consider it necessary today to have a serious discussion in general about a system that really exists in the State. Based on the need to align the income of our ordinary citizens with the level of income of the officials who govern the country. And that is what the distinguished radio audience is talking about today because the illegal Government of Timoshenko has increased wages for the public, especially for the Cabinet of Ministers, to 20,000 bracelets per month. This concerns not only the people's deputies, of whom just 450 people, but also the tens of thousands of people who work at the President's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, in the United States of America. and the administrations, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS, the Prosecutor's Office, the courts. As a result of the act taken by Timoshenko, the pension for individual judges increased to 70,000 bracelets per month. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, on first reading, it is necessary to make this decision, and on second reading, to prepare a system document to which we will bring all the benefits that they enjoy into line, I believe that it is not justified today, many categories of civil servants. And in this situation, this will be true for those workers who, unfortunately, as a result of this increase in salaries for employees, have an average salary of 1,100 bracelets in Ukraine, and officials have 20,000. This is the result of the policy of Timoshenko. Thank you. And the Communist faction will support this draft law on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u118	Yes, please, Smitsch. There will be a lineup when the discussion is over. To whom do you convey Gregory Smythech? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u120	Please, Eugene Kushnarov, “Regions” faction. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u121	Respectable colleagues have made many policies their careers in the 15th anniversary of the struggle for democracy on the benefit of social justice in the fight against benefits and privileges. It is enough to remember the popular love for Boris Nikolaevich Yeltsin and how he later really refused all the benefits. Well, God be with him, it's another country. I have no doubt that the benefits and privileges are part of our past. No one needs them, and they are basically humiliating any human being who takes advantage of them. But even less humiliating is the pharisaicism with which newly declared defenders of the people try to bring about another attack of public love and thereby create a negative attitude towards everyone else. Let us, once and for all, separate the grain from the weeds and say clearly and clearly that a person who has a high status as a popular electorate is really needed to exercise his authority in the name of the people, and what is contrived, applied and what is actually written on paper, but in fact no one is used. And let's stop these speculations. Dear Julia Vladimirovna, one pearl necklace on your neck is enough to keep the average Ukrainian family safe for five years. And you're talking about the love of the people here and you're trying to represent yourself as his protector when you've been digging up Ukraine's half-economy in the mid-1990s. I don't need your toys! Give them to the poor. And I can pour you a glass of water, or you've already got a throat that's so excited! Let us give this symbol of generosity and of universalness.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u122	It feels like, your honor, I've already said that when the discussion is over, there will be a lineup. I've already said that. It feels like we're working all the time, so it's a very good thrill. Please, Grigorovich, Jacobina, please. But once again, I warn you that you must speak against the support of this law, if you speak for it, I will deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u123	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” faction. Well, the previous speech gives us reason to believe that there is greater populism against populism. I believe that the social, financial, and moral reasons for this are significant parliamentary benefits. Moreover, the valid Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” contains significant differences with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, as well as with the Supreme Council Rules. It's got to be done. So I've put myself in a very ambiguous situation, and the chairman has given the floor, but he's demanding that I go against the bill 1058. So I'm going to touch on some positive points, and then I'm going to say a proposition. Since the project proposes to amend the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, it is logical that a national deputy should not have the right to remain in the military service, to serve in the internal affairs office, to the Security Service of Ukraine, to be a judge and to be a judge, and, as regards the changes in the guarantee of the labour rights of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the project proposes not to grant a national deputy whose term of office has ended, or to be suspended in time for his personal application, the previous place of employment, but only to register the staff of the National Service of Ukraine. In this regard, it is proposed that the former national deputy be not paid material aid for the period of his employment and that an article be excluded from the law, according to which the national deputy is provided with living quarters or with financial compensation. Then it's logical to accept 1058 in the first reading, and the position of the alternative bill to take into account, to prepare for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, of course, I didn't feel comfortable turning off the microphone, because the point is, I'll remind you again, it's not a requirement of a presiding officer, it's a requirement of the Rules. I asked the factions who would support the law and the Communist factions and the Party of the Regions to sign up for the law, and the rest said they wouldn't support the law. Sadly, though, he spoke with the support of the law. I mean, since this is the first performance, I'm, like, the debut of Jacob's performance. Please, Kravchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! I would like to ask the Communist factions to convince them that they should vote against the bill on at least some issues. Julia Vladimirovna set up such a pyre here, which eventually asked her to start her own life. Yulia Vladimirovna, return seven and a half billion bracelets that you illegally use today in the circulation of the Single Energy Systems, including. As soon as you get back, then we can buy these necklaces, probably all over the hall. And I'm actually offering the kind of pear walk that Julia Vladimirovna here is doing, taking and sending for an evaluation, and officially declaring what it's worth. So that it won't be like this anymore. And the craziness that I have written, I support Kushnarev, is the nonsense that is written in the bill submitted by Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, which clearly cannot be voted for. That's why I'm calling, let's keep up, and let's not vote. But I will submit to the faction's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please repeat, Bespali and Timoshenko. Well, Timoshenko's on the rostrum. Please. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u127	Dear friends! Well, first of all, I'll give it up, I'll take three or four deputies to the lab, it's jewelry, there's no pearl here, my dears. That's the first one. The other one. Look what the MPs are doing, what acrobatic tricks they're doing, so they don't take away the benefits! It's just weird. The Communists want everyone in the world to be eliminated, and then their family. It's so nobody can get hurt. A party of regions says, let's make a new Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and it'll go another six months, or maybe a year, but let's not cancel these benefits. Each one has his own place, his respectable friends. But the people will know who and how they will now vote for the abolition of the benefits. And I'm going to tell you that this is going to be an indicator of what each MP represents. And what Kushnarov was saying here is that there's something that MPs need and can predict in the law -- you need a conscience, you don't need anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u128	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u129	Calm down, my friends. Dear colleagues! There's nothing to do and nothing to do. All right, I'll point it out. All I'm saying is, I'm going to take the benefits off. And by the way, travel in Ukraine is for work in a state-wide district. By housing, which, by the way, never have I, nor my family, nor my parents, nor my grandparents received. I suggested canceling it immediately, but as long as the bill was hidden under the blanket here, a notational turn was formed, which no one has the right to cancel. So I suggest that this rule be activated from the next call. Dear colleagues! Discussional problems that are, and that have been noted by the speakers, can be settled when preparing for second reading. But as all the reporters have said, and everyone understands, this is going to be a test vote. And we do not have an alternative, which is Ukraine’s national deputy, so he will certainly vote in favour. And whoever's socially vulnerable, so you're not going anywhere, they're going to sign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Question completed. All I'm saying is, the only thing I want to say is that in the presentation, one of the speeches was the misinterpreted position of the Communists. [[No replicas, they've already been exchanged.]] Simonenko clearly and unequivocally said that the Communist faction voted in favour of the law, so there is no need for exaggeration. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Act No. 1058, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies. [[12:18:15]] For 206 Not accepted. The factions, please. The factions are: Region Party – 2, Block Timoshenko – 110, Our Ukraine – 43, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 1. The second draft 1058-2 is the amendment to the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Timoshenko Bill. [[on the organization of activities and the cancellation of benefits]] [[12:19:00]] For 215 Factions: Region Party – 2, "Lilyi Timoshenko Block" – 117, "Our Ukraine" – 48, Socialists – 27, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 1. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is under consideration. [[on documents submitted for registration]] John Boki is the author of Bill 1310. Prepare Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the need to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is primarily due to the State's interests in protecting its property rights in enterprises based on mixed ownership. I can say in advance that the opponents will say, and what is this mixed form of property, where is it in our legislation? But it's in life: former inter-college wakes, inter-college wakes, inter-college sanitariums, etc. It's like they're gone, and they are. And dissension in determining their status requires a legislative regulation, since all business entities must bring their status into line with the requirements of Ukraine’s laws. In view of the fact that the state’s corporate rights in the vast majority of inter-economic enterprises are not legally constituted, in many cases, when their status is brought into line with the requirements of Ukrainian laws, the state component is, of course, not necessarily disappearing. Arrangements are under way for preprivatization of already-called mixed-proprietary enterprises, such as the APC. And without amending the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Individuals, it will be difficult to determine the State's share. We suggest that, during the re-registration, the registration authority should require enterprises to have mixed form of property that is not in the law, but which is in existence in life, a copy of an act approved by the registration authority, which is formed when determining the state share of the property of these enterprises by the relevant privatization body. The change is about section 24 of the seventh, the bill is on your hands. Without this change, the authorities of the holding fund are unable to effectively carry out preprivatization work. The drafters request that the document be adopted in the first reading and be prepared for further elaboration on the basis of a discussion at the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and in the sessional room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Please sit down, Ivan Sidorovich. From the committee of Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u133	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, have carefully considered the bill and draw attention to the following. Despite the fact that the problem that has been posed is, in fact, exciting in terms of the fact that it is not possible to lose a piece of government property. Nevertheless, we pay attention to the following two key problems. The first, indeed, is nowhere in the legislation defined: what is an enterprise of mixed form and inter-economic societies? The adoption of such a Law can lead to what? That the public registrar will stop his job at all, because he can't determine by his naity and intuition what kind of form this is. And he's criminally responsible if he's taking measures that don't match the letter of the Law, that's the first. Second, the question raised, that of taking into account a portion of government property, is indeed addressed by article 37 of the Law on the State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs, which provides that in the event of the registration of a legal person, the result of a merger. Joining, dividing, or converting is given or a document demonstrating a distribution balance that testifies to the ownership or testifies to a notary act of transfer, transferring a corresponding portion of the property to a new entity. Thus, the state registry has full information about government property and does not lose anything; there is another problem. The problem is that the information between the two held institutions is not settled: between the state registry that has this information and the holding fund, which does not receive this information. But we are convinced that this problem needs to be addressed, not by the Law of Ukraine, but by appropriate regulations, because both institutions are national. And that's enough of Kabminu's determination, which will require, for example, a government registry, in case. If he's got a distribution balance, where the share of government property is given, he's going to report it to the holding fund. And this completely solves the problem posed by the authors. The committee therefore suggested that the bill should be rejected and that it should be regulated by regulations. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? Nobody insists? Then we'll determine. There are two suggestions. The committee's proposal is to reject, the chief scientific expert's proposal to re-read. And the third sentence that we have to vote on is because, as it were, the author makes it. So I'm voting first on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, 1310. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:25:52]] For-29 A motion for a committee to reject draft Law 1310 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:26:15]] Z-62 Not supported. And the third sentence is about re-reading. Or let's do that. What's better? Because if we're going to read again, we have to give a task to the committee. It's better for work. I'm making a proposal to send the author to work on it. Please vote. [[12:26:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, here comes the excitement. I have pretenses, but I didn't take part in this, which is a missing subject for expertise. It's up to you to figure it out. Please sign up for the various performances. Please put it on the board, on the screens. It's been an hour. Please, Yuri Crook. Jaroslav Suhi is behind him. Yuri Borisovich, will you be speaking? A Turk? Please, Alexander Turchinov. To prepare, the Dry One passes it to Cowchenka Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, you know, our entire Ukrainian society may be amazed at the disgrace that our Supreme Council is covering itself. Only for days is the so-called majority that represents the Anti-Cristian Coalition annulled, by the way, the moratoriums on rising municipal payments, prices on utility payments, actually putting all our citizens beyond survival in this winter. And I think another story will judge those who voted for the destruction of most of our fellow citizens. And today this disgrace continues. The same ones who voted in favour of cancelling the moratorium on price increases today refused to cancel the benefits. Each of them was covered up with things that were simply embarrassing to listen to. Especially, I think the whole country was laughing at Mr. Kushnarov, who, well, he was jealous of the clothes Julia Volodymyrna wore earlier, and today he was jealous of the jewelry she was wearing. And I would like to inform you that Julia Volodymyrov, giving this necklace to Mr. Kushnarov, asked the journalists to evaluate this, this expensive woman's ornament, so that Mr. Kushnarov would know how much he received today's prizes. And, you know, honourable colleagues, I think that journalists will certainly do it fast enough, but shamefully, friends, for another. It is a shame that our deputies, who today have the opportunity to buy apartments at the expense of the budget, are now free to drive around the country. Which have a lot of other benefits, actually, I'm stressing treacherously refer to their electorate. And by refusing to support our motion for a moratorium on price increases, I emphasize, in fact, this winter is going to be a winter for destruction. Any offer made by government officials to lower prices for tariff cuts is a lie from the wicked one. No real step in this direction is taking place, and all conditions are created for large corporations to benefit from human poverty. And I think that really in the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, the only benefit for people like Kushnarov is the benefit -- a conscience that unfortunately is not available to them today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u136	Please don't call your last name because there will be lines. Drought passed the word Kravchenko Mikoli after him Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u137	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Respectable voters! I want to explain to you what is going on in the Supreme Council these days, and that's why I took the floor in different ways. First. Today, these two bills, which allegedly refer to the alleged benefits of the people's deputies, are actually about wages and what they provide for the activities of the people's MP. Yesterday's moratorium on gas and so forth, that's all. I want to tell you one thing, today the so-called opposition in the face of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko is doing everything he can to drive people away from the true situation in the economy brought by the orange coalition and the Government of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. This has already been said several times, but I dare you to repeat that Julia Vladimirovna herself has laid the foundation for the gas crisis that is today being unleashed by the anti-crisis coalition. And the not-popular measures that Julia Vladimirovn is trying to refer to today are supposed to be allowed by this coalition as a result of its activities. And Julia Vladimirovna is fearful of one fact that the Commission of Inquiry, which was established by the Supreme Council, will in any case find out how, within four months, the decisions of different courts from the District Court to the Supreme Court were overturned by one mach in four months when she became Prime Minister. Thus, 7.5 billion bracelets were virtually removed from the budget. That's why they're even dropping some so-called jewelry here. Although. I lifted it. It's got weight. That's why Julia Vladimirovna took away, had to give us, we would honestly, quietly make an assessment and announce how much such necklace is worth, so that you don't do any more of this in the Supreme Council. Today's the day. We remember you and the D.A. taking your watch off, et cetera. You will eventually remove the mask from your face and eventually stop blackmailing the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, every man will get a rep at the end. Artemenko, please, "Our Ukraine", followed by Kirilenko. I repeat, I'll get anyone who wants it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u139	Adam Ivanovich, I'm ready to give up, Julius Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u140	Please. He'll give Artemenko one minute. Please, Timoshenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u141	Julia Timoshenko. You know, I listened to this story by a representative of the Communist Party, and I realized that after they became a department in the Party of Regions and started serving all the strongest oligarchs in Ukraine, they just had nothing to say. They're just people who've lost both their position in society and their conscience and their ideology and their honor. And that's why I have three suggestions for you Communists. First, name your party by some other name. Second, take Lenin's portrait off your walls. And thirdly, please go to the polls and make sure that no other person will back you up in the country after your betrayal. And when you cancel the moratorium on housing and utility services, to raise tariffs, you hand over the country, people who still believed you, and to cover it up, you have to have a "bride" like Timoshenko. It won't work!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u142	Of course, you would like to be served, but it will not work. Please, Artemenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u143	Today we have passed under the flag of fighting the existing benefits, and I would like to express the position of the faction “Our Ukraine” not to grant additional privileges to the members of the Supreme Council. This is about the idea of building a parliamentary town for deputies. We stand firm against the idea of building a parliamentary town, no matter who it comes from. Because the MPs are able to solve the housing issue without any help from the state. We stress that there is no special housing issue for deputies. The people's choice of housing should be in general terms, in accordance with defined legislation, but now that the wages have increased considerably. This salary allows you to take credit for housing and take down apartments. Then, all initiatives to address housing issues of the poor MPs are nothing more than outright nonsense and will cost hundreds of millions of dollars of government money. The provision of new benefits, in the form of service housing, is a direct lie to those who really need to resolve their household issues. Please tell me, sitting here, if anyone believes that the Ukrainian national deputy will give it up in five years. Current legislation is simply unable to create an uncompromising basis for an unhindered return to the state of the people’s apartments. We all know the schemes for fictitious divorces, the registration in their children's service homes, grandmothers, parents and so on. So, we think, on a daily basis, that building a parliamentary town is useless and that they create new excuses for mocking the country's highest legislative body. Any benefits, including housing, are only increasing the tension in society. Building a place, building a place for deputies, is a typical example of robbing people. I would like to point out that experts estimate that the cost of building a complex is 200 million dollars, and it will be built for 4 years. So once again, the faction “Our Ukraine” highlights the inadequacy of spending millions of dollars from the state budget, which will lead not only to an increase in social tension but also to the creation of new legislative commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u144	Thank you. The truth would be more logical to offer these suggestions to those who are to live there, not to those who have already received housing in the Supreme Council. Yes. Kirilenko passes it on to Viacheslav Oliynik. Please, Jacob tells you to prepare Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Despite all the difficulties, Ukrainian society is gradually developing in the direction of democracy and freedom of personality. However, not all state institutions meet modern legal standards. Regrettably, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine remains the centre of lawlessness, abuse of the Constitution, and human rights. To date, the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor’s Office does not guarantee the protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms, and it is in fact a body whose activity is directed at a person. Open disregard for the law in this department has already gained a systemic character. On this background, the latest statements made by the Henprocurator's office regarding the need for increased powers of this authority are particularly cynical. To begin with, at this point, the prosecution remains one of the most closed public authorities. The public does not even have the opportunity to familiarize itself with the regulations governing its activities. The system of statistics on which the Office of the Attorney General is based is also an open farce. It is no secret that private employees of this department spend 90 percent of their time doing professional work making statistics, which is the main criterion for assessing their activities. In fact, such reports are used as a means of influencing unfavourable subjects. Despite the requirements of the law, they are not made public in the media, and the public has no opportunity to get to know them. It should be noted that the data reflected in the Henprocurator's reports are false and fabricated. Thus, in the 2005 report on the prosecutor’s work, it is stated that, according to acts of prosecutorial response, only over 800 million are compensated for the budgets of all levels. In fact, it's only two billion dollars, and it's only two billion dollars. However, such information and its credibility could not be confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and State. Still in our country, the level of legality is measured in percentages, such as, by the way, the state of crime detection. The level of degradation of this department is evidenced even by such strong facts as the repeated charges made by the Attorney General’s Office regarding the commission of service crimes committed by active officials of this department. A recent similar case is the prosecutor’s accusation of concealing the results of a deliberate murder investigation. However, none of these reports have been properly checked, and society has not received the correct answer, both in all resonant criminal matters. The state of consideration of parliamentary appeals remains extremely unsatisfactory. This points not only to the total disregard for the rights of national MPs, but also to the fact that the Attorney-General's activities are not governed by the rules of the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The officials of the Henprocurator’s Office have never properly ensured the presence of the national MP when considering his appeal, while this is not only the right of the national MP but also his duty. In view of this state of affairs, we can understand the practice of addressing citizens. In its policy-making activities, the Office of the Attorney-General has already openly gone beyond the legal field, and separate criminal cases have been attributed the “In complete secrecy” to the purpose of artificially obstructing the implementation of the judicial protection of citizens. I have to point out that today the basic methods of the work of the Attorney General’s Office are osmosis and lies. In summary, I would like to inform all prosecutors and law enforcement officials that the Supreme Council is in charge of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u146	Alexander Bondar, followed by Taras Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u147	Alexander Bondar, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to touch on the subject of budgetary revenue from privatization today. I would like to inform the people’s deputies that today the cost of privatization is 323 million dollars, which is 15 percent of the year’s work. At 2 billion a year. Taking into account the duration of payments for privatization objects, there is no substantial chance of filling out the budget this year for two months. What's more, nothing more or less attractive is offered for sale than that. What has been exhibited is taken off by the government from the sale, an example of this “Lugansk Tepelvoj”. This is a vivid example of what the so - called anti-crisis government is doing in the 2006 budget implementation plan. Now for the details. The competition for the sale of the Luganskteplory Holding Company was announced on July 19, 2006, and I would like to stress, using the openness of the auction price proposal, the same as the Krivorizstal. The initial cost of the package was 292 million dollars. Of all the stock packages scheduled for sale in 2006. This enterprise can significantly improve the state budget situation from privatization in 2006. This competition is actually a key sale of stock packages in 2006. The public information on the competition raised prices in the secondary market for this company. Four applications came in, two from foreign investors, who made $11.5 million as collateral, and two from Ukrainian, 58 million, 400,000 dollars. However, the Kiev Economic Court of Justice for the Public Administration of Rail Transport, which refers to the “Straightway”, that is, the State Enterprise, is suing the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund and suspending this competition. At the same time, on September 8, this year, a government committee led by Klaviv is deciding to suspend this competition, and thus the State Property Fund was forced to cancel it. As a result, at the end of the year, flight analysis after budget failure will be found and the guilty head of the Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna State Property Fund will be found with the appropriate conclusions. I want to draw attention to this example, because there is a deliberate breakdown of revenue into the budget, and the perpetrators will be, as always, the perpetrators, on whom nothing depends, and who are forced to carry out the decisions of the courts that give the state institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u148	Taras Cranville. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, radio listeners! I have to put my mind to some political issues again, even though I realize that this policy is already beginning to sit in my liver. Today, a statement was made by the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" regarding the transition to opposition. There are many applications, there is a political one already in force, and the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, which is now officially declared in opposition. And on the basis of that, there's a kind of colossal noise that changes the basis of what a opposing real process really is. The opposition corrects authority, the opposition directs authority to the right steps, and stops making mistakes. When opposition deals solely with populist claims or raises noise solely to conceal its own abuses, it is difficult to call opposition. You'll have every right to make any populist statement, but I'm looking at the statement by the faction "Our Ukraine." The motives that seem to drive the faction into opposition, even though in fact it's still, I think, far and wide real. There, after the anti-NATO statements of the Prime Minister, political persecution, betrayal of national interests in gas issues, ordering criminal cases against our Ukrainian ministers. If we reject the very speculative moment associated with NATO, with which we still need to take very seriously into the future, whether we really need to be there, and if we do, then who did everything to ensure that Ukraine is not in NATO and when the Ukrainians have given up completely on NATO – right during the Yushchenka presidency, then all the other points show very clearly that "Our Ukraine", which has once declared so in the field of "The Bandits of Prisons!", now the main fact is the transition to opposition, only the reason and motive that we failed to trade in the anti-crisis coalition for ourselves is the indulgence of all its corrupters, who have destroyed the same oil and gas system, which, over a period of six and a half years in power, has led to the fact that the good normal abreviation of NSU has begun to translate into the nation as nons. Even so, we will understand and respect the decision of our Ukraine and the continuation of the negotiations on the entry into the broad coalition if they finally hear the voice of the President who addresses them and their decision to move to the opposition. But let's build Ukraine together, both power and opposition. Let us not play in empty wasteland or cover up our crimes. You used to say, "Gands are prisons!" Let's give up yours, let them answer for what they've done. We are ready to continue the negotiations, and we, I make it clear, have not given up any points of the Universal, no points. And it's very clear that in the same statement of “Our Ukraine” there is no reference to any of our actions in this direction. Let's not speculate with phrases, let's work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u150	Jaroslav Kenzior. Prepare Alexander Tuckenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u151	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today, there is no talk of bribery, prejudice in the work of the courts, of the prosecutor’s office, except that it is lazy. These facts that we hear and catch every day are terrifying. After the trial, the Zacarpathian criminal authority of Paulo, not yet known as Rizak, has been released, has been said to have been unable to breathe chamber air, Alexander Melnik is a criminal criminal authority, a representative of the “Regions”; in Lviv there is a court hearing over the former urban head of Sambor Taras Tershchin, Lviv is watching what he ends, there is a prospect that nothing will end. Thus, this problem cannot help but worry Ukrainian society and, in particular, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, I have been approached very much by farm organizations that also complain about the corruption of the courts. A clear example can be found in the case that is currently being discussed lively in the media, namely: the case of a corporate conflict between shareholders of one of the largest mobile operators in the Kievstar-GSM. It is known that on June 27th of this year, the College of Judges of the Supreme Court, composed of Judge Kuzmenka, Judges Vassištak, Mikhayluka, considered the application “Telenorm-Mobile-Communications” for a review under the new circumstances of the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court ruling of December 22, last year on the invalidity of the statutes. It should be noted that the application “Telenorm” was made through the Kyiv’s household court. And notice the operationality, and on the same day it was sent to the Supreme Economic Court. Takes note of this operationality of the procedure, taking into account the requirements for legal proceedings, not to mention the practice that has arisen. The Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court ruling of 27 June of this year in case 46/501 is such that it is accepted in the face of the same court’s jurisprudence in similar cases because of a substantial outage of its own jurisdiction, which is recognized by valid procedural legislation. In doing so, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, in fact, in the absence of any newly discovered circumstances, proceeded to reevaluate its own judgment, which was justified by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And such statements, such things, respected friends, hundreds and hundreds. So this is the Supreme Council that has to pay attention to this, because we're going to drown.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u152	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, feel that you have a mobile card, probably "Kievstar". Tweezer. Oh, no? Umc? I'm sorry. Alexander Tkachenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u153	Alexander Tkachenko, Communist faction. About the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association of Ukraine's Agrarians. Statement: The current economic and social situation in the countryside is catastrophic. The agrarian sector is constantly plagued by various crises: energy, food. This particular concern and concern is caused by the degradation of our most precious treasure — human capital in the village. The vast majority of peasants are disappointed by the consequences of land reform, which took place in haste, with gross violations of legal standards, without adequate financial, material security, and consideration of the mental, moral, and psychological factors of Ukrainians. Finally, the Ukrainian village found itself in difficult conditions of high unemployment, moneylessness, and social insecurity. In view of the circumstances outlined above, we, the national deputies of Ukraine, claim. For us, the fate of a peasant, of every rural family, is of no concern to us. We're concerned about the unsatisfying financial and economic situation of agricultural production. That's why we're creating an interfractional parliamentary association of Ukraine's Agrarians. The goal of unification is to actively contribute to the preparation and adoption of legislative acts that would serve the construction and development of agricultural production, the strengthening of social rules in the countryside. We feel it is our duty to do everything in our power to protect the rights of both peasants and agrarian forms of various forms of property, to preserve the fertility of Ukrainian Blacklands, and to develop the function of large, highly productive agricultural complexes. Our main requirement is that the country's state support should be an adequate contribution of agro-industrial workers to Ukraine's economy. I appeal to the deputies of various political preferences to support our initiative and to complete the ranks of interfractional union. For this union, 21 national deputies have been signed today. And to conclude, dear friends. Some Communist parties are concerned about the role and authority of the Communist Party. Please don't worry. Those who contributed this party, the party that created Ukraine, the party that rebuilt Ukraine and the party that protected Ukraine with the Ukrainian people. Don't worry. In 15 years, you've already ripped it apart and ripped it apart. The Communist Party stands for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u154	Oleg Belarus. Get ready for Sasha.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u155	Oleg Belarus, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Respectful citizens, good people, here all day long, barking opposition, and there should be opposition, defending the interests of the people, must criticize the government and all government structures. During the harsh winter, she will ask the authorities and the government and parliament, and each family will ask how to winter and how to warm children and families. Yesterday, most parliament abolished the moratorium on tariff hikes and thus brought millions of Ukrainian families to their knees. An increase of three times and four times the price of gas, with this increase in government, the majority showed that they spit on the interests and lives of millions of Ukrainian citizens. To this day, 500,000 citizens have died in Ukraine. Poverty is the main cause of such great mortality, and tomorrow, starting in the winter of 2007, we can expect a double death rate. And the government is offering screwdrivers to cut tariffs a little bit and place these tariffs on the floor of the apartment, tomorrow on the size of the apartments, and on the amount of gas it consumes. This reminds us of the situation when a man comes to the store rich and poor. The poor man pays half the price, and the rich man pays two. It's never going to happen and it's not going to be in the market economy. The powerless conduct of the government reminds us of the situation of Ukrainian folklore. It's winter, and it's free, says, "There, Grandma dies, the bitch dies, and the girl gets married." Winter and the devil came, and the old woman was alive, and the bitch was alive, and no one took the girl. It may be necessary for the devil to take the government and have Parliament and opposition to protect people to order, we have 21 billion gas production in Ukraine. “Rosukrenerego” captured this popular achievement. Who will protect the people only by opposition. Where is the law of opposition? For six months, Parliament is working without one wing. This is not normal anywhere in the world. Citizens of Ukraine, be vigilant, unite around the opposition, and there is no other way to protect you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u156	Sass conveys the word Kirilenko, please, Ivan Grigorovitch, the lad sends Cybenko to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In my speech, I would like to address colleagues who have just entered the created union of Ukrainian agrarians. I want to talk to those who work on the Budget Committee. Dear friends, and order from this high rostrum a word about the village. It endures pressure all the time, responding to severe challenges. In the coming days, he will face an amazingly four more severe trials. First. It is clear and clear that tariffs for the population, gas prices, electricity, utilities will grow substantially. And every Ukrainian family, or vast majority, will have to review their family budget. And this family budget will not be reviewed for consumption. Prices will inevitably drop. The collapse of prices, Omelyan Nikonovich, even from this point of view, the collapse of prices on the agricultural market is inevitable, is a blow to the economy. The other one. And of course, a factor such as Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, we've already passed 95 percent of the laws that, in fact, we're actually there, are doing our agriculture. Dear friends! Two and a half times the import tariffs on agricultural raw materials and food, this competitiveness, this saturation of the market with imported goods, this price, this is the standards, this is the quality and here we are definitely losing, and here is the impact on the economy of agriculture. Third. The rise in energy prices for industrial enterprises producing raw materials, mineral fertilizers, techniques, spare parts, agricultural protection products will inevitably lead to higher prices for these rural resources, and more distortions will occur. And that's another blow. And finally the fourth. Since 2007, it has been suggested that the tax burden on agriculture be increased. An added value tax is introduced, which the village did not know for eight years. The return of VAT from processing companies is eliminated and payments to the pension fund are substantially increased. Indeed, the village in this case faces threats that put it on the brink of survival. We still have the budget to respond to these challenges and support the village, we're not in WTO yet. So we still have the opportunity to significantly increase and significantly improve the financial situation in agriculture. Looking at the budget, it's three billion more against last year, but that's extremely small. Let us see where we can form a favourable price for the village. The purchase of grain is set aside at 600 million. We'll have to buy it from mortgage operations and from the state reserve at least 2-3 million tons. This requires not 600 million, of course, about 2 billion. Technical restocking of agriculture, for there are not prices on the market, but costs, rather than prices on the market. There, too, the cost is too small; there could also be a significant increase in the social development of the village. Dear friends, 2007 is a turning point, and everything needs to be done to protect the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Peter Cibenko. Prepare Bulby Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Zybenko, the Communist faction. Here a noble lady called the Communist faction someone's department. As a historian, I want to remind you that where and when they started fighting Communists and Communism, Fascism was gained. So I'm going to report that today the orange team was able to build a police half-fascist state. This is very vividly illustrated by the example that I will now give. In recent times, the field of activity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of gross violations of existing legislation, abuses up to its involvement in criminal offences, has been committed by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Last week, a new investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was set up to verify the facts of the violent abuses and crimes committed by police officers of the Odščina Police, published in the newspaper “2000”. I would like to help this commission publish one fact that has a direct bearing on the subject of the commission's knowledge. And here's the thing. In one of the speeches from this rostrum, I reported the fact that the V.I. Lenin monument had been dismantled in Odessa by the modern-day barbarians. Some in this regard even clapped their hands in this room. But there is something in this event that must unite all of us regardless of factional belongings. This is about the fact that people have been brutally beaten by police officers. Moreover, there is reason to claim that this fact of beating citizens is organized. To this end, a special operation was carried out with the special departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And that's how it happened. Police officers surrounded the Protestants with a dense ring. Then they opened the rings and dropped 20 to 30 young people in a civilian prison who beat the Protestants, broke their hands, smashed their heads, etc. Thus, this situation is fragrant because it was managed by Mr. Martinyuk, deputy director of the Primorski District Department of Internal Affairs of Odessa. Adam Ivanovich, I apologize for the coincidence. However, it does have a real fact. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has dropped this, but today the Attorney General's Office has taken care of this, and I think everyone will be issued as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u160	Thank you. I can't see the Bulby, please, Mordecai. Prokopovic handed over the word Grigorovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u161	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sumska District Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On October 3, this year, at 8:30 p.m., the city’s capital, the Shuma District Committee of Ukraine, was attacked by Bovu Yuri Anatoliyovich, a member of the Sumu District Committee of the Socialist Party. Bowie was seriously injured, and he is in a hospital today. The condition of doctors is assessed as medium - birthed. But this was not the last, literally, day after day a gang attack was carried out on the store where Yuri Bova’s wife, the manager, was removed from the doorway, the window. All of this shows that these events are chains of one chain and there are orders. Last week, I met Yuri Bowa and he complained that he was being pressured, and he's focused on his principled position on preserving municipal property against defending the interests of the territorial community of this city. By the way, it should be noted that the situation in this area over the past few years has caused serious concern from the public in our area and during the events of a two-year-old age and later, the use of criminal gangs is a method of action by certain groups against unworthy political party activists, local government leaders and entrepreneurs. Today, there is concern about the objective, principled investigation of the merger of this crime. Today, the citizens of the city of Trostianza express their mistrust in the activities of members of the district department of internal affairs, members of the district attorney’s office. Therefore, I have already made a request appropriate to the Attorney-General and Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the taking of personal control of this case, as well as to the dispatch to the city of Tristan of an appropriate brigade of employees from the central apparatus of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office, to ensure an objective and complete investigation into the case of the beating. It's very sad when we have a young man in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u162	Lilia Grigorovich. Sokirko gave the word Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u163	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! The twenty-first century is a century of high-tech communications technology. When a society, the community in every country can track very purposefully and carefully not only the temperature regime, the currency rate, but also the political events, and the political situation. The Hungarian public, on the other hand, monitored the political situation in their country, saw that the prime minister lied in the spring, and in the summer he wrapped this lie in candy, and they responded accordingly. What's it to me? I'm saying that today, Ukrainian society has all the same opportunities to promote not only technological but also its intellectuals to promote everything that's going on in Ukrainian politics. And let's go through all of these points with you again. In a few years. On 29 March 2003, the entire parliamentary majority of the then-initiated “governance”, the SDPU (o), the Party of the Regions in friendly ranks voted in favour of the NATO Partnership Bill. Noted? I think that's what they're going to do today, and the Donnie miner who listens to me, the courageous feudal pensioners who worked at the height of the resort season have noticed. Then the political power, one of these political forces, is put in opposition. And immediately, when we're in power, let the country be unitary, but if we're not in power, let there be a federation or a confederate. And that's when they start to declare their position against NATO. Noted? You've noticed. When the Party of Regions wanted the President to present Prime Minister Yanukovic's candidacy, they sign the Universal, where once again all positions are contrary to the election program of the party with which she went to the elections. Noted? You've noticed. When Mr. Janukovic became Prime Minister, it turns out that the Universal was just to become Prime Minister. Noted, respectable voters? You've noticed. Where am I going with this? But because Ukrainian society should monitor the political situation no worse than other European societies. So today I heard a speech from this rostrum, and why this is our Ukraine came out of the negotiating process. We're people who are consistent. If it's a unitary thing, then to the end, if it's a Euro-Inclusion, then to the end, we've been through this whole process all the way down to the end. If someone suddenly wants to go back to the negotiation process, please implement the Universal, because these are the universal drugs offered by the President of Ukraine to those with federalism, they were afraid to recover. And we will consistently stand in the defense of our national interests and national dignity. In part, I want to report that the number 2 mechanic of the dairy plant in Donetsk, Yuri Litwin, is being harassed by the fact that he started writing the relevant notes in Ukrainian. I invited this man to be my assistant referee, and I have the honour to announce that this man is under my omofor. Therefore, there are no problems with the Ukrainian language in Ivano-Frankivsky, and in Donetsk there is such a position “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u164	I can't see the mouth. Tomenko gave the word to Teren. To prepare Richch, he gave the word Mendushu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u165	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the bill of Julia Timoshenko on the elimination of parliamentary benefits was considered in this Hall. The bill didn't go through. They were against the region -- the children of Januković's nest, Surkis's, Ahmtova's, were against billionaires, they were running low. In fact, there are people who only the raw earth will feed. And when MP Kushnarov had nothing left to say, why the regions against the deprivation of benefits, this deputy began to say what Timoshenko said in Julius Timoshenko’s expensive necklace on his neck. And then Julia Timoshenko took this necklace off and gave it to Kushnarov. There's no pearl in that necklace, it might be worth a hundred bucks, but let Kushnarov wear it himself if it suits him. And instead of shooting with shame, this MP just ran away from the hall. In general, the mental health of this deputy should be taken care of by doctors, for, remember, he spoke quite similar words on television quite recently: Tymoshenko had expensive clothes. Sure. Let Julia Volodymyrna give him women's underwear. Maybe he's collecting women's jewelry, women's underwear. Well, it's already, excuse me, a mental depravity that characterizes the mental-moral state of the Party of the Regions. Probably. People are affected by the area after all. It is not in vain that a budget that does not have the right to pay is designed not to limit the number of transfers to prisoners. Clearly, then, today’s government officials are concerned about their long - term prospects. And the Communists. They complain that a monument was dismantled in Odessa by Vladimir Ilchi Lenin. So dear friends, what is it? You're really serving the regions today. You are serving the richest clan in Ukraine and in Europe today. You've got millions there today. Please install a new monument. You could figure out, let's say, this idea, say Janukovic and Lenin read a book, someone reads Capital, someone reads the Criminal Code, and it's going to be okay, because it really doesn't work out, because, you know, it's people with humor. And today, Vladimir Ilchi Lenin has turned into a headless farmer. I mean, I think you need to take another amount of money in the regions and set up a worthy monument.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u166	There are no words to say. Please, let's go. Then Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u167	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs! Freedom of speech is a value that you do not notice when it is but that you feel when it becomes small or does not become completely. In Ukrainian society, the resonance has led to prosecution by the Russian authorities of Ukrainian citizens, ethnic Ukrainian Taras Zelenjak, a resident of Novosibirsk, accused by the Russian prosecutor of writing texts on one of the Ukrainian websites, particularly on the Internet. In addition, the text is not signed by his name, and the accused wrongs his or her authority. Even if we allow Taras Zelenjak to be involved in writing the “posts” he is accused of, can we say that in today's democratic world it is appropriate to have an impact on his citizen? Isn't the citizen's right to express any political position the foundation of any democracy? The accusations against Zelenjak are a manifestation of the remnants of totalitarian thinking and cast a shadow on the reputation of the new Russia. The “posts” in the Ukrainian political forum on the Internet cannot harm the modern-day powerful Russian state. Instead of strengthening relations between our fraternal peoples, this incident stimulates anti-Russian sentiment in the Ukrainian society and gives rise to accusations of the resurgence of totalitarianism in the realm of human rights and citizen. And this is happening at a time when the Ukrainian Parliament and Government are making serious efforts to raise the quality of our interstate relations to a new level where the peoples and Ukraine and Russia are interested. I want to refer to the official bodies of Ukraine, first to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Human Rights Council of the High Council, and I would like to formally request further information on the matter of Ukrainian Taras Zelenjak. Today, I have an appointment with the Commissioner of the Russian State for Human Rights, Volodymyr Lukinim, on the same subject. If the Zelenjak case is ignored and if further prosecution is allowed, this case may continue to be used as another blow on Ukrainian-Russian relations, which is unnecessary, unnecessary and should not be allowed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u168	Katerina Lapina. Slauta gave the word of Horbatjuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Our Ukraine has repeatedly stated its clear position to strike a balance between socio-oriented policies and support for the country's economic development. We think that, in general, the wisdom of public policy, first of all, should be what this balance is. Therefore, we are convinced that no law, and even more so the State Budget Act, which defines, in fact, a year-round strategy, should go against ensuring and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of every citizen. So any effort that we see today to give preferences to individual financial and oligarchic groups will be strongly opposed by our faction. Society continues to familiarize itself with the draft State Budget Act. And they're starting to look for some kind of definition. And I've already heard from the electorate such an interesting, interesting expression, as our fellow citizens call the new Budget Act. They say the Budget is about how the poor will share with the rich so that the rich will become richer. And different experts also find names for this bill, for example, some experts think it's a replacement budget, a replacement of social payments with payments aimed at increasing the well-being of individual financial circles. I want to draw attention to the fact that if we didn't want to make a policy out of it, politics would just come out of it in every line. In fact, the budget is focused on reducing social security in certain directions, paying attention to which all of our citizens have paid, you could learn that today at the entrance, we, the national MPs, have even been making calls to fight for citizens' rights in the State Budget Act. Thus, these social benefits are replaced by the concentration of financial flows in the hands of individual executives, separate directions in the government. And this money that's given to them in management is actually not clearly meant to be used. It means that someone's sitting, sorry, on the cash register, and they're going to give him government money, whatever I want, and they're going to give it to someone. You know what today's budget looks like? Some came to guide the country, looked: And the kingdoms are small, take a walk somewhere. And we decided through the State Budget Act to increase this kingdom. We think this is an unacceptable approach to the State Budget. We will insist because of our proposals, because of our comments and because of our vote to make this budget really balanced. If we fail, we will address the President of Ukraine and ask for the most serious application.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u170	Please, Garbage. To prepare, Lyszko gave the word to Sivuli.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, radio listeners. Volin, Party of Regions, Horbatuk Anatoly Alexiyovich Dear colleagues, on July 12, 2006, on the day of the religious festival of Peter and Paul, about 22 hours on the Rowne-Luck route near the village of Zora, there was a road accident. The official car “Opel Omega” led by the lucian city head, a member of the All-Ukrainian union “Fatherhood” Šiba Bogdan Pavlovich, encountered the car “Opel Kadat” which was passengered by four young people aged 21 to 25. As a result of the road accident, drivers and passengers of the car Opel Cadet were killed. Lutsky’s city head and companion, with bodily injuries, were hospitalized. As reported by the head of the RV of the RV of Ukraine in the province of Ravenna, the criminal case was violated on July 24, that is, only 12 days after the accident. According to a media report based on eyewitnesses, Opel Kadat’s car was moving at speeds of 65 kilometers per hour, while the city’s head car at speeds of about 180 kilometers per hour. The expert on the blood of the dead did not determine the alcohol content. The results of the blood test performed by Shiba Bogdan Pavlovich were only two weeks after the accident, while objective blood tests were available within 12 hours. According to the official version of the judicial investigation body, the city’s lukewarm head is not responsible for the accident. The Provincial Prosecutor’s Office carried out an examination of the objectivity of the criminal investigation, which resulted in no violations by the city’s head. The numerous appeals of voters to the public reception party of the region show that in this case there is a lack of objectivity and bias in the investigation of a criminal case, namely: the screening of all eyewitnesses of an accident is not taken into account, the analysis of blood at Shiba Bogdan Pavlovich is late, the criminal case has been violated in a timely manner, the use by the city's head of the service car for personal purposes at a later time, and the absence of a driver's identification raises doubts about the conduct of an objective investigation into the given fact. Taking into account the foregoing, I would like to request the most operational prosecutor's office to carry out a review of the objectivity of the criminal investigation of the accident at the hands of the Lutsky City Head of Šiba Bogdan Pavlovich, who took place on 12 July 2006 and to inform me of the deadline set by law to address this issue at the level of the city and Volina and to give answers to all the questions posed to me and to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u172	Please, Sivule Santa. Get ready, Yavorowski, I can't see. Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u173	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, our dear TV and radio audiences, I would like to point out a question that cannot be left to the care of anyone in this room who is currently concerned about every Ukrainian citizen. Nine days later, the heating season begins. How do we propose that we deal with the problems that each family faces today? disaster - stricken expansion of energy carriers, neighborhood payments, and utility bills. We know about the decision that was made yesterday to cancel the moratorium on price increases and tariffs. As an opposition, we will take the steps we must take. We think it's an illegal decision to break the Rules. We'll go our separate ways, but it probably won't calm our citizens, they're expecting other actions from us. And that's why I'm addressing the government from this rostrum. Andri Petrovich, from this rostrum, you've talked about how you can't lower the price of natural gas by more than 75 dollars to the population, because transportation costs and taxes prevent you. So I'm sorry, Andri Petrovich, taxes are in your hands. You don't have to distribute your hands, but you have to prepare an urgent law that provides for a sharp reduction in rent and other payments, and we're going to lower the price of our own gas in order not to lower the price by 75 dollars, but by 200, that's the first decision you can make today. The other one. Dear colleagues! I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the price and tariff process at the bottom has become virtually unguided. The latest printing on the Internet, from October 15 to Dnipropetrovsk, 2.7 times the rate of heating and hot water will increase. In Odessa, October 1, 78 percent of the salary. On October 1st in Ternopol, housing tariffs increase by 20 percent. In Sevastopol, twice what happens, why is it so different? We've lost control of this process, we've washed our hands, we've said it's the authority of the local authorities, and we haven't offered them anything, and they're saving everyone as much as they can. What we need to do is as a higher legislature. The law prepared by our colleague Kucherenko, who proposes the establishment of order in this area, and the process of prices and tariffs should be urgently adopted. And last but not least, you can't put everything on local budgets. We've predicted an increase in local income by 33.4 percent, the state's only increasing by 11.5. It's a lie. We've cut subsidies in the same way, and all the social costs lie on them. So now that the budget process has begun, I urge you all to increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u174	Thank you. Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u175	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! Thank God that even at the 15th year of independence our Ukraine began to claim the return of its own cultural values from abroad. A recent historian named Maxim Ostapenko found Stalin's archival order number two from the 17th year on the transfer of Cossack relics from the museum in Russia to Ukraine. It's about litigators and other regals that, after the destruction of Catherine II of Zaporozhye's Sichi, were transported to Russia. The first Soviet government agreed to hand over these items to Ukraine. During the 17-18s, a great deal of research was done on the availability of objects in various museums and archives in Russia. In July 18th, an agreement was signed between the Ukrainian Military and Revolutionary Headquarters and the Cultural Commission on the return of items stored in the Kremlin Arms Chamber, the Artillery Museum, the Kazan and the Presbyterian Councils in Petrograd. Yet Stalin’s stated order was not executed, and the Cossack relics themselves were returned to Russian foundations. Similar is the share of the Cossack treasures of the New Sici times that are now held at the Cuban Cossacks Museum in Howells. [[United States]] After the destruction of the Cossacks from Ukraine to Krasnodar, such unique things as the Gospel of 759, the military seal, the icon of the Holy Virgin’s Protector, were exported. In February 19th, they were taken abroad. Today, the authorities of the Krasnodar region are making every effort to return the museum collection to Russia. With a view to regulating the return of Ukrainian jewels to the state level, I went to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, the President, the Cabinet with a proposal for the establishment of a temporary special commission on the return of cultural values in Parliament. Frankly, I'm surprised by the position of the minister of culture, who says in his answer that the transfer of these jewels is a problem. In fact, he agrees to transfer our cultural values to Russia. I have come up with a draft decree on the establishment of a temporary special commission on the return of cultural values, which will include representatives of all the political forces of Parliament. The adoption of this decree is a matter of time, for failure or lack of interest in the State will lead to the loss of these relics forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u176	Thank you. You confirmed that Stalin was doing something useful for Ukraine. It's good to see you. Yes, dear colleagues, the time is up, but they ask me very much, then I'll give it a minute. Please, Vitenko, just a minute. Behind her is Baldirev, a minute. And Kalashnikov asks? Maybe we'll give Kalashnikov some.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u177	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As I am limited in time, honourable deputies, distinguished radio listeners, first of all, I want to really thank all the inhabitants of Winnitzkina, the heads of the district government, the district councils, the MPs, all the residents who came to meet us when we last week of the month, every last week of the month every deputy of the Supreme Council works in the districts. Thank you Cossacks, Lips, Kalinivs, Ora, Funerals for the fact that people are indifferent, joining the problems that are in the area, explaining these problems and helping us together to deal with the difficulties that we have in the country and that are particularly in all of our population areas, cities, villages, villages. 'Cause without your help, Your Honor, we're not gonna just work here. Some of the cadences are already working, and I've just come into the first cadence, and it's hard to look, but you have to learn quickly to benefit from your work. So thank you all. And as for the fact that sometimes some MPs are more active, others are more passive, they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u178	You're being very kind and you're always voting properly and you can think that you're active, and I can confirm that because you're always in the workplace. Baldirev, followed by Kalashnikov and then Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u179	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected remaining deputies, respected radio listeners. I would like to respond to the demagogue on the position of the Party of the Regions on joining NATO. Our position has always been, and will always be, clear: Ukraine, with our participation, will never join NATO, we will never forget the bombing of Serbian NATO aircraft, we will never forget the bombing of Belgrade, we will never forget the bombings of Nazi aircraft that have fallen into the Chinese Embassy, we will never forget the bombs of Nazi aircraft that have fallen into the temples of the Orthodox Church in Kosovo. This is the main reason why we believe that NATO is an aggressive military bloc and why we will never allow Ukraine to join NATO. With regard to cooperation with NATO, we could not cooperate but oppose NATO when we were part of a great empire that was on equal footing with that aggressive bloc. Today, when Ukraine is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u180	Yes. Oleg Kalashnikov, followed by Korz Vitali, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Indeed, the problem of national security today is of concern to every Ukrainian citizen. And I would like to emphasize that it is the anti-crisis coalition that this coalition has created that coalition government led by Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic is doing everything today to overcome the crises that remain in our possession. Today we are talking about the fact that the Government, Viktor Yanukovic, all members of the Government will do their utmost to keep the country warm and warm and with gas, and our families feel comfortable and secure. Regrettably, populism, unfortunately, has led the people of Ukraine into deception. I wish to state that our coalition will never allow the anti-crisis Government of Ukraine to mock our people. The people of Ukraine will live a happy and confident day of life tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u182	Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u183	A year ago, on September 21, 2005, there were parliamentary hearings devoted to the development of new information technology and telecommunications in Ukraine. As a result of these hearings, on December 1, 2005, the Supreme Council adopted Decree 3175-4 recommending parliamentary hearings on information society development in Ukraine. Some tasks have been identified for the relevant central executive bodies by the Supreme Council Committee of the President of Ukraine. In addition to these recommendations, the Supreme Council was approved in February-April of this year by the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine for 2006-2015. But this law was returned to the Supreme Council with the President's comments. But since then, the law-making work on creating development conditions has virtually ceased.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-06-m0.u184	Thank you. For those who can hear us, I report that we are working on committees and factions next week. On October 10th at the morning meeting, the Government Day is held on the implementation of the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Restricted Physical Capabilities for 2001-2005. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on October 17th. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
