ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow officials, journalists, invited to the meeting of the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, let's register. [[10:01:13]] There are 413 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Today at Roman Petrovich Immortal and Eugene Vasilovich Leapina's birthday. Let's welcome our colleagues with their holiday. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, reports. If you'd like to sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Lilia Grigorovitch. Get ready for Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u2	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! Last Saturday, the "Our Ukraine" party was convened. We were expected not to perish, not to split up, but to move into systemic opposition. All of this has led to a lively response from our parliamentary colleagues. So last night in factions, we heard a lot of talk about us, that as an opposition faction, we can only contribute as compliments from our opponents. Dear friends, today in Parliament is an extremely interesting and responsible day, more than that, unconventional. I'm talking about the new dimension of our constitutional reform that we're living with you. You and I are witnessing at all the unconventional and extremely original ways of doing our parliamentary-presidential measure of government in Ukraine. I mean, when, according to media publications, and the glory of God, we still have democracy and freedom of speech, like in a reverse pyramid, the facts that are written in the journals become the subject of consideration to the investigating special commissions that we saw with the investigating commission that studied the facts in the newspaper “2000” regarding the minister of the interior affairs of Yuri Lucenka. Today we will also have a day-to-day attempt to listen to two ministers working on the Presidential quota, and as we know, the Chief of Staff of the country and in charge of the external course is none other than the President of Ukraine. In view of this, I would like to ask my respectable friends to come to the entire session room and offer the following. I have the same publication in my hands, which is called the "Donetsk Mafia" -- an extremely deep and solid material that can be supplemented by material from the famous TV "Close Zone" from publications by the murder of a tax collector Jerokin in the Donetsk region, and all of this could be the subject of the creation of a special commission of inquiry on these facts. This is what I am telling our Parliament today, the entire Parliament, including the anti-crisis coalition, as information to think about before placing two ministers working for the President's quota on a stretch. I'm talking to our most radical opponents today. This is the subject of a special inquiry committee. I'm addressing my colleagues today in opposition from the right wing to the BUIT. We dream of united opposition. Here is a theme that should unite us. I ask you to read these materials and I appeal to the opposition wing to form a special commission of inquiry on these materials, because in Kiev they are already pressing because there are complaints that the methods of leadership in the central executive branch are beginning to resemble those.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u3	Valerius Pussykov. I can't see Uncle. Oh, Baby, please. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, good morning. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The topic that our colleague from "Our Ukraine" Lilia Grigorovich just raised is really not the most topical issue in the country today. After the return to power of Yanukovich and the company in the country, terror began in effect with regard to all — entrepreneurs, politicians, and those who sympathize with the opposition political forces. Yesterday, as you all probably already know, Bogdan Dacko, director of the “Galimpeks” firm, member of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, member of the “Fatherland” Party, was killed in Lviv. Before that, a few days earlier in Lviv, another supporter of the Block of Timoshenko was attacked. This morning, I had a conversation with the head of our faction at the Montenegrin City Council of Montenegro, Sergey Ochonk, who reported that he was being pressured by law enforcement authorities, local authorities. A few months ago, a city council member named Sergey Ochonko was killed in the same Ninja. To this end, members of the Timoshenko bloc in various cities of Ukraine were affected. It's actually a system. And when Interior Minister Lucenko claims that he doesn't see politics here, and that it's a division of spheres of influence, that it's a pure crime, it's not quite so. This is a testimony to the fact that things are really happening in the country. Which need our attention. And I propose not only to create an investigation commission to investigate these facts, but to listen to Prime Minister Yanukovic, not members of his government, but to let him come and tell us why they start again in the country after the orange revolution to kill people, why they attack MPs and where the legs of this disaster grow, this evil that returns to our country again. We have to stop it, we can only stop it by resigning this government, which causes crimes on a country-wide scale. But in order for him to retire, we need to listen to his report, and we need to keep the Constitution. I therefore call on Parliament to take a decision on hearing the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation in the country, about the killings and attacks that take place on political grounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u5	Dach passes the word to Eugene Kushnarov. Please. Get ready, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In recent times, various insinuations have been spreading around the issue of the draft Opposition Act. The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that it is necessary to express its principled position in this regard. As for the role and place of opposition, there are many different, sometimes opposite, approaches. Some even see the need to normalize the activities of the opposition as an attempt to drive into a kind of legal ghetto, referring to the fact that in most democratic countries there is no special law on opposition. But I would like to remind you that under European traditional law, all subjects are sure to comply with even unreserved standards. Unfortunately, there has been a very different practice in Ukraine. In doing so, it should be noted that the parliamentary opposition is an integral part of the State's authority, as it is formed in Parliament, the higher representative and the only legislative body. Article 19 of the Basic Law directs that public authorities and local authorities, their officials, are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. That's why the law is necessary is our principle position. So what's strange is that some non-coalition factions are actively speculating on the issue of the absence of the Opposition Act and periodically accusing the Party of Regions of deliberately blocking the project. The faction of the Party of the Regions responsibly claims to be a proponent of the Opposition Act. Moreover, it is not only our party that has real experience in opposition, but also in the spring of this year that it has proposed its own draft of this Law. We are convinced that the Opposition Act should by no means undermine the general logic of the functioning of the political system and provoke governance conflicts. This should be understood by the opposition itself, if it is indeed democratic, and not going to play by the principle: the worse it is, the better it is to provoke a crisis by coming to power at the expense of blocking the work of the executive. That's why we don't see the possibility of supporting the bill in the paper that was proposed by the BUIT. This involves funding a shadow government at the expense of the State Budget. What does that mean? What should the citizens of Ukraine as tax payers support two governments? It's not even about the fact that the bill is explicitly prescribed for a specific person. In this document, instead of monitoring functions, opposition seeks to assume functions higher than that of the President and even the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions appeals to all without exception to the opposition political forces, the more, the more they have become, now has grown, with the call to be aware.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u8	And do not wage an unsuspecting war on the bill until complete victory over common sense. We think that all the really right proposals contained in all the projects that have been registered should be taken into account in the law. In that case, we can get a law that actually guarantees the realization of all functions inherent in the opposition and does not block the normal functioning of the public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u9	Viachelav Kirilenko, please. Get ready for him, Lápinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Statement by the faction "Our Ukraine": “On November 25, Ukraine will commemorate the Day of Repression and Hunger. Organized by the Soviet Communist regime, the famine of the 32rd to 33rd years became one of the greatest crimes in human history. Within a few months, millions of Ukrainian peasants were destroyed by the authorities. Men and women, young children and old people were starving and dying in terrible torment. About 20% of Ukrainian peasants were killed by famine, and 1 out of every 3 in Poltava, Dnipropetrovska, Odessa and Kirovograd. The archival documents clearly show that the famine was deliberately organized by the USSR and CPD leaders for the purpose of physical and moral destruction of agriculture. In addition, the target of state criminals was Ukrainian agriculture, for the famines covered areas where the majority of the rural population were Ukrainians — the Ukrainian Soviet Union, Cuba, North Slobodan, and so on. The world’s ten parliaments have been recognized by the famine. However, the Supreme Council has not yet been able to legislatively acknowledge the genocide of the Ukrainian people. This week, we will consider a bill submitted by President Yushchenk that recognizes famine as genocide and respects the memory of its victims. The memory of millions of innocently dead calls for this decision on our part. He is awaited by our fellow countrymen who have survived the horrors of famine. It's waiting for the entire Ukrainian people, because there's almost no human in the country who wouldn't have lost relatives during the genocide for 32-33 years. So the hot search for so-called anti-crisis coalition of any reason not to vote in favour of this law is surprising. Surprisingly, suggestions are made to create some additional working groups or to refer to the inadequacy of taking responsibility for denying the fact of hunger. For example, dozens of countries in Europe have criminal responsibility for denying the Holocaust, including prolonged prison terms. It is impossible to imagine anyone in Israel allowing himself to deny the genocide of his people. On this background, the President of Ukraine proposes not even criminal but merely administrative responsibility for denying hunger. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that the Supreme Council must adopt a law on the recognition of famine by the people of Ukraine, so that by 25 November it will be signed by the President and made public. This is a decision that, to our deep conviction, is consolidating the country. And every MP who does not vote "yes" is in solidarity with those who are now allowing themselves to take the word hunger into their paws and talk about non-fertilization, not the deliberate destruction of millions of Ukrainians for 32-33 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u11	Catherine Lapin, please. Who? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. One day, we passed away in our lives and in Parliament on the 9th of November.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u13	Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u14	which in the calendar of memorable and notable dates is defined as the Day of Ukrainian Writing and Language. But whether we're that apathetic, or we're consciously silent about a holiday that has a direct bearing on everyone who lives in the territory from Carpathian to Donbas, from Polise to Crimea, because it's the language that makes us identify ourselves as a nation. Who and whatnot, but this language is the language of our ancestors, and I want to believe that it will be the language of our grandchildren and great-grandchildren, because the time will come when English will be prestigious. And now, unfortunately, we're going through a period where language among other factors is often the subject of political speculation and the winning card in election promises. Divide and rule, the eternal principle of political cynicism and political shortsightedness. It is not a secret that interfaith, ethnic, and other oppositions can hold generations, last generations, and poison lives in the most unexpected moments. That is why they are so willing to bind the same horse for “equity and statehood” to deepen the disease that divides Ukraine in two. But let's look at the issue of language at least once with the cold eyes of political pragmatism, by rejecting cynicism as a tool for achieving an advantage for ourselves and at this very time. The heated arguments of hot - tempered supporters and opponents of the uniqueness of the Ukrainian language did not close this problem to society because it is sometimes very difficult and sometimes impossible to fulfill the pre-election promises of milky years on the oxygen shores. And those who are happy today, and those who are happy today, are much lower than the President's popularity in the orange revolution, well know that measured by pragmatic indicators, the assessment of their official activities in their traditional regions is even lower than the political popularity of the President. And the electorate wants something. Well, let's do half the promise, give him the nationality of another language in Ukraine, raise three tariffs, double the number of national languages in Ukraine. What's next? Is that going to win the economy of Slobožina or Lvivščina tomorrow? People who appeal to the perceived problems of the Russian - speaking population pursue at least two goals: to look like saviors of the people and Fatherland, and to distract the attention of those who are saved from real problems in their territories. And now for shortsightedness. Let's look at the language not only as a means of communication or national identification, but let's look at language as one of the factors of market formation and we're looking at the undisputed truth. Trained today in a foreign culture of society will tomorrow give priority to foreign goods and to a foreign economy. I want us to feel this threat today, and when we feel it, we look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u15	Yes, the word tomenko is given by the gateman. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, prepare Kozuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I, above all, am the national MPs, the Chinese, and I address and remind you that 15 days remain until the tariff rise in Kiev. I think that, of course, when we're sitting here in the session room and we're having a little bit of communication with the kyans, who today are not laughing anymore, they're watching the work of the Kyiv City Council, which yesterday was surprised by the management's statement that the salary increase, the quarterly payment is three and a half times the first phase of the promotion that awaits the second phase of the promotion. And, as the leader of our Kiev space authority has said, the people who come to the mayor don't decide anything. I just wanted to tell them that I always thought that we only had Ukrainian citizens and there were Chinese, there were no billionaires and no money people, no matter what Kiev's billionaires are running today. Obviously, it is necessary to have a little conscience toward those elderly people, and to those who today do not know where to run with respect in a three - and - a - half word. For the first time in the history of Kiev, there was a situation when the city authorities of Kiev said that they did not know what the Ministry of Justice was. I think if we have dignity in government and in the Ministry of Justice, they will teach these officials and say that the government is a higher executive body, and the Ministry of Justice is an institution that is called upon to ensure, in accordance with the laws, the functioning of this system of local government. Because if the Ministry of Justice doesn't agree with the tariffs and legal decisions of the city, then I don't understand who's running this country. Of course, sometimes it is funny and interesting when a Kiev city head in the presence of a large number of people says that he is ready to give room to the GUAM organization, although he says, “The organization is interesting, although I have not yet joined it.” That's interesting, of course. And funny. But when we see the lines to the district administrations and to the JECKs on December 1st, I think it's going to be sad not only for the officials of the Kiev City Administration, but for us, because we're sneezers. So once again, I'm pointing out to the government and the Ministry of Justice that after the illegal Kiev City authorities have decided to move the session from 23 November to introduce these tariffs three and a half times, and I don't think anyone here needs to be told who owns the energy companies in Kiev and who gets that profit. So I'm absolutely convinced that it's time for the law enforcement authorities to ask how the billionaire authorities are going to run those copier kyans that I read about in the Ukrainian newspapers today. So once again, I want you to think about the capital of Ukraine and the people who live in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u17	I understand that, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you're very sorry you didn't go to the mayor. Cosuba is passing Samuel Catherine, please. Behind her, Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u18	Because of the reception of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I received a letter from the people of Theodosia of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea asking me to publish it in the original language. I'll announce it. “Indignantly, we condemn the conduct of our President on foreign and domestic policy, especially with regard to NATO entry, violent resistance against Russian as the second State, entry into the EP and with the brotherly peoples of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. But they are particularly outraged by the President's decree to recognize UN UPA troops as a warring party. The confirmation says that we are sending you an article from the Crimean Truth newspaper and asking you to quote it and to emphasize the attention of all Ukrainian people's deputies. It is Tatiana Samson, who, along with her friend Anna Kostuk, was sent to work in Western Ukraine after the release of German-Fashistic invaders. Do not give God, they write to anyone, ever experience what we have seen. We were looking for teachers, cultivators, and doctors. They were watched on the roadways, shot at the window, broke into the house, and killed everyone — the elderly and the children. Torture was terrible. The living were cut off by their noses and ears. Toes were cut off on the log, and pins were cut off. But especially when I was shaken by this episode, I was his unwitting witness. Several bandits broke into the village council’s house. The landlord didn't come home. There was a wife and an elderly mother and a two-year-old boy in the house. Thieves turned everything in the house they were looking for, unknown. Then they grabbed the baby by the legs and started beating his head against the wall. From the mouth, from the ears of the child, blood flowed. Oh, I'm sorry about the naturalism, and then the tiny brains flew over the wall. I know it's unbearable, it's hard to read, but people of today's generation need to know about it. I am saddened to hear today that, at a high state level, the President himself is doing everything he can to entitle heroes of the Great Homeland War and UPA U.N. soldiers. The common sense refuses to understand it. Yes, the present generation knows nothing of this tragic story. But we veterans remember everything, and we must do everything we can to prevent our grandchildren from insinuating that true heroes are the ones who fought for our land, for our Family, who fought against German-Pashistic invaders. And while we are alive, we must do everything we can to prevent the rehabilitation of UPA U.N. soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Cibenka, please. Behind him is Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today’s parliamentary week in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is marked by reports from ministries and ministers. Yesterday on Government Day, two ministries reported on their work with extremely important problems. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear a report from Mr. Tarasyuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence of Ukraine, Mr. Grizzenko. I think we will soon hear a report from the parliamentary commission on the validity of publications in the 2000 newspaper on the verification of abuse by individual representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. All of this has caused a terrible disturbance, a terrible noise in the information space of Ukraine. Some were terrified to see the President’s impeachment threatened. Take it easy, gentlemen, take it easy. Nothing extraordinary is happening. In the context of the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which initiated the transition to the parliamentary-presidential Republic, it is perfectly normal. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has appointed ministers and not only has the right to control their activities. What is more, at least one minister raised serious questions about how he manages government property. In addition, each of the high-ranking men must understand that in the government he does not characterize himself as such, and not only the political power he represents, hired by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, hired a coalition to carry out it, the coalitions, the program, and not to use the occupied office as his own father, where he is an indivisible host. Because some have already agreed, like Louis XIV, to the position: “I am a state.” So his opinion is the position of the state, and what the Prime Minister says is his personal position. And for the rest, dear colleagues. Today's statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" – the organizers and instigators of today's creeping famine has once again testified to their attempts to stay in Ukraine's political sky. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Kilincarov passes the word Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, first of all, to their colleagues in the anti-crisis coalition, would like to make a statement and draw the attention of our voters to the challenges that we have to address. Many today are concerned about our voters' problems, which are related to the level of wages as tariffs go up, the level of unemployment, the incompetence of our young people -- that is, the problems of these very many, and unfortunately they are getting worse. But what is the problem of today’s power in the face of political reform? Once again, I would like to state formally from this rostrum: the Communist faction warns society that official orange sabotage has begun in the country. The President is in charge of this orange sabotage personally, because the President is blackmailing the Supreme Council, the President is setting out certain conditions, protecting those ministers who represent his political forces by manifesting non-professionalism, by being undisciplined in organizing the work in the Cabinet of Ministers. But the danger of orange sabotage is another, because since 2005, the entire power vertical has been established by the President, as he appoints the heads of district and district administrations, which gives them instructions to comply with decisions taken by the Cabinet of Ministers and the anti-crisis coalition or not to comply. Here they have shown their incompetence today – they have not prepared the boilers, made no calculation at the time of the transfer from gas to solid or liquid fuels, did not repair the capital networks and put their helplessness in raising tariffs. I would like to stress once again that today we must take decisions that are respected by the coalition colleagues and lower tariffs and make recommendations to our Government by withdrawing VAT payments to reduce housing and utility tariffs by 20 per cent. In this situation, I think these will be practical steps that will bring us results. There's another problem. Today, I would like to ask all of us to draw attention to the statement made by those who, today or often speaking from this rostrum, say: “European choice”, “European choice”. Respected colleagues in the anti-crisis coalition, Europe has shown us its configuration, stating that, in the near future, it will not accept short-term and long-term anyone in the European Union after Romania and so on. I mean, we have to stop these voluntary and populist statements about the European Union and get to the bottom of it. What do I think it should be about? We must today begin large-scale negotiations on the Single Economic Area and be equal among the equal. When Ukraine acts as the founder of the Single Economic Area, we will also have appropriate preferences in this community to address our problems with you. The conclusion is, therefore, to immediately resign the orange ministers, to replace them with professionals from the anti-crisis coalition and, of course, to adopt a programme on Ukraine's accession to the Single Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Davimukka has one minute, I've got another one or two minutes out of my reserve. Two minutes, please, Davemuk. Kenzier? Kendzior microphone, two minutes. Candace microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u24	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Unfortunately, I don't have three minutes to announce a full performance. I still have time to respond to some of the thoughts of Communist Simonek, who said that we don't need to go to Europe because the European Union said that no one would be there for the next 10 years. Ukraine, unfortunately, has also become in line with the European Union and the fate of entry is unknown and only because the European Union, observing that in Ukraine today has become active this prehistoric communist mess, which is a major obstacle to Ukraine's advancement as a civilized state into Europe. And then, the distinguished Ukrainian people, the respected Ukrainian patriots and those who are sitting in the hall, so that Ukraine can truly become part of a number of democratic, civilized states, so that Europe wants to have the Ukrainian State with it as soon as possible, such political powers that dictate today, as it were, the Ukrainian people, whether to be in Europe or not, whether to be in the European Union or in the International World Trade Organization, are the main pillars of Ukraine's promotion to a democratic world. All efforts to preserve Ukraine in this space, where all this wild is flourishing, which we have experienced over the past 70 years, of course, such a prospect for Ukraine is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u25	Please, Simonenko, a line. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I do not take offense to this person, respected colleagues and respected radio audiences. The point is that he acknowledged that Europe does not take nationalist crap into its own European community -- that's the question. And that's a long time ago. I would also like to draw attention to the next fundamental question that those who today call themselves nationalists are no longer entitled to call themselves that because they have become cosmopolitans and collaborators, they have become political forces without the Family, because the fourth wave of immigration is your mess. Something is coming out of Ukraine and you have already acknowledged yourself at the All-Ukrainian and World Forum of Ukrainians, which is the fourth wave of immigration from Ukraine. You made people leave their homes, you made people forget that this is where they're based, tradition, and they're gone looking for the best share outside. So what this cave anti-communist has to say is that this savagery, which, let's say, has long been understood around the world. The people are swarming with this savagery and cave-like anticommunists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u27	Yeah, well, for the record, he was carrying a party ticket from a KPSS member, so he wasn't always an anti-communist. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, performances, statements, announcements, replicas are complete. We will move to the realization of our agenda, but before that I will allow myself to introduce to you the new representative of the President of Ukraine in Parliament, Roman Mihajlovich Zvarić. [[Applause]] As you recall, he promised us a happy life when he would represent the President in Parliament. Here is the issue: the reports of Ukrainian Defence Minister Griesenka and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Tarasyuka, on the performance of the tasks assigned to the ministries and the implementation of state policy in the relevant areas. Committees, committees are proposing, in accordance with the Rules, the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council: statements by ministers for 20 minutes, questions by each of them for 20 minutes, and statements by a representative of two committees that have considered the matter are the Committee on National Defence, Security and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - up to 10 minutes. This is how the rules of procedure are proposed. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to propose another proposal. Yes, indeed, we're going to hear information, we're going to ask questions to ministers that will inform us about what they're doing to meet the requirements that we made when we made an agreement on the establishment of an anti-crisis coalition. And I am convinced that there will be a principle of conversation and responsibility as to what these ministers are doing. But I would like to propose, Adam Ivanovich, let's still give time and for speeches, so that we can base our position, and express our wish: on what and in what directions we need to work for our anti-crisis government, which issues, in our view, are the main issues, and what are the shortcomings. And I'm deeply convinced that these ministers need to make decisions today, to resign so that they don't interfere with us to ensure the sovereignty of the state and foreign policy. I propose that we set aside time to discuss the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u29	Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav. Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u30	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Respectful colleagues, of course, can have an anticrisis coalition with an arithmetical majority of the votes that they want to resign, including themselves. But there is a need to respect the laws and regulations. We have 235 articles that clearly outline the issue of the reports of officials elected by the Supreme Council. The norm of this article says that first the deputies should be given the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, other written material related to the hearing of the official’s report or information. These materials are given to the national deputies no later than three days before the day of consideration. Dear Adam Ivanovich, not for three days -- nothing is sustained, nor is there any material at all for this moment. I have a question: Is this going to be a political settlement or a report? If you really want to hear the report, give the National Deputies material that will help them learn about the nearly two - year activities of ministers Griesenka and Tarasjuk in their positions. And don't break the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u31	Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Since the violations involved in this issue today show that, in fact, the anti-crisis coalition has already made its decision, I propose not to waste time. The point is that today, in the daily message, there are many important bills. So I suggest that the ministers' speeches be limited to 7-10 minutes, not 20 minutes. And you don't have to discuss anything. You've already decided on your board of coalitions, so what are we going to talk about here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u33	Yes, fellow believers! No, no, I'm one of the factions. Your faction's already been there. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues thus made suggestions. Now we're going to figure out how to get the necessary documents and so on, the Accounting Chamber. I think it's better if they don't draw those conclusions. It will be. That's one thing. The other one. The Rules do not state that the Rules refer to the matter of the Court of Auditors. There was a suggestion that it would really be in line with 235 articles, and she said that if there was a decision of the Supreme Council and she could discuss the reports, there would be a proposal to discuss the reports. I propose such an offer. Allowing a single representative from each faction, but within five minutes, to discuss the reports of both ministers. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[10:42:20]] For 239. So prepare yourself, please identify the factions. After five minutes of both reports, I remind you again, both reports. Let us move on to the realization of this question. I'm inviting you to the rostrum. Yeah, sorry, sorry. There was another proposal by Lasha that we have many important laws, and we will all adopt those laws. We're all going to adopt these laws. And there was an offer to shorten the performance from seven to twenty minutes. I think let's leave for twenty minutes, that's the standard. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u34	The materials you're about to hear from the minister's reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u35	Don't wave your hand. I invite you to Gryzenka Anatoly Stepanovich's rostrum. Please, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I thank you for the opportunity to address the Ukrainian National Deputies and for, including journalists present here, to report on how the Armed Forces are developing, which are problematic issues, how state policy is being implemented in the military sphere and what issues together we can resolve at the legislative level. Since I am already working in the third government, in this government for only three months, I would like to point out that I have sent a copy of the White Paper to every national MP. Ukraine's defence policy in 2005.' If, for some reason, one of you has not received, we are ready to provide more copies. This is a document that presents the results of the Ministry of Defence's activities in 2005. So I'm going to talk about them very briefly. And two more brief remarks before I go to the report. I wanted to introduce you to the leadership of the Armed Forces and the members of the College who are present in the government lounge. These are the people with whom we share exactly the principles of state policy in the military sphere. And the second. Yesterday there was a joint meeting of two committees: foreign affairs and national security and defence, and it was determined that the Ministry of Defence's report would be limited to public information. At the same time, I would like to say that a secret report on our activities transmitted to the head of the parliamentary committee and to those national deputies who are allowed to work with secret documents may be made available to them through, respectively, the committee's apparatus headed by Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach. And now, essentially. What is done in the armed forces, and what is being done now? First, thanks to the rule of law, thanks to the decisions taken by the National Security and Defence Council and the President as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, there are now clearly defined tasks to be carried out. To be honest, this is the first time it's been done at this level of detail. The leadership of the armed forces knows what to do for the next six years, because we have a document entitled “The National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the period 2006-2011”. I'd like to say, without being too modest, that the Ministry of Defense was the first one to produce such a strategic document in the government. Adopted by the President in March of this year by a signed document called the strategic plan for the deployment of the Armed Forces for the first time in six years. It's a document of particular importance, and I can't talk about it in detail. In fact, however, this document defines the very specific tasks that the military forces must carry out in seven typical situations. These 7 typical situations are the sum of the six-year work of the General Staff, the other force structures that are involved in protecting our Prime Minister State, the Secretary of the RNBO, and was approved by the President of Ukraine. These are absolutely specific tasks that cover the entire range of potential threats and that define tasks both in peace and in special times and in wartime. Next thing you know, what our military is supposed to do. Two months ago, personally by the Minister of Defence and Chief of General Staff, Lieutenant General Kirichenko, who is here, I stress, has personally signed the forms of all the fighting forces and connections to a separate brigade and regiment included. This was the first time. And from now on, every brigade commander, every regiment commander knows exactly what tasks he's preparing his troops for, how he's going to act in one situation or another. And these are the parameters that test both the preparation of the relevant section and the merger and the General Staff, and the inspection of the Ministry of Defence. I would like you to understand, the army can perform and perform very important functions in peacetime. This is not about some powerful function of a criminal nature, but there are other divisions. But these things that we bring from experience, we learn from our mistakes and from other people’s mistakes. For example, avian influenza problem arose. Together with the Ministry of Emergency Situations, we resolve this issue. Because it's just us, they don't have it, we're giving it away. There was a problem in Sevastopol with drinking water. Here the commander of the naval forces, who is present, has provided help with drinking water for this city. There was a problem in Alcevsk, and it could happen, I'm knocking on wood, next winter. An account has been taken of all the means that will enable people to be warmed up. Other questions arise, all of which are placed in these forms, precisely in these battle plans. The other one. I would like the national MPs present to know that military training is a priority. This was not always the case. And I had to break people's psychology. Because longtime commanders were evaluated by other parameters, by economic parameters, by how the grass or snow was painted and so on. The priority now is combat training. In 2005, you'll see in the white book, we've managed to raise the level of combat training by 40 percent, 50 percent in individual directions. These are things that are measured in flight hours, in motor vehicles, in teaching numbers, in parachute jumps and so on. I'm going to say that this year we're not going to be able to go beyond that. And the reason is funding. The second is about combat training. We refused to conduct artificial, premeditated military training. When the line of the state border was drawn in the middle of the map of Ukraine, we were politically chaste and feared even thought, even in plans to take some steps in the planning process so that, God forbid, the political interests of our neighbors or of any other country. We're doing both command and command, and we're doing real learning on the real agenda and the actual plans. We gave it up. I think that's absolutely right. Teaching is interspecies. Because the modern understanding of the armed struggle, and this is what everyone here understands, foresees the inclusion of all spaces — the sea, the land, and the air. And that's why today, and the commanders will confirm, there have been times when both the Chief of Staff and all three commanders of the armed forces met at the same range. Because they teach together. And that's the guarantee of success. We've done a lot this year. And I think national MPs can also be proud of their army. Much has been done for the first time. For example, we first fired air-to-air missiles at night. And even in the Crimean newspapers, there was a report that UFOs were flying over Theodosia. They weren't UFOs -- they were our Mig-29 planes and the U.S. 27. Unfortunately, for the first time, a man at the level of a brigade commander, a colonel, pressed a battle button for the first time. She was 15 years old and had to see the tears in the officer’s eyes. It was done. For the first time in this year, air traffic was decommissioned at night. That's not what we had. For the first time, we had a complex fire strike involving aviation, the air force, the air force, the air force, which we picked up and the land component of artillery. The largest military training “Clean Sky 2006” involved over 4,000 people and 80 aircraft, helicopters and aircraft, virtually all the airports in our country. This went smoothly, without losing anything. 22 ships -- we didn't have one either. We've carried out the major launches of the C-200 air-rocket complex, the C-300 long-range action radius. Remember that tragic incident when we crashed the plane. These rifles were carried out in the territory of the Russian Federation, the Chelingba range, all of them. This is documented by Russian experts. And this is also a great success, including the commander of the Air Force, Lieutenant General Tropkin, because this year the Armed Forces announced "The Rock of Air Force". We give priority to the preparation of a united rapid response force. This is our strongest, most mobile component. Unfortunately, in the main defense forces because of limited funding, we were forced to limit ourselves to training and commanding, actually in classes. And that's sad because officers lose their motivation, military personnel lose their motivation for their service. Third thing I'd like to say. The principle of reform of the Armed Forces, which is incorporated into the State Program. Multifunctionality. Each part of the compound prepares for various functions in different situations. We can't keep huge numbers and absorb huge budget resources. That's why we're ready to do different tasks. And a gradual transition to a contractual principle is a guarantee that this preparation will be preserved, and not every year it will go into reserve. The second principle is mobility. When you have a limited number, you have maximum mobility. This year, including for the first time, air force training, radiological military divisions, air defence units with exits from a permanent location. And it didn't. We've formed a mobile hospital, which is actually the acquisition of the entire state, which within an hour and a half can be removed from place and go to any point in our country, to perform peace tasks. And for the following year, the task is to form five such hospitals. It will also be our acquisition. The next principle is to interact with the divisions of other states: both NATO and not NATO. That is why I stress the importance of international learning. The political reasons for this year are understandable. But we have already drafted a bill that is now being considered by the National Security and Defence Council. I would very much like to adopt the draft law on military training in a timely manner. Without military training, there is no army, without international military training, we cannot send our soldiers after you, I emphasize, with a decision to perform your duties. They will die if they are not taught. And we can't let that happen. Major changes are taking place in the military’s management system. We create a unified operational command at General Headquarters. This is a new body of military administration, which will have officers, generals of all three kinds, and it will be in charge of the following year's peacekeeping units, since 2008 with any use of the Armed Forces. This trend corresponds to the advanced trends of developed countries and advanced armies. We move on to a contract in a step. One and a half years of experimentation. We know what the motivations are, we understand what legal, financial, other mechanisms need to be used to carry out the President's task, and that 2010 should be the last year when we have candidates. A contract army is a stronger army, it's an army that better stores a weapon in which they master a military profession to perform various tasks. And this is our perspective. Next. We release the Armed Forces from performing non-proprietary functions, inproper tasks. 216 state-owned enterprises are now an absolutely abnormal situation. And we have a plan to get them privatized through the Holding Fund, through reform, to reduce that figure to 40 -- just those that the Armed Forces can't afford. Twenty-one percent of the soldiers this year are already feeding on a new scheme – without food in the kitchen, without cleaning potatoes, without washing dishes and everything else, without distraction from the main tasks. For the next year it's going to be increased. It's very positive for both the commanders and the soldiers themselves. We're clearing the army, sorry, from the filth. One hundred pigs have been eliminated and for a few months all will be eliminated. The abnormal situation of Parliament’s spending is the cost of food, and in some parts of the military, as many as 300 kg of meat is raised in the pighouse. This is one big pine. He is served there by four soldiers and five other flagmen without engaging in combat training. That won't happen. A very important factor is the modernization of armed military technology. In fact, she was 15 years old. And in fact, for 15 years, we didn't have the right funds. If this trend persists, I would like the MPs to know honestly -- one or two years later, in the main defence forces, up to 50 percent of the weapons won't be viable. After three or five years and in a combined response force, the main component of 30, or 50 percent, will be non-performing. We're going to have to invest tens of billions to raise an army. We need to plan these funds now. Next. As minister I took a course on transparency in all matters. All meetings of the College are held with the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputies. They were already involved in 64 years of my work. We have published the White Book for the first time and every year until the Day of Fatherland's Defender on February 23, we will issue such a White Paper. 30,000 copies, in 1,500 English. So that our partners know what we're doing and that tax payers, university students, in every military unit know where the budget goes. The Ministry of Defence has formed a public council headed by Anatoly Lopata, which 76 have entered, I stress, by nongovernmental public organizations that are concerned with defence, military protection, and so on. The decision of the Defence Minister in the military was made by officers who were given serious powers in the transparency plan to participate in the meetings of the Athentic Commissions, to participate in the meeting of the Housing Commissions for the transparent distribution of housing, to address commanders with questions that concerned officers and were given the responsibility of commanders to resolve those issues. This mechanism, to be honest, is just starting to work, but it's a big perspective. Our web portal. One of the most visited and listed information that has not been provided before is the list of surplus assets that Kabmin approves; the information about the tenders, the decisions made, and the purchase. Please, you can check. Next. I'd say that the fundamental profound changes in the state's mobilisation system that didn't take place for 50 years. It's an invisible job done by people who are sitting in a government bed right now. It's given a huge result, we've removed from our economy according to the realities that have come together now, not in the 1960s, the problem of 25 billion dollars. It's not just a war task that's fixed on paper. These were the “frozen” production lines, these were frozen material resources, which were then updated, cheated and walked in mysteriously at what price. This has been reviewed. We have removed the tasks of our manufacturing companies for 1,500 species of nomenclature and are preparing a decision for over 500 more. We reviewed the unbroken reserves, which were still in the Soviet era. They are severely reduced, and these costs go to combat training. We've taken down the human resource requirements four times in stock. Funny to say, more than six million reserve workers! But those who don't prepare don't need them. Ukraine's friendly state, it's not in an enemy environment. They're taking these things off. We took down the government's order to prepare the reserve officers, reduced it to nothing. We've got surplus reserve officers: over 700,000. And this budget is being saved. Military pulpits are severely reduced. To be honest, it would have to be reduced to zero. But the honourable MPs ask some of them to leave, so they're left behind, and they're only learning at their own expense those people who don't believe they're going to make the transition to a professional army. The armed forces of the past year handed over a huge frequency of resources to society. This has not been done for decades. When this decision was made in the government, and here are the government members who were with me at the time, this figure was announced: that just for the issue of open licences, the state receives more than $500 million a year through a transparent procedure. How much will mobile communication, television, radio, and so on be developed? This resource has been held by the Armed Forces for decades as a dog in blue, sorry. He's loyal, and so that's another argument that the army is working for society and can rely on understanding its budgetary needs. We pass on surplus forests, land, which also refer to non-property functions for the Armed Forces. The forests will be transferred to 29,000 hectares, to 78,000 hectares, which are superfluous. A decision has already been made -- and there's former Minister Alexander Baranowski here -- the seven radgos, the radgos of the name passed on to the MinAPC, which is absolutely not the profile of the Ministry of Defence. Next. Serious changes are taking place in human resources policy, because people are the main ones, without them any decision of the minister, the general staff, the commanders, it's all going to be zero. And the key here is the officer's corps. Thus, serious changes have been made to the human resources policy system. I'd like to take down the generals' questions. One hundred and eighty-eight generals in the Armed Forces. That's less than the average of the world's armies. If you see a lot of generals, it's not in the Armed Forces -- it's the S.B.I.S., the I.M.S., the tax police, even the foresters are carrying general drives. We put the ratio of older and younger officers in order. We've introduced the General Staff rotation mechanisms, the military and these mechanisms are already in operation. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u37	Yeah, let's get this over with. Finish, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u38	Thank you. One minute. We now evaluate officers by their personal performance in all kinds of preparation and how they manage their unit, not just automatically assigning military titles. And lastly, the budget and the sad. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what kind of decision you're going to make on the basis of the report, but I'd like a separate line there, please, the government has to implement the budget resolution that you've adopted. The Parliament's budget resolution on weapons has not been implemented. That's not true, because 24.6 percent of the GDP that the army supposedly allocated is attributed, and that's contrary to the Budget Code, the pension. It's not going to the army. In fact, it's set up and I can prove it less than this year. And now, just so you know, it's not just journalists and society watching, every barracks has a television set on. People are waiting for the army to die. I've detained thousands of officers who are ready to be released. Please support the army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Yes, please, we'll have 20 minutes to ask. I remind you, Anatoly Stepanovich, that in and out of question one minute, and in answer one minute. So please be informed that the microphone will be switched off. Please, Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u40	Stepan Kurpil, Timoshenko Street. Mr. Secretary, I don't have any claims against you, especially after your report. I think you're a modern minister of defense and one that suits the national interests of Ukraine. Do you not consider the attempt of the anti-crisis coalition to challenge you on a carpet as a fight against the President of Ukraine as an attempt to foment some political unrest and halt Ukraine's accession to NATO?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I wouldn't want to give political evaluations. The army is deported and the secretary of defense is also unpartisan. I would like to point out that, in the previous composition of the Supreme Council, and in the present composition of the Supreme Council, the parliamentary committee with which we work most, which includes all factions, has always been the army, and the issues brought up as a legislative initiative, have been treated with respect. And all the discussions that were going on in the professional world, including those that were closed, were in the tolerance mode, and I had no reason to make any negative assessments. I view this as an opportunity to bring to you what's going on in the army and at the same time to propose those decisions that we can jointly make, which belong to your sole competence. [[Maybe someone else had a motive to invite me here.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u42	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u43	I want to ask a question, not as a national deputy in Ukraine, but as a mother, a woman whose son has fulfilled his sacred duty. And I remember what a disgrace it was for the family, for the parents whose son did not serve in the Armed Forces. You're talking about contracts now, you're talking about something else. Please tell me, is this not a powerlessness on your part, your contribution to the overthrow of the authority of our army, your consent to the corruption that thrives in the army? For look who is serving in the Armed Forces: the children of the poor, those who cannot be redeemed from serving in the army. I want to say more, Your Honor, you have done nothing to enhance the authority of the army, your home is NATO. We only hear from your mouth “NATO, NATO, NATO”. So I think you should volunteer and retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. First. I'm asking you not to define me. My home, Motherland, Ukraine. My native village, Bogachivka, of the Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region, and the city of Watutin, where my parents live, and the city of Kyiv, where my family lives. That's the first one. The other one. That is why, in order not to serve the poorest, Parliament has adopted a law, not “On a general military duty”, but “On a military duty”, in 15 minutes before the end of its last session. It was never common. Eight percent, seven percent, ten percent. The rest went to the wing or paid bribes in the military and so on. Military personnel, professionals, ask the commanders, they support a professional army. Conduct surveys among professionals. A professional is the person who likes weapons that guard weapons, that acquires skill and doesn't leave in a year. We put money into a person, and she left in a year. Here comes the new money again, and the parts aren't ready again, they can't do the tasks. So professionally, it's the right thing to do. Moreover, changes to the Law on the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u45	Mikhailo Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the deputy Galunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u47	Galunenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u48	Galunenko, faction of Party of Regions. Dear Anatoly Stepanović, in two years you have been able to contribute to the destruction of the enormous material values of the Ministry of Defence, the land of the property of the rest base. One of the fresh examples is the illegal disposal of virtually free of charge Kitchkine turbogas through artificially accelerated bankruptcy. And you have forbidden your representative in court to defend the interests of the Ministry of Defence. How do you explain your appointment to responsible positions of authority? For example. The Director of the Air Force of the Ministry of Defence is a non-professional with a questionable reputation who has been dismissed from the army on official incompatibilities. And more. In the autobiography presented in this room, you wrote that yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u49	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, raises the issue of corruption in his second speech. If the hall really wants to know the truth, if the hall is really not afraid to hear this truth, and if the hall is ready to hear the truth about the numbers they call, I'm ready to give an answer. I'm asking you to give me at least 7 minutes to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please calm down. Each committee has the guidance of the Audit Authority on what they found there. This information is sent to the Attorney General's Office, so let him handle it, study it. You and I are not investigators. So please, we're not investigating, and we won't be investigating right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to speak with you in a responsible manner, and I'd like to not be interrupted. There is a violation of a law that the Attorney General does not respond to. The help he's walking now is the order, it's the wrong information, and it's a document that's violated at least 3 articles of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u53	which violated at least 3 articles of the law that you approved. That's just to be clear. In the Ministry of Defense, I'll say, the Ministry of Defense has actually conducted the audit of the Chief Auditor's Office. There is the Act on State Audit Authorities. The law provides that after the audit is carried out within five days, the document should be submitted to the minister in which the audit was conducted. The audit was completed a month and a half ago, there is no audit in nature, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law. That's the first one. Instead, some sort of analytical note-help. We already had, the analysts are offering, the dungeons, you remember. I made a written request to the Head of State and to the Prime Minister to submit, by law, an act of audit, which the minister is obliged to sign or simply sign, or to make his warning, because to each of the absurd accusations, where 6.6 billion bracelets have been stolen, 20 million dollars a day, I have not received such funds from the budget this year, you will excuse me. So for every charge, ready to give a written explanation, I don't have that opportunity in the government. I went to the Attorney General's office. The Deputy Attorney General of Korniak pointed out that: (1) the five - day term, the act does not exist in nature; (2) the law, which you have adopted, forbids the Head of the Central Intelligence Agency to distribute these materials before the results of the audit are activated; and they spread in the media; and the ministers and the Ministry of Finance are slobbering. It's a second violation of the law. 3. I turned to it, and I looked at it, and the law provided for both disciplinary and criminal liability. On three occasions, the Attorney General’s deputy did not respond. So I would like these issues to be discussed without breaking the law. And if you say essentially, essentially, because that's the same thing with the Attorney General's Office. I can give you just a few examples. In the materials of the Attorney General’s Office, there is a violation in the Ministry of Defence of the conduct of housing tenders worth 50 million dollars. I don't have any illusions. But there were no tests by the Attorney General during my activities, no tendering committees. Similarly, there was no review of the tender committees by the Central KRU, a figure from the air, each of you may be so accused. That's not gonna happen. The other one. The Attorney General's Office claims that the Ministry of Defence is growing the death of people and calls it 85 this year versus 56 last year. On the contrary, it's shrinking, I'm ready for every answer. And what I've heard about specific issues is that I've heard from the national MPs, some of them say that I should be in prison, called Sevastopol, Kickkine, Lugansk, Kiev. For every file, court decision, attorney general's case is closed and, to be clear, dear friends, in fact, the most abuse of property that the Ministry of Defence does not deal with is the Cabinet-authorized structure. At the Ministry, when I came in, there were two businesses that the previous governments had five years ago, and they had the right to implement real estate. I, Minister of Defense of Gritsenko, have filed and denied them such a right. No forerunner did. Now, the biggest abuses to make you understand, and this is a legislative issue, at the property assessment stage. Thus, the Ministry of Defense has nothing to do with the valuation of property. This holding fund determines the methods and the holding fund issues certificates to 4,500 private companies that make an assessment. Ask them a question. I don't appreciate property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u54	Please, Kiselov instead of Pridranski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u55	Minister, although the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly denied you the right to conduct military exercises in Feodosia, you and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yehanurov, have introduced foreign troops into Feodosija. And it was only that the Crimea public had not allowed you to conduct these exercises. But especially cynical is what you personally said was that the Party of Regions and Communists broke down the resort season by organizing protests. You may not answer that question. Now it's a matter of substance. On the substance of the second question. Crimea Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated criminal proceedings for the illegal privatization of the Yaltinski Sanatorium in the centre of Yalta. You yourself were ordered to do so. And after the Crimea Prosecutor's Office handed the case over to the Kiev Military Prosecutor's Office, the case was buried there safely. You don't know that? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u56	Since there were two questions, I'd like two minutes. First. We need military training. The legal aspects of this teaching have given clarification to the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General’s Office, and there are better lawyers than in the Ministry of Defence. My appeal to the representatives of the Party of the Regions involved only one that the mayor of the city of Feodosius had been informed of these teachings as early as February. I can even bring in copies of the feudal newspapers, and they've accused the minions of being a bull of news, that's all. Now, about Yalta. I took this package with me. 2000 It's built on the basis of the Yaltic sanatorium of the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defense, not my order. There's a manager who's more than just Kuzmuk, but it doesn't matter, I don't want to give any grades. A leader against whom criminal cases are committed is appointed, Marchuk. Next. Acts of verification that were in my archives. Disappointment of the State Enterprise’s core funds
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u57	Yeah, Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm stressing again, I'm focusing on the question, the answer to one minute. So please be guided. Follow me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u58	Anatoly Stepanovich, you must not be disrespected, you are a sincere person, and you are sincerely expressing your political views. You have them to a greater extent, even the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Defense, you may say so, so you are among strangers and strangers among your own. I quote you. The friendly state, it's not in an enemy environment. You're talking about Ukraine. Let's say that the general question, the accession to NATO will change this position -- the friendly state is not surrounded by enemies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u59	Dear friends, here's a question, for someone psychological, for someone perhaps valuable, I'd like us to look at it in the legislative plane. You passed the law. You have passed the law that I, as a minister, am bound to do. I'm doing it. There's a final goal, which was confirmed by today's Prime Minister in the government that I'm working on, to join NATO. Accordingly, the government approves for each year a work plan for cooperation, which then goes to the President. I underline, by the government, that I have an obligation to carry it out. I'm doing it. As far as my personal sympathy is concerned, you know them. And I believe that NATO membership will provide us with greater security assurances, first and foremost, from the point of view of the security of the citizen, not of the state. Because if we were to think about protecting the state, we could be able to do so in the Tashkent Treaty. But from the point of view of the comfort of the citizen, the protection of him, including from the authorities, these standards in NATO and the European Union are higher, and that's where we should go. This is my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u60	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Michael Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u62	Mikola Sivuliski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Minister! Yesterday the Supreme Council adopted amendments to the 2006 Budget Act. You've finished your speech by asking to increase funding, so here I'm saying that the funding of pensions for the retired Armed Forces is reduced by 105 million. What is the reason? What is it? Is this an approach so special to your coalition ministry, or is it a systemic flaw? That's the first one. And the second. When we decide whether our weapons or dual-purpose products should be demanded abroad, we are asked, "Do you use this technique yourself?" Yesterday, by the same bill, the coalition majority withdrew 200 million from the production of AN-70. How do you appreciate that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. First. I may disappoint you, but I support this decision. They were objective. After AN-70 you have to figure out what to do with Russia now because it's out of this project, and that's why these costs have been removed since this year, they won't be used under any circumstances. And what they're talking about in pensions is how many people have been able to get rid of what calculations they have. There is no pressure, no unreasonable decision. The question is different, and you're asking it right. In fact, we have legislation that stimulates the liberation that protects the military. But the people who serve do not have the motivation, believe me. 550 bucks is the contractor's money. 730 or 850, as the lieutenant will serve, with an average salary per country of a thousand dollars. So for a thousand bracelets, the company commander will be out only for the tenth year of service. It's a man without a place to live, a wife without a job. They don't have anything at home. Go to them. This has never been the case, nor in Soviet times, ever. And now they're watching and listening in the barracks. We have to solve this question. And these are, unfortunately, not budgeted. Why I'm talking. The budget resolution is not implemented by you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u65	Please, Alexander Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Mr. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u67	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u68	Anatoly Stepanovich, I would like to support you in that I am clearly a person who has spent a year and eight months in Afghanistan, I don't understand the general mobilization of all those who want to serve in the army. I am absolutely convinced that only a professional army, where an army is a profession worthy and honorable, can and will draw the attention of society to such work as the work of an officer and the service of a soldier. I have a question: would it not reduce criticism to the Ministry's address so that the Ministry would actually transfer all the property belonging to its department to municipal property on the condition that utilities or territorial communities sell it at auction and a large part of the money that comes from that money goes to offices? Then the army wouldn't trade and there wouldn't be any claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u69	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, for your question. You know, I've been asking this question at the National Security and Defence Council meeting with the President, with the Chief of the Supreme Council and with the Prime Minister. But then the room has to make a responsible decision, which was not so long ago, but in Soviet times all the time, stop giving the army the money for the special fund. If the budget is allocated under the General Fund and the Budget Act does not require the Ministry of Defense to transfer something for implementation, all of you will be supported. Now, this year, three billion dollars actually put a defense minister's deputy on the holding fund for the army. To be admitted, these costs come, if they come, only in December. And the specific article is through the holding fund 176 million. And of those 140 for General Kirichenko's combat training, and 36 for the two projects you write letters about. Mikolayev is "Corvet" and this whole "Coust" and "Oplet" is gone, zero, and if more precisely 0.04 percent. [[Kharkiv]] I would like to see the Minister receive the budget approved by the Supreme Council and not be bothered by the Ministry of Defence at all. But then take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u70	Please, Mankovsky passes the word Kirichenko Ludmila microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u71	Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, I'm not a military man, but I very much understand your last phrase from the report that you said the army is practically broken. And yet I want to draw your attention once again to the fact that it's broken with your hands because what you're saying today is an act by the C.R.I., that you don't know it. As head of the Ministry, you should have known that all the acts of the CIA were signed by your department directors. And I saw those signatures. And you, as Minister, should know that, most importantly. Thus, with regard to the CRU's actions, assets have been removed for 2.6 billion grevens, land for 1.7 billion grevens, stolen from the State by its own soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. I would ask very much if you could give me three minutes to answer, because Mrs. Kirichenko is an unusual lady. Dear Ludmila Fedorovna, if I told you everything, I think your colleagues in the faction would be ashamed! I wasn't going to do that. If you come to the Ministry of Defence and say, "I have an economic interest in the Ukr. Bud State Enterprise." I have no economic interest in him, you have. I have a public interest. If you're covering up and covering up your own tens of budget requests for Mr. Garyachov Sergia, who is now in search of which criminal case and which, as I'm told, is hidden even in you at Panaso Mirny in your public reception. This is the man who brought three KRAZs with stones, placed them, blocked the entrance to the Ministry of Defense, and who embezzled her family, copied the money. And if we had really law enforcement authorities, they would only verify that what I have, he writes to the head of the enterprise, “your son joins the legal company that the raiders organize in. I don't have any economic interest before.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u73	Two more minutes. Talk to me, Anatoly Stepanovich. Answer the questions, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u74	It's okay, isn't it? Well, I'd like to make it clear, my dear friends, because the accusations of corruption are a constant one. I took some papers and I just want to show you. So let's at least say honestly half the truth. I was appointed on February 4, 2005. I have a list of thousands of hectares: Kyiv, Balaklava, Kharkiv, signed: Third February – Balaklava, Sevastopol Bay, Third February – Sevastopol, Szytova, 1st February – Sevastopol, Kruglaya Bay, 3rd February – Sevastopol, Mihajlivska Street, 3rd February – Szytova. The list is huge. Who did this? I'll tell you what, Mr. Rudkowski, not Minister of Transport, who is now in charge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And until Alexander Alexander is released from this position, this is a man known to all the Armed Forces, I will not believe that at least a faction of socialists wants to fight this. I transferred all these materials to the D.A.'s office and handed them over to Korniak himself -- zero response, zero. So let's talk concretely. Minister of Defense Grizzenko, to be clear, and I am now being heard by all the people, I have kept the word that the President here has spoken: my hands have not stolen anything. I didn't take any government money, I didn't take any acres, hundreds, square feet of state land. I didn't take any shares in any of the businesses. I said, even when I'm using a service car to take the kid to the hospital, because I can't, I'm paying for every "Motoresurs" ticket, and they're all wired. No one's going to accuse me of corruption, Mrs. Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Sophia Fedorovna, I'll get you out of the place. For the line, please. Dear colleagues, the report, that is, the report and the answers to the minister’s questions. Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I beg of you all, I understand your emotions. But that's why we made the decision, but that's why we made the decision with you that a representative of each faction would have the opportunity to express all these emotions from the rostrum and to give an assessment, whether in defense or against. This is going to be the right of every faction, so please calm down. We're upset. We can't change the fact that we're going to be emotional. Please, Kirichenko's line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, today the Minister of Defence has made a very significant charge against me from this rostrum. Therefore, first of all, I ask you all to listen to my opinion and to establish an investigative commission on this matter, and specifically on “Ukrvijski Budud”. Because with the permission and with the full submission of the Minister of Defence, there is no State-owned enterprise Ukrovijsko Budd today. Garjechev, Korobkin, who was appointed today as Minister for the post, practically through the front companies where Garjeva's wife and Korbkin's wife and relative of the Minister of Defence took the business into their property. I therefore insist once again that an investigative commission be set up and verified. I've called the Attorney-General's Office on this matter on several occasions. I'm talking again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, calm down. Please make a legislative proposal, and it will be considered. Do you want me to make a fool of myself? The draft order, the session room will be determined. I invite you to speak to Foreign Minister Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, I am accustomed to talking about specific practical matters at this rostrum. That is why I will not violate this tradition and speak the language of fact in contrast with the language of political speculation aimed at the Ukrainian State and the President of Ukraine. In the last two years, Ukraine’s foreign policy has become active and recognized in substance and character. Those aren't my words, those are the words of our external partners. Ukraine’s foreign policy has become pragmatic, offensive, and has acquired valuable democratic orientations. We refused to bend our backs and put the interests of the state and its citizen at the heart of our actions. In the last two years, the world has learned more about Ukraine than it has in the previous ten years. One year after the victory of democracy, foreign investment in Ukraine more than doubled. The first task given to diplomats by President Viktor Yushchenko was practical, stressing the practical promotion of the course of European integration. What do we have today? Today, the European Union, the strongest and richest neighbouring market in Ukraine, is our largest external trading partner. In 2005, it was $24.1 billion, 12 percent more than in 2004. And the total share of the European Union in the Ukrainian external trade last year was almost 30%. Now it's 35%. What do we do? The European Union recognized Ukraine as a market economy country. This is a direct signal for investors and entrepreneurs. Together with Brussels, we agreed to start working on a new founding agreement, which, under the President's insistence, should be consistent with the principles of association, i.e. interaction not from the outside, but from the inside, and integration. I quote from the European Parliament resolution of 6 April this year. In view of the conclusion of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the EU in 2008, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to start negotiations with Ukraine on the Association Agreement." End of quote. This is a direct response to those who say that we are not expected in the EU. They're waiting for us. More than half of the citizens of the European Union support the idea of Ukraine's membership in the European Union. And that's what our citizens are waiting for. I know what I'm talking about. Since the beginning of this year, he has made 25 trips in the regions of Ukraine and has met with our citizens. I know what I'm talking about. Because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is operational and this year it has implemented a 90 per cent action plan for Ukraine-EU. At our insistence, the European Union has agreed to simplify the visa regime for Ukrainian citizens, primarily for young people, pensioners, businessmen, journalists, athletes, science and culture actors, international carriers. Knowing people’s problems in life, in our negotiations with the European Union, we had a basic talk about these kinds. Layers that are most vulnerable and most in need of real help, particularly from parliament and government. By the way, as a result of the visa waiver for citizens of countries, EU members and other countries initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ukraine visited 6.5 million citizens of these countries last year. That's 2.5 million more than in 2004. This year, tourist flows are projected to increase further within two million as compared to 2005. And so Ukraine becomes attractive. And on a practical scale, we're going to get more than $300 million. Most importantly, since 2005, no European capital has questioned that Ukraine, as a European state, has every reason to rely on Article 49 of the Amsterdam Treaty on the EU as a clear prospect of future membership in this organisation. Now it's about the SATs. Ukrainian diplomats, along with other authorities, have made every effort to ensure diplomatic support for our accession to the World Trade Organization, a matter that is now in the hands of the Supreme Council. Since my appointment as minister in February 2005, Ukraine has established 16 bilateral protocols with countries members of the working group. Today's word for you, distinguished national MPs. Now it's about NATO. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs operates according to Ukrainian legislation. The Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in June 2003, clearly states that ensuring Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty is one of the priorities of Ukraine's foreign policy. This is also confirmed by the Supreme Council's decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on relations and cooperation between Ukraine and NATO. So as a lawyer and a diplomat, we have no doubt about the legitimacy of the NATO membership course. We have a problem with another. This is what Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine is talking about, which on September 14th at NATO headquarters expressed concern about the low level of information provided by Ukrainians about this organization. I fully support Viktor Fedorovich's decision to focus the government's efforts on a national information campaign on the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty. At the same time, I believe that the State should not finance a campaign for or against NATO. I see the task of the government apparatus in proving objective information about this international organization. This year alone, more than 120 tours of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were held to all district centers of the state, 34 district centers, and cities of district subordination. Thus, diplomats know that, indeed, the needs of people in foreign politics correspond to what is capital mythology. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to be as careful as possible right now, this is Russia. Our relationship will always be evaluated in ambiguous ways, only facts are clear. Our first fact is an equal and dynamic dialogue between Kiev and Moscow. This is evident from the visit of the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation to Kiev last week by my former colleague Sergio Lavrov. Over the past six months, we have met three times thoroughly and discussed the state of our relationship. I agree with the Russian partners, we are proud of our relations with our countries. A Ukrainian-Russian interstate commission has been set up, headed by the heads of two states. Within the Commission, the Committee on Economic Cooperation, led by heads of government, as well as subcommittees on security, international cooperation, humanitarian cooperation. A subcommittee on the functioning of the Black Sea fleet and its presence in Ukraine was created. By the way, we didn't have or are not going to lead any discussions about breaking the Navy-based agreement. It can only be about proper implementation of the provisions of the treaties and legislation of Ukraine. We're talking about levels that are open and fair. Let's move away from emotion, we have to live and work under the highest international standards. Such a basic standard is the ancient Roman principle: “Contracts must be implemented”. Thus, all ratified by the Supreme Council of the Agreement with Russia, including the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol, are to be carried out both by Ukraine and Russia. With the Russian side, we agreed on a plan of action for the coming years, signed the Interregional and Border Cooperation Programme by 2010, started work on bringing the activities of the Black Sea fleet of Russia into Ukraine in accordance with our country's agreements and legislation. By the end of this year, we are preparing for the first meeting of the Interstate Commission in Ukraine, headed by the presidents of two states. And in this context, I want to hear the numbers. This is our next fact. The total trade between Ukraine and Russia in 2005 amounted to 20 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The figure is 12.9 percent higher than in 2004. During the nine months of the current year, it was already 16 billion. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} That's $6.6 percent higher than last year's. These are objective achievements involving both diplomats and diplomats. Speaking of Russia, we're talking about human relationships. I don't care about Russia, because my mother is Russian. In April of this year, we made an agreement on a simplified order of crossing the border with the inhabitants of the border areas. Today, at the President's direction, we are actively working on agreements on a simplified order of citizenship change, an expansion of the network of checkpoints. Finally, in the interests of the entire state, we have come to the conclusion of the treaty-making of the state border, because this is our protection, because this is the only effective way to fight smuggling that puts a law-abiding Ukrainian producer on its knees and brings tax revenue into the shadows. Finally, we began to protect Ukrainian interests. The way Russians, Americans, and other nations do it. Because no one will respect us if we do not honor ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a brief statement about our relationship with the United States. And again, in the language of results. During my tenure as U.S. minister, Ukraine was granted market economy status, and a protocol was signed in the context of the WTO entry. Washington canceled on Ukraine's famous Jackson-Venika amendment, which hindered our economic relationship. As a result, the U.S. today is one of the largest foreign investors in Ukraine -- $1.3 billion and our nation's international technical assistance donors -- for almost $3 billion. In addition, the US has made an additional contribution of $45 million to the Chernobyl Fund for the construction of the Hidden. Thus, the total United States contribution amounted to $203 million. What do these data show? About trust in Ukraine. How can it be strengthened? Only an active policy implemented by the President of the State. Not for the first time, we've come to the level of our nation's active regional presence. It was Ukraine that was fruitful and specifically involved in the efforts that contributed to normalization of the dialogue between Poland and Belarus. In doing so, they did not lose their trade with Poland or Belarus. By the way, this year we've already had over half a billion dollars in trade with Belarus. We have intensified the activities of the GUAM union and turned it into an international organization for democracy and economic development. GUAM is important to Ukraine. I stress, Ukraine, not the political forces, as an active free trade zone, as an area of our political influence, as a space of unique transport capabilities. Regarding GUAM, we developed a policy of pragmatic action. The same as for the coexistence of independent states. My clear position is the SND is to become a 12-State free trade zone, taking into account the WTO requirements, otherwise it will continue to be a discussion club. I can't believe anyone would deny that. By the way, that is the kind of thesis that Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, supports. We need to be strong and proactive. That's my credo. Only a strong state in the region is observed in the world, but this will not give us self - satisfaction but will result in concrete and practical results for the interests of the country. We have been elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council. In 2005, the United Nations program in Ukraine received $11 million. This year, it is expected that more than $17 million will arrive in Ukraine as part of official development assistance to the United Nations, which is the largest indicator in years. Last year alone, $34.6 million has been compensated by the United Nations Secretariat for participating in United Nations peace-keeping operations. And this row can be continued. Dear National Deputies! I'm not deliberately talking about the world-viewed topics of Ukrainian foreign policy. In this room, as always, there are many former and future diplomats who know this issue properly. I'm talking about people. About you. Two years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was a reform that turned this structure into a European department. The diplomats sensed the need of the state and society in their activities. And that inspires them to do a creative, self-loyal job. It is thanks to diplomatic professionals, often underfunded by the State, that we are active and confident. These professionals ignore political passions; they want to meet the requirements of patriotism, professionalism, and orderliness. And I, as a staff diplomat, am proud of them for more than 31 years of diplomatic service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u79	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Before you sign up, let's consult. We won't be done with you until 12 o'clock. So let's finish it, we've got 20 minutes to ask and about 25 minutes to make the speech, and then we'll call it off later. Is there any objection? Okay, thanks. Then please sign up for the questions. Yeah, 20 minutes. Boris Ivanovich, I also ask you to consider that the answer is one minute too, the microphone will turn off to you. One minute to answer. Kuibida Basil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u80	Thank you. As we know, part three of the “Basic Directions of Ukraine’s Foreign Policy”, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1993, paragraph nine of the second “Ukrainian Military Doctrine”, approved by the Presidential Decree in June 2004, article eight of the Ukrainian National Security Act, adopted in 2003, defines the task of ensuring membership in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. What, Mr. Minister, has been done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under your leadership to achieve the goal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And the second question is, what are the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding objects of knowledge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that have not been carried out by your Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u81	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. As for the direction of the Ministry's activities regarding the European Union and NATO, I tried to provide information on this in my report. At the same time, I want to say that there have been qualitative disruptions in our relations with both the European Union and NATO. As far as NATO is concerned, last May we switched to a new format of relationship between Ukraine and NATO, which is called an intensive dialogue on membership. And by the way, I would like to say that, while in Brussels at a meeting, a joint meeting with the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine confirmed the commitment of the government to this format and the work in this format. We are actively working on the implementation of targeted action plans that are made up of each year in our relationship with NATO and are satisfied with the results. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u82	Yes. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u83	The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, I will not recall the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would not have implemented. And today, at a government meeting, the Prime Minister said one more time that he had no claim to the professional activity of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u84	Yes, please, Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u85	Please give the floor to Deputy Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u86	Filindash microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u87	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich, I have two questions. First. You said that in the last two years, even more was done to strengthen authority than in the previous ten years. But as we all remember, over the past 10 years, you have also worked as a minister and at Kuchma for more than one year, something that is unclear whether something has not been done properly, whether now or in the future you will say so. Now, here's one more question. In the light of the fact that MDI, MZS, and Ukraine generally receive national grants for Euro-Atlantic integration. Please tell me, first of all, what is the extent of such interference by foreign states with the policies of the public authorities? And secondly, what you have done personally to reduce the conflict of interest that may arise in relation to your coworkers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u88	Thank you. As far as the authority of Ukraine is concerned, as I have said, with more than 30 years of experience, I am absolutely responsible for the fact that the authority of our state has increased markedly in the international arena. If I talk about previous periods, as a person who worked and in the days of Kuchma, I can compare, I can tell you that one thing is to declare a course for membership in the European Union and NATO, the other thing is to act within the state against these values and those goals. With regard to Nazi grants, I am responsible for stating that no foreign ministry official is using any Nazi grants directly, and the Foreign Ministry does not receive these grants to carry out activities that are incompatible with the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All of this is happening in accordance with the bilateral agreements between NATO and Ukraine, and there are no secrets here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u89	Please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u90	Thank you. Please tell me that 25 times earlier this year, you mean during the election campaign, I understand that you were in the regions of Ukraine, and that's why you know what you're talking about. Do you have the right, Boris Ivanovich, to make such general conclusions after the meetings, I think that in most cases you are the leader of the National Movement of Ukraine? And the next. In view of your being the leader of this party, the political party that claimed to move to the opposition, particularly the Anti-Crist Coalition, and then to the government that created it, how can you work in this government? In your opinion, what can a minister do to lead such a political party?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u91	Thank you. I want to confirm. Yes, I have already made 25 regional trips since the beginning of the year, as have my deputies. The last trip was 10 days ago. During my stay in Poltava, I held two public hearings, I spoke to the students, I met with representatives of the government, so I was doing a particular thing that a member of the government was supposed to do. As for my political activity as head of the Ukrainian People's Movement. I apologize, honourable national MPs, honourable Adam Ivanovich, and I have watched the Supreme Council's ruling since November 3rd, which read: “Report on the performance of the Ministry's tasks and the implementation of public policy in the field of external relations.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u92	Please, Stephen Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u93	Son of a bitch. Please pass the word to my colleague on the Sergio Shevchuk block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u94	Please, Shevchuka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u95	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Boris Ivanovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very meaningful presentation. He will be properly appreciated and accepted, perhaps not in the session hall, but among the Ukrainian citizens who are listening today. And in the session room, as we know, there's a part that listens to Russian political scientists and the Kremlin's opinion. In politics, we know that there are no constant friends and enemies, there are constant interests. I am convinced that, at this stage, the national interest of Ukraine is that you have continued to lead our foreign political affairs and we wish you success. And my question is not about the past, but about the future. Please tell us what the Ministry's plans are for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u96	What are the plans for next year?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for your kind words. I refer them to all Ukrainian diplomats. If we're talking about the intensity of our work, I'm going to give you a few numbers. This year alone, I personally received 66 visits, i.e. 37 visits abroad and 29 of my colleagues I accepted in Ukraine. An official visit to the Portuguese Republic is scheduled for tomorrow. A visit that was prepared for several months. I mean, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't just do these visits. We have arranged for 23 international meetings of the President, both to visit him abroad and to receive government officials in Ukraine. Today, as you know, the President of the Republic of Lithuania is visiting Ukraine on hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u98	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u99	We also provided preparations and arranged for the Prime Minister and his meetings, which took place this year. By all these figures, the work of the entire diplomatic service is tremendous. We are also planning active contacts with countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Africa, and the Pacific region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u100	Arnold Radovets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u101	Please pass the word to a colleague on Taran-Terreen block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u102	Taran-Terreen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u103	Victor Teren, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Parenthood Party. Dear reporter! Do you know this information, and does it correspond to the reality that some circles of Russia have asked Yanukovich to pay for his support to Moscow, so that in one packet with the transfer of Russia's gas transport system, with the extension of our stay in the Black Sea Fleet, the synchronization of the entrance to the WTO is the primary requirement for the resignation of Tarasuk and Grizzenka? I repeat, first order of business. I mean, you've already been ordered. They've ordered the parliamentary closets that Moscow feeds -- let's say it is. And that's why the government won't forgive you for your back. And you are in general behind the resignation of this disgraceful government, in which you are both strangers and in general foreign national interests, foreign dignity and foreign Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u104	I don't have specific facts to support what you said, so I can't comment on that. But the only thing I want to say is that I already retired in 2000, and I know very well about this resignation, and they were related to interest abroad, not in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u105	Vadim Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u106	Vadim Petrenko, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to my colleague Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u107	Mikola Tomenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u108	Boris Ivanovich, wanted to hear your position as minister and government. Here a national MP from the Party of Regions in Russia presented a project to move Ukrainians from Western and Central Ukraine to Siberia to raise their cultural level there. Will the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ever respond to this brilliant idea that I read in the press? The second question is how do you feel about the size of our countrymen in Italy, Germany, and Portugal. I know there's a problem with the number of professionals in the consulates. Do you insist and plan to increase the number of such workers, since there is a serious enough problem, there are many professional people, but there is not enough in the consulates. And at the end of the day, maybe political replication. I know you and Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov have believed for several months that the coalition with the Party of Regions will save the national interests of Ukraine. Do you still believe?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u109	The first question is the relocation of Ukrainians. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not comment on the position of parliamentarians. This applies to both the inside and the outside. We comment on official positions expressed by the State or on behalf of the State. About the Ukrainians in general. Because, on occasion, I want to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ensuring that the budget program is implemented in connection with foreign Ukraine. This year, something is being removed from the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and passed on to the Ministry of Culture. I don't think that's the right thing to do. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has created infrastructure. Only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can provide direct contact with Ukrainians abroad, since we have a single network of foreign institutions. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u110	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u111	Assistance to Ukrainians and consular officials I want to say that last year, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we set up a relief centre for Ukrainian citizens abroad. Such centers are established in all embassies of countries where the largest number of Ukrainian citizens are temporarily present in these countries. We are, of course, faced with the cost constraints and restrictions imposed by the decisions of the Supreme Council and the government regarding the number of warehouses. That's why our capabilities are manoeuvring, transferring our personnel from some consular institutions and others, especially when it's linked to the absence of such a function as issuing visas in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u112	Please, Mikola Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u113	Dear Boris Ivanovich, it has just been announced from the speech of your predecessor, the Minister of Defense, that 200 million bracelets of funding for the AN-70 project have been removed in connection with the refusal of the Russian side to participate in this project. The Russian side is understandable. It removes the competitor by pushing forward its project. We're financially capitulating, and as a result, we're losing one of the best projects. To what extent do you, as foreign minister, bear responsibility for this shameful failure? That's the first question. Next question. As we know, next year's budget is up 11% on average. Some ministries have seen a 47% increase in spending even on office of ministers' household services. As far as I know, your ministry was cut by 5%. What does this have to do with anything? Is this a political line, or is this a personal attitude toward you as a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u114	Thank you. As for the AN-70 plane, I want to say that not one foreign minister made a hole in his colleagues' ears, talking about the AN-70 plane. This was, by the way, one of the things I did last week with my colleague, the Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov. As we know, we witnessed several statements by both the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister regarding Russia’s refusal to participate in the project. We ask the question of what, according to the concluded agreement, the Russian side has to inform the Russian party in writing of its refusal. That was my request to Sergio Lavrov. But it seems that the Russian side is not interested in further cooperation in this project. As for the cuts in funding, I'll tell you that it hurts me, it hurts like a foreign minister for us having two programs taken from the Ministry, two of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u116	I'm asking you to help me. This is a program for cooperation with foreign Ukraine and a program to support Ukraine's positive image abroad. I ask you to resume these budget programmes at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then we will save the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u117	Sergey Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u118	Dear Boris Ivanovich, certainly a very experienced and qualified diplomat, is my opinion, I think most of it supports. However, I would like to make such a trailer. I think as a diplomat, you know the value of every word of a diplomat, I don't think you'd ever say, so-called United States. Why do you use that term when you're talking to a faction coalition in the Supreme Council today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u119	I want to say that I couldn't allow a statement called the United States of America, if it did, maybe I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u120	Boris Ivanovich, the question was the other way around, what he's saying, you can't call the so-called United States why you call the so-called coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u121	I didn't, I pointed out from the beginning that I'm reporting here as Foreign Minister on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in carrying out the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Public Policy in the field of external relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u122	Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u123	I would like to give the floor to Deputy Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u124	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u125	Dear Boris Ivanovich, you agree with the statement that in any free democratic State one of the main criteria for the effectiveness of foreign policy is the amount of economic dividends that the State receives from the implementation of its foreign policy course. If a State gains profits, then politics is effective, if not, as we do, it is a loss, then the price of such policies. An example is the United States of America, where all foreign policy is subject solely to obtaining maximum economic dividends for its country, and that is correct. So do you agree with that statement or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u126	I fully agree with your position, and I want to say that in my report, I was actually trying to prove the facts, the facts and the figures that our foreign policy is looking for a concrete outcome. And this particular result is expressed in numbers. I said that in just one year, direct foreign investment came to Ukraine more than twice as much as it had in the previous 14 years. This is the result of both our democratic internal transformations and the result of active foreign policy. Of course, we're trying to put the question of economic efficiency as the cornerstone of the definition of the effectiveness of external political activity. This is one of the key factors in determining the effectiveness of foreign institutions. And if the level of traffic with a country, let's say it's consistently low, we're asking questions about the collapse of our diplomatic presence or about
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u127	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u129	Talk to me, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u130	Thank you. So what I wanted to say is that if the level of economic return of an activity with a foreign institution is consistently low, we're asking questions about whether it's closing down or how it's closing down. This is the main criterion and measure of the effectiveness of any foreign institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u131	Yes, thank you, Boris Ivanovich, sit down, please. Yes, dear colleagues, we now have a report from two committees that have considered this issue. According to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Security and Defence Committee and international relations have considered the issues of the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of Foreign Affairs at a joint meeting. We clearly define that the issue of defence of international relations is the basis of national security of the State, so we cannot, at the expense of joint efforts, allow national security to become the subject of ongoing political competition or the redistribution of powers in the course of imperfect constitutional reform. Of course, the committees have determined and decided unanimously that consideration of these issues should take place clearly in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council and the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, at the same time, it should be at a high professional systemic level of government. The situation of internal and external processes is characterized by increased risks. Problems such as international terrorism, illegal migration, drug trafficking, arms smuggling, and technological developments are becoming transnational. In these circumstances, Ukraine, as an independent State, should improve the protection of national economic and political interests, should pay particular attention to creating conditions for the development of obligations to protect territorial integrity, integrity, national security, all components, beginning with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, special law enforcement agencies and the law enforcement system as a whole. Ukraine’s armed forces, and this conclusion was confirmed in the course of the report and discussion, are in a very difficult state. If we don't take action at the state level, the Ukrainian Armed Forces risk losing virtually all types of basic weapons in the next few years. And Ukraine will face the problem of the need for total rearms, which will be impossible to perform in a compressed term. We define that the Ukrainian Armed Forces security system is unbalanced, cumbersome and costly. The economic potential of the state is not adjusted to the accepted programs. Unaddressed problems with the security of military personnel with housing due to the lack of adequate funding create moral, psychological tension in the military groups, leads to the flow of promising officers, makes it impossible to implement fully in the process of moving to the professional Ukrainian Armed Forces. In fact, the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces takes place on a residual basis at a maximum of 50 per cent of the minimum needs, the Ukrainian Defence Act is not being implemented in a chronic manner, and the National Development Programme of the Armed Forces is being undermined, including the State Programme for the Production of Armed Forces. In fact, budget allocations allow at best to maintain a special warehouse, that is, to ensure the physical existence of the Armed Forces. All of this undermines the foundation and system of government programs, actions. Let me give you some examples. In fact, in absolute terms, the cost of implementing measures to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to update and support military technology and weapons, to train military personnel, and to teach military science are meagre. This situation has been particularly acute since the start of the 2007 review of the draft budget, where the main problems that have been mentioned above are practically ignored. As a result, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have recently developed a human problem. More than 870 discharge reports have been submitted by the younger officers, including 500 platoon commanders, mouths, and batteries. At the same time, this category of officers in the Ukrainian Armed Forces accounts for only 52 percent. After the first year, more than 15 percent of young lieutenants are released from military service after completing their education. For example, out of the 3,000 graduates in 2005, 442 lieutenants had already been released. On the basis of the foregoing, I ask, honourable national deputies, to unite that level of principle in our discussions with our responsibility and to ensure the maximum implementation of the 2007 budget resolution on defence issues, the decision of the National Security and Defence Council and the relevant proposals of the professional committees. Respectful colleagues surely associate these with the effectiveness of Ukraine’s actions as a State to protect and promote foreign national, economic, and political interests. We determine that these directions clearly need to be improved, for this depends on Ukraine’s place in the world’s fellow worker. Regardless of direction – west or east – it is necessary to effectively protect economic and political interests. It is very important that this is done on equal terms without double standards, without political or economic pressures. It is necessary to destroy stereotypes and to make it clear that deepening Ukraine's cooperation towards the West does not conflict with deepening strategic cooperation towards the East, including the Russian Federation. The key is the conditions under which national, economic and political interests must be taken into account. We believe that external problems should not be allowed to go into outer space and to seek arbitrators for their resolution by the respective foreign states, regardless of their names and capitals. We are confident that today more than ever it is necessary to consolidate the political will, the mind, the resources for the effective development of Ukraine as a modern legal, democratic state. On the basis of the above, the Committee on National Security and Defence proposes to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the reports, that the Committee on National Security and Defence prepare an appropriate draft of the Supreme Council's decree to take all the proposals into account and bring them to the attention of the session for further strengthening, improving all the components of our nation's national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u133	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. No questions I'm saying there are no questions under the Rules. I know what you have. You'll ask next door. Yes, please, factions, please sign up for anyone who wants to. Yes, the recording took place. Dear colleagues, I was approached by some factions. I think we're going to agree to that, because some people are proposing to split up the statement: one representative is going to say 2.5 minutes on one report, the other on the other, on the other report. This is the right of factions. She's got five minutes. Either it's one by two, or it's divisible. Do you understand? Yes, Zablock from the Party of Regions will. Okay, please, Taras Cranwell. You're two ministers, aren't you? Yes, please, five minutes. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we absolutely reject any accusation of such a matter as political deliberation on ministers, we do not release anyone for conviction, we do not repress or criticize anyone. Our argument about both ministers stems solely from the facts of their work. And we can talk about what political executions we have when we have the information from the Head of State and the State Property Fund, which, according to the General Prosecutor's Office, have been made available for consultation and signed by the heads of the Departments of the Ministry of Defence, for example, when these checks have been conducted to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine since 24.07.2006, Yuri Yehanurov, at the direction of the President of Ukraine since 13.07.2006. Are you accusing the President of Ukraine and the previous Prime Minister? I'm sorry. Think about what you're saying. How should we react to the phrases in these conclusions: “The breach of legislation by the Ministry of Defence management and the low level of control by the military financial services contributed to the numerous violations of financial and budgetary legislation, which were found to amount to two billion 935 million dollars.” Of course, this needs to be checked, of course, this work will continue, but these are documents that have been produced and verified. Another case is where a violation of the alienation of state-owned enterprises and accounting institutions has been identified, free of charge, of the military immobilized property of the Armed Forces. It was determined that it was for the implementation of the 12 decisions of the Ukrainian Defence Minister Mr. Griesenk in 2005 -- the first half of 2006 that the status of this property was changed, and with the implementation of the state budget, the revenue of 72 million dollars was lost. I'm not going to comment on these statements, we've got these documents. The President's initiative, and he pushed these investigations. We don't want to draw our conclusions on these statements, but they do. With regard to the minister of foreign affairs, the problem is that he has forgotten the rule of the Constitution, according to which not a single minister, the government is implementing foreign policy. In opposition to the government, Mr. Tarasyuk led to a series of provocative actions that hindered, hindered negotiations on vital things for Ukraine, particularly energy supplies, and led us to problems even on the issues he was working on. When, for example, the subordination of the Black Sea fleet’s assets, until Mr. Tarasyuk was able to intervene, was resolved in one day, other problems still resolve: The same lighthouses that were transferred are actually provocative nuances. As far as one more point is concerned. The Minister violated the Ukrainian National Security Act, which clearly states that cooperation and integration with the EU and NATO should be carried out while maintaining friendly relations with Russia and the SND countries. He felt that he could be friends with one strategic partner, a cost of breaking up, and a bad relationship with other strategic partners. This is contrary to the principles of both European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Ukraine has lost its influence in recent times, but don’t cry out. Don't shout. She lost her influence on the post-Radians space. Is it in the interests of the Ukrainian state that we lost there, in fact, our political presence. In Transnistria, the position was inconsistent and led to Ukraine’s secondaryity. As a result, in fact, only a deadlocked negotiation process there led to Ukrainian citizens and ethnic Ukrainians becoming hostages there. Failure to set up a diplomatic presence, a constant large-scale frame-up, a constant absence in a number of Ukrainian ambassadors' countries, and especially painfully what it is, is also true of a number of countries that are our strategic partners. This was viewed as an unfriendly step. In addition, a great deal of damage has been done to the President himself: the failure to prepare a German visit to Yushchenk, the complete collapse of the Yushchenko-Putin commission, and so on. It is not possible to list everything. As a result, the coalition decided on the results of the report, taking into account the irresponsible attitude of the two ministers to carry out their functions, taking into account the violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the current Ukrainian legislation in carrying out their tasks as ministers, considering that further residence might be detrimental to national interests, to find the work of the Ukrainian Defence Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs unsatisfied. Then, perhaps, we can move on to the appropriate organizational conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u135	Thank you. The Socialist faction is Eugene Filindash, please. They're two, then they're Volga, so two minutes 50 seconds and Volga. Please. 2.30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! And on the eve of today's debate, and in the course of its consideration, there were thoughts about what he said was a political issue that was too politicized. We all realize that, in fact, in part, it has a certain political tone. But let's look at essentially what's the reason why this question, including it's politicized? On the one hand, we have a rather serious conflict inside the government, because it is clear that the issue is not in some minor misunderstandings, but in systemic approaches. But in the end, this is a matter for the government itself, not for the parliament to consider these contradictions. But I care, like, I think, about all of us, a few other things. I would like to highlight the substance of these contradictions. I am concerned about why foreign ministers and defense ministers try to conduct a course that is not usually supported by the majority of our citizens. If this applies to certain intergovernmental contradictions – one thing, but when all sociological surveys show that our citizens are clearly negative about joining NATO, why are these ministers consistently taking this course against the will of the citizens? I'm a long way from thinking that they don't understand. When you think about high standards, about high democratic standards and other standards that we're going to achieve by entering these countries. We forget that this is a military block. About a military bloc in which, in particular, Turkey has been a country for several decades, for which law - enforcement organizations have repeatedly reported the state of things in the country, which is far from the high standards that we are being tried to bring to: both torture in prisons and non - recognition of national minorities and repression, and the military conflicts in which these countries participated, and so on. Give examples, please, of Austria, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, of neutral countries. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Eugene. Thank you. Basil Volga, please, second part of the speech. Get ready for Kowalja.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The question with Taraszuk is clear. Personally, it's an ideological conflict. Mr. Tarasyuk hates everything Slovenian and Orthodox. His quest, the main task, is to break up the Orthodox Slovenian world. Let's leave it. But this conflict is noble, it's normal. I have certain beliefs, he has others, and I will fight him to the end. But it's a matter of another nature in the Ministry of Defense. You know, I understand from this report that we have to respect our Ministry of Defense for shooting planes every 15 years and raising four soldiers and five flags. That's what it looks like. But in the end, I mean, out of combat training, absolutely nothing was heard. But for the entire speech minister of the defense, who touches here, I'm clean, white and fluffy, I've done everything to me, I want to ask you a question, Anatoly Stepanovich, to you personally. Lugansk Street, Cotsubinski Street, 5, center. There was, there was, a room of a miscvoyant. It was sold by a mesquiocomat, excuse me, to an envelope of 1 000 square feet [1,765 sq m]. Sold for 2 million 200 thousand dollars with a three - year payment period. I mean, free. It's a gift. I have a question. An act of independent evaluation is applied here. This is estimated to cost nearly 8 million dollars. And it's not a competition, it's just that. If it were a competition, it would cost 15 million dollars. Anatoly Stepanovich, that's true. And all that's been said before is a speech room. And that's why, I think, on a large scale, you know, the assessment should be clear to the parliament of these two ministers. That Tarasyuk, who is fighting against his own country, who is fighting most of the people of this country, we have to give the President a recommendation to make the right conclusions. And as for the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Secretary of Defense, I apologize. Another good one. As for the Minister of Defense, I apologize, in this situation we also have a hard time, and as Secretary of the Committee on Anti-Criminality and Corruption, I give my word to you, Anatoly Stepanovich, that I will control, and in what way does the Prosecutor's Office evaluate those acts of the CIA that were signed by your own deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u139	Yes, please, Viacheslav Koval, “Our Ukraine” faction, they also have in half. The crowds are getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u140	National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, first of all, allow me, on my behalf, on behalf of the faction “Our Ukraine”, I hope from the Ukrainian Parliament, to express my sincere thanks to the ministers, my gratitude for their professional and detailed report on the activities of foreign political and defence authorities, because there is a lack of, forgive me, the mind of previous speakers to mention that for the first time in history, perhaps the Ukrainian Parliament, we are listening to a detailed professional report on the activities of the two departments that determine the life of our nation. Although, honourable colleagues, such a report of listening in such an atmosphere, I don't think they're giving, adding image to Ukraine as nations in the world. I am convinced that she is not strengthened in any way. It can be noted with confidence that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister was soon able to make a real breakthrough in relations with the European Union, the United States of America, NATO, relations with the Russian Federation, and the relationship between the vasal and the gentleman in the relationship of equal partners. Of course, all the achievements that have been made in foreign policy are not an argument for anti-crisisists, since this is about a scenario that is far from being produced in Ukraine, but most likely in a neighbouring state. For today’s majority in Parliament, Ukraine’s national interests do not play any role, and today it is simply a political dispute over the head of foreign political affairs that advocates Ukraine’s national interests. To our conviction, the initiative to report these ministers is an attack on the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine, because the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence is the constitutional quota of the President of Ukraine. There is a very valid question as to why today we do not listen to the reports of the Minister of Fuel and Energy in connection with the rise in gas prices, as well as the rise in gas prices, I remind you, Your Honor, in January of this year it was a matter for the government of Yehanurov to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u141	Thank you. Stepan Davemuk. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u142	Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! And I want to remind you that this thick folicant is the result of the work of the Supreme Council of 4 exclamation points that formed the legal foundations of military construction. This is the fundamental basis for the development of our Armed Forces and is a necessary but insufficient condition and a sufficient condition is the creation of an appropriate effective team that can use the entire base to benefit the Armed Forces. I am convinced that such a command by Minister Grizzenk was created, as evidenced by such limited resources, by the results of the increase in the security of our state and the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the project, the government's budget project, has hit our Armed Forces very deeply. I'll remind you that for the first time under the walls of the Supreme Council, retired soldiers came. This is a very disturbing fact. The Antichrist Coalition is very often happy with its expertise. Professional expertise prevents the introduction into the budget of a special fund, which is a bride, from being deceived. The introduction of pensions into the military’s budget, which conceals a reduction in the financing of the Armed Forces. Isn't that a lie? Why does the anti-crisis coalition bring our armed forces into a deep crisis? That's a serious question. I understand most of it, its position on NATO, its negative attitude. Then I have a question: why don't you make every effort to give our armed forces not two percent of GDP, but three percent, four percent, to create an army like the French Armed Forces? Why You Are Not Sleeping
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Let me finish. Yes, please, Simonenko, the Communist faction. Behind him, Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I believe that the report of the two Ministers, Foreign Affairs and Defence has shown once more that these are interrelated issues. Having heard this report, I have once again learned that we have in Ukraine a deliberate policy of destroying the independence of our political country and protecting the country. The Main Institute of State is being destroyed. Why? A complete failure in foreign policy. By the way, I would like to recall once again who may have forgotten that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been expelled from work once for the complete failure of foreign policy and it is Tarasyuk who has been expelled from work. Next. You and I are witnessing that national interests are being handed over, and I can comment on that. There is protection of American interests in Ukraine. And the European Union, the complete programme has failed, the European Union has refused to consider all Ukraine's applications in the near future and has long said so. Foreign policy, trade, negative balance, 1.8 billion – 2005, 2006 – 2.8 billion p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} There is a deliberate policy of destroying the domestic producer and opening the doors for imports, which are imported from the States that serve. Next. The failure of foreign policy is determined by the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes a statement either by his mouth or at his suggestion by the President, which is being convened by Ukraine in Cuba and Belarus to bring about a democratic order. Do you remember those statements? GUAM, Balto Black Sea Cooperation of Independent Democracy, NATO, Involvement. There is a strong relationship with Russia. On current requirements, I would like to reiterate once again that Ukraine has lost even enough defence capability and in Ukraine, we have a third, fourth-generation arms type, NATO-fifth, sixth-generation. I mean, today we're trying to protect our country's defence capabilities. But I want to tell the previous speakers, especially the nationalists. We're a sea country, and we don't have naval forces. Let's think for a second. There are no naval forces in Ukraine! For God's sake, you don't have enough paint on "Sagidacna" anymore. You can't let a submarine into the sea alone. Therefore, when we talk about the future of our country's defence of the naval forces, the air defence system and the missile complex are unable to carry out the military task of protecting the State. There is no new system of arms. Next. The system of the College of Staff Training has been destroyed. The Odessa Academy of Land Forces is practically destroyed. Social protection issues for 49,000 homeless officers in Ukraine. The Academy of Armed Forces is being transferred to a one-year training cycle and Ukrainian officers are being trained in NATO different universities. It stops, even soldiers turn officers into carnivorous meat. NATO, Theodosia, are all the elements we need to talk about today. Corruption and abuse flourish in the army. The military-industrial complex is being destroyed. I would like to recall one of the speakers from this rostrum, and I am now formally addressing, listen, distinguished colleagues, radio audiences. I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to formally understand what's going on with the Titan-Magnium combination of Zaporozhye and how some of the speakers here have managed to get $200 million out of this combination in two years. And this is a strategic facility! That's what I'm telling the nationalists. I think you should just shut up for God's sake. And if you have a Titan-magnetic combination, it's a reason to buy millions of yachts. And to forget that this is a State's strategy of independence, it's an airplane and a missile complex. That is why I would like to tell some speakers, too, to think about it. And I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to check where 200 million dollars went missing when they sold $20,000 of sponges instead of $20,000 to their entities, 6,000 of them sold, and 14,000 of them put their pockets on every ton. Next. I do not share the trade approach that our Minister of Defence has today. "Ours," I call it. In Zaporozhye, the largest supermarket is built on the territory of the military, and the entire territory is occupied by the military, and the supermarket is built on the territory of the military. I think there's a price in the Ministry of Defense to pay for someone's breast to close an ambrazur. The trade approach is destroying everything today. Therefore, I believe that we have a face-to-face shift of national interests, a betrayal of the interests of the people of Ukraine. I don't think it's a good job. But we must understand today, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the President. We must vote in favour of an unsatisfactory assessment, both by the Minister of Defence and by the High Commander, who is not working today to protect our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Turkov has the floor, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! You know, I've listened to the ministers' speeches, I've listened to the questions and answers they've been giving and, you know, I've concluded one: today's two hours and more of our communication is undisturbed at all, except for the attempts of political deliberation on the people that the President has delegated to the government. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! In our eyes there is a daily attack on the President's authority and other motivation today in our meeting, in our communication, I'm sorry, and your criticism of your own government simply does not exist. As far as the specifics are concerned. You know, it's a very difficult situation for Boris Tarasyuk. Why? Because it was the leaders of the anti-crisis coalition who signed the Universal, where it was clearly prescribed: Euro-integration, Euro-ancient integration, I translate, is an introduction to NATO. Who signed these papers? I emphasize, the leaders of the Anti-Crist Coalition. And today, the same Yanukovic, Mr. Simonenko, the leader of the Socialists of the Frost, say that something was not understood with foreign policy. Our block didn't sign because we realized it was blasphemy, that it was an attempt to take power in any way. And today, of course, today, it's hard to work as a foreign minister who's trying to do the Universal, you're signed, and at the same time every time we see how the government's leadership that you've formed is actually denigrating all of these positions. And, of course, it is difficult for Mr. Tarasyuk to find out that he, on the one hand, performs and protects national interests and pursues the President’s policy, which, by the way, is responsible for our external relations under the Constitution. On the other hand, he's really the minister of your government, who daily actually compromises the country with his uncertainty, with his incoherence and, I'm sorry, with just his lie. Next question. As far as the Secretary of Defense is concerned. You know, I've been listening to speeches by both Mr. Simonek and others who've been saying we don't have any new weapons. Indeed, in recent years only modern weapons have been transferred to the army – 17 tanks “Bulat”. This was done by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko and all. Look at the budget you approved, dear colleagues, in the first reading! Look at your budget. [[B in m in s a l in]] And answer that question: How do you work for the defense minister, who of the six billion you wrote down, underfunding more than 40 percent, is five billion just to feed a soldier, that is, to support an army? All of it! What new technologies you're talking about when you're actually crossing the future of the Ukrainian Army with your budget! You're destroying the army, not the Secretary of Defense who has to work with this budget! You demean military pensioners by reducing their pensions, effectively eliminating their financial security scheme. Next question. During the hundreds of days we were reported here on the enormous achievements -- the fierce friendship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. AN-70, it's already been said today, it was a very important strategic Ukrainian-Russian project, one of the few Ukrainian-Russian projects that Ukraine's intellectuals, money, budget money were investing in. And today, thanks to your co-social, yes, relations, this project has been overturned, the virtual prospect of our growing, let's say, the impact on the arms market, the world market. Next question, dear colleagues. You're talking about the abuse going on there when you sell weapons and so on. I have a question. Who forces the army today not only to beg but to trade. Today, you're budgeting 1.9 billion special funds. Who doesn't know what a SWAT team is, respectable colleagues. The Specfonde means that the army must sell its weapons, its property, which is no longer left to survive. No time has been spent in the budget of the current years. Not once! And you're forcing the army to trade? Selling yourself? You start criticizing that there's something they don't trade. It's a shame at all. And, dear colleagues, you know, I've heard your suggestion about the unsatisfying work of the Secretary of Defense, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I want to ask you, who's working for you? Maybe the minister of finance, whose politics is now driven by inflation? How about those in charge of tariff hikes? Who is responsible for the price hike? Those, do you have good internal policies when people are killed every day? And so it happens that most of them are members of our party! Therefore, honourable colleagues, the conclusion can be one – a dissatisfied government policy and the resignation of this government. This is the only benefit we can give the country today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the factions have spoken. I'm giving reporters three minutes with a lockup. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to remind you of what I said from the beginning. You're being heard by the military. And so when the statesman comes out and says we don't have a fleet, how should the soldiers, the sailors, who first pulled out 22 ships this year?Oh, my God! You're insulting them. You don't have to do this. Now it's about questions. If the work of the Armed Forces in excess of 200 is underestimated, it is unfair. If a minister is personally involved in the abuse of a material character, it is even more unfair. I'll explain, and I'll explain with the papers. The question was, Mr. Volga, it seems about Lugansk, which is 2.2 million -- sold cheap. Here's my document. The National Property Fund of Ukraine (who heads it, which faction, you know, yes?), Mr. Pupkov's deputy head of the Foundation writes: “The cost of the valuation object at the valuation date is 2.1 million”. Sold for 2.2. Is there a question for Gryzenek? I don't appreciate it. The other one. These are the billions who wrote to the Ministry of Defense. I emphasize you're becoming a problem, you're breaking the law. There's no audit, the law's broken. And the documents, the analysis notes, you quote. The approval of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on August 31, 2006, which shows that I have made all the legal decisions. You don't respect the Supreme Court? My parents aren't there. Next. For me, it will be shown how the factions of the Socialists and the “Regions” vote. I'll explain why. Mr. Rudzkowski, a former socialist, was in your faction, and he is now in the lead of the HMO. I have contract number 31, signature: Lieutenant General Rudzkowski. Come now, house by plane, address: Forest of Ukraine, 23. Less than six percent gave up that huge -- I studied there, in this Suvorovsky school, Rudzkowski, not Gritsenko. I want to see. Next. I'm being accused of, in this note, not acting, because in this act, I would deny that the minister exceeds his authority over state-owned enterprises. This explains the Ministry of Justice, which is sent to the Attorney General. Everything is done by law, not my explanation, but by the Ministry of Justice. And the main thing. You refer to the results of the HeadCRO test. I want to tell you that the acts of checking individual businesses are what we want to cry. Here's a fact of verification. Please let me finish, because it's very important. The main audit office checked the state-owned “South”, the seventh km, Odessa. I say that's where billions of dollars went. I want to cry, there's no point! And when you go there, you will be shown: this container of this general, this container, this deputy prosecutor, and this container of this governor. There's no gnawing of containers there. As soon as the company was shut down, he signed, and immediately the D.A.’s office went off, and immediately Grizzenko became guilty because they had taken an interest. On each container, $4,000 is taken off, $800 is fixed, and disabled people are still being molded so that they don't even pay for it. I raised this question in the presence of the President, Mr. Moroz, then Prime Minister, here will be confirmed by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, at the RNBO meeting. And I have the answers, and I'll show you, by the signature of the procurator's deputies: Shokin, Winokurov, and then Medvedzko. “There is no reason for the prosecution’s reaction.” How so? There billions wash away, this enterprise was created in 98th year, not by me. Go see whose containers are there. That's HeadCRU, that's the price of this paper. No comments were received from this company, which the market manager valued as a billion dollars. And the last. So no matter what decision you make, I would like to add one point that the head of the parliamentary committee spoke of. Your honor, you've adopted a budget resolution here. It provides two important things, and this budget resolution was presented from this rostrum by today's finance minister, who is the first Vice-Prime Minister. When he sounded two things here: first, to secure funding for the National Development Programme of the Armed Forces and to predict 2% of GDP for 2007, the army rose. I'll be right there. And secondly, to eliminate the imbalances of January 1, 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u149	Anatoly Stepanovich, you're a military man.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u150	Disproportion with money, the army rose. Add to this item, make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u151	Mr. Secretary, instead of talking about the problems you've been ending, you've had another discussion with the Attorney General. The place of the Supreme Council is not the one, it's not the room where the discussions with the absent are taking place. This is your right: to have a discussion outside the walls of Parliament. Please don't deny it. And you've dedicated your entire report to the construction of the discussion that the Attorney General is doing. Yes, please, is Boris Ivanovich there? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I wanted to express my gratitude to those of you who wanted to hear who was listening, who was thinking. I would like to express my gratitude to those of you who disagree with me, who have a position. But I want to express my sympathy to those who have come to this room with a ready decision, and I want to express my sympathy to those who are not free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u153	Yes, respectable colleagues, replicas. Please, Simonenko, follow Volga in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat. Look at the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u154	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to two fundamental things, and the Minister's closing statement has convinced me that he will be embroiled in squabbles rather than thinking about the country's defence and military and military capabilities. It's not about the soldier and the officer, it's about the splits. This has only been possible as a result of the fact that it is there that corruption and organized crime have gone beyond all the scales that, so to speak, are killing our society today. I would like to draw your attention once again, especially to Mr. Tarasyuk's last phrase. Yes, he said that they “heard and listened.” I draw your attention, dear colleagues, that they did not report to you, to the American Embassy that came to their report, and to them they did report. And I am ashamed that today the two ministers have shown their insolence and have shown that they are not public husbands, but, moreover, they are not patriots of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u155	Volga, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen of nationalists! Get your hands off me! Gentlemen, gentlemen, I'm asking you to shake it up a little bit. Come on. Gentlemen, you know, after Mr. Tarasyuk's words, "they're going to be so eager," it's said with insight. But that's what it's about. Anatoly Stepanovich, as far as you're concerned, you have 50,000 homeless. You take a room, you're a person of common sense who rents you at least 3 million dollars a year and sells at a rate of 2.2 million dollars, covered in paper. You're a man of common sense, you're acting against your own Ministry of Defense and against your own soldiers, because you're not military. You don't know what this bread is. And I'm a military officer, I'm an officer of the atomic guidance fleet. And problems such as yours destroy and create problems for the people who serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u157	Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. Dear colleagues, I repeat, we are not gathered here on a round table. The minister had the opportunity to stand on the stand for 50 minutes, and two minutes to use the final word. Because the minister is about to start calling the names again, there are going to be replicas again. We're done. Question completed. On the one hand, right are those who say that this is the first hearing, on the other hand, not quite. Because it's not the first time we've listened to ministerial reports. The truth is, for the first time in accordance with constitutional reform according to a report by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers in Parliament, it is possible to evaluate him and determine whether he is still in one position or another. And reports aren't the first time. In terms of our decision. I'd like you to support the next proposal. I've already informed you before, Anatoly Kirilovich, when I reported from two committees, I said this again, I want to emphasize. This issue was discussed at a joint meeting of two profile committees, the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. After considering the matter, the committee members made the right decision, in my opinion. They're proposing that we give these two committees a mandate right now on the issue of ministerial reports, on the outcome of the debate, because we couldn't know in advance what these results would be, prepare the relevant draft Supreme Council rulings and issue these draft regulations for the next plenary week, which is 28 November – 1 December. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support this proposal to the committee. Please vote. [[12:59:42]] For-46 Now. Dear colleagues, then I ask, why did we listen to the report for three hours to avoid a decision? I repeat, I repeat, and I address you. And I'm addressing you, and I'm asking you to vote on a protocol decision to give an order. There will be no commission – one or the other will still make such a decision. This is a decision-making project I need to make, not wave my finger here. Please, Your Honor, once again, I ask you to support such a protocol decision. I'm voting on the proposal that for the next plenary week, 28 November -- December 1st -- profile committees should submit a draft ruling. And you and I will take this decision. What's that? The kind we'll take. Please vote. [[13:01:00]] For 246 The decision is made, although 150 votes are sufficient. Dear colleagues, is this how you and I are going to announce a 30-minute recess without a break? Then let's do this, let's work for 45 minutes without interruption. I'm betting on the vote, who, in order to work 45 minutes without interruption, please make up your mind. [[13:01:48]] For 261 Copy that. That's how we work for another 45 minutes. We need to consider a number of short-term issues. I ask you to vote on this decision. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:02:18]] For 269 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, let's thank the representatives of both ministries who participated in our reports. The Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Delimitation of Cases to Economic Courts and General Courts, Registration Nos. 2258, 2279, 2431, is under consideration. We're going to have three reporters here. I'll remind you of two minutes. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, prepare for Dmitri Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u158	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Mikola Onischuk, faction of “our Ukraine”, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the bills that will now be considered are actually mature and very relevant, and I want to draw your attention to this, because they address the important economic legal and, in fact, social problems associated with auditing. That is, with Parliament today adopting the relevant law, using the necessary instruments of a procedural nature to ensure that property relations, particularly in terms of corporate rights, end up with protection and legal order. Dear colleagues, what we're talking about. You know that today, due to the shortcomings of procedural legislation, there is a typical situation when decisions are taken in connection with corporate disputes by courts, various courts throughout the country, both domestic and general, especially local, and, in particular, approvals regarding security that essentially neutralizes any kind of case. Moreover, in such cases the decision of the courts itself is used to illegally privatize or acquire corporate rights or factories. And in view of the understanding of this problem, the representatives of all factions, I stress this, and Bills 2258, 2279 and 2431. Essentially close to content, they propose to amend the relevant laws, such as the Law on the Economic Procedural Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the Administrative and Procedural Code, which would establish the following rule. What is the matter, if it relates to a corporate dispute, can be dealt with only by one court at the location of the person. No other court on the borders of Ukraine can do that. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u159	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica. Prepare the powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u160	Dear National Deputies! In the process of preparing these bills to be considered on the committee, we have this kind of statistics. Over the past few years, nearly 20 companies have become hostages of the raiding that Mikola Vasilovich has been talking about. I support Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk's speech and I want to say that these negative phenomena have become possible because, according to current legislation, disputes between shareholders and economic societies are being considered not at the place where society is found, but throughout Ukraine. You are well aware of these scores of examples, where in one case, there were up to twenty decisions per object. And they were all completely different. So, of course, in the end, they can't be done. It is therefore proposed to amend the Code of Economic Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Judiciality and article 30 of the Law on Privatization of State Property. We believe that these changes will allow for the consolidation of court practice in order to overcome raiding and to prevent abuses of their rights not only by large shareholders but also by minority shareholders who have thousands of shares in the statutory fund, but can stop the activity of any society. And what I'm saying is that an active system of domestic courts can provide an organization to deal with these categories of cases at a high professional level by introducing an internal expertise of the courts. And, Adam Ivanovich, if I may, I'm on behalf of the committee at once. The committee considered these three bills with the participation of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, Mikli Vasilovich Onichuk, and we all came to the conclusion that they should be accepted, one of them, well, essentially all of them, as a basis. But one of them, who was reported by the National Deputy Onischuk, is more meaningful.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u161	Allow me to finish because he's from the committee's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u162	Therefore, it is proposed that the bill 2258 be adopted on the basis of which the committee should elaborate on the second reading of Bill 2258, taking into account the proposals made in the other two bills. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u163	Yes, thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich, sit down, please. Yes, Peter Alexiyovich is said to be approachable. Then I'd like you to sign up, the green buttons, the ones supporting the bill, the red buttons, who's against it. Yes, they only signed up for support. Please, Miroshnichenko Party of Regions, behind him Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u164	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to draw the attention of everyone in this room right now to the problem that the proposed package of bills solves. In fact, we were now discussing in the hall which one of them would be the basis. Since they essentially relate to the same object, that is, we should finally end the raid. And a lot of unconscionables, including, and I'm sorry to admit, legal companies are involved, in fact, in disposing of owners of their property. When in courts and we know that our judicial system needs to be restructured and improved. Some things I'm not exactly going to say right, some legal decisions are made, and sometimes they're made in two courts, and those decisions are mutually exclusive. And the executive service, sometimes two court executives come to the facility, and then the armed forces, on the one hand, the militia, on the other hand, are opposed to some private and so on. And in all of this, all the citizens blame us all, they don't divide where the Supreme Council is, where the Cabinet of Ministers is, where the opposition is, where the authorities are. They associate this with the disorder that is now prevailing in our country. So, regardless of factions, we, as experts on our committee, have considered this issue, and the communists, and the regions, and our Ukraine, and the representatives of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, have all come to the conclusion that this law is necessary, and must be adopted urgently. So I urge all my colleagues to support the draft bill proposed for first reading and thus put an end to this mess. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Prince Alexander Bondaru, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u166	“The Council”, “Our Ukraine” faction, Alexander Bondar. Dear Adam Ivanovich! We're finally going to solve a very important issue for privatization processes, we haven't talked about it since there's an addition to legislation that the disputes that arise in the privatization process are resolved only in the domestic courts. I used to ask that question when I was head of the foundation. Sadly, it was not supported by Parliament at the time. All the heads of the foundations that worked after this and today, Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, are always complaining that in different courts of the general jurisdiction of different levels, decisions that cost the state billions of dollars, are decided: one court, one court, one court, the other court, stops the competitions, resumes the competitions that were concluded 5-10 years ago. So this is an absolute, incomprehensible and chaos. So those proposals that are in this legislation, that this issue will finally be resolved, of course, need to be supported, this will lead to order in privatization processes, I'm not talking about the processes that take place when there are corporate conflicts. And taking into account the content of the three laws that have been tabled for Parliament's consideration, I would suggest that on the basis of the Onischuk project, as decided by the committee, and that the proposals that are in the projects of the deputies of Pritika, Prashenko, be taken into account in the second reading. I once again urge the MPs to support these very important documents for the state and to accept them today on the first reading, the Oneichuk project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Everyone was absolutely right. Well, just as a sign of deep respect. Protect, two minutes, your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u168	Thank you very much, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the authors of all the three bills that have brought them into our session room for discussion. The only thing I would like to point out is that yesterday, including hearings at the Razumkov Center, it was emphasized that these actions were all wrongly called raiders. Travelling is a civil battle against the use of judicial mechanisms for enterprises' assets. I don't know any civilised raiding activity. This is called “banditism” when, without any legal basis, using the criminal decisions of the courts of the first instance, individual businesses, using connections in the prosecutor's office and in the militia, in other law enforcement agencies, take over businesses by gangs. And I'm sure we don't have to limit ourselves to the adoption of this bill, that we have to be consistent and take the following steps to ensure that the judges who have made such decisions are necessarily held accountable. And second position. The draft law, which was introduced in the first edition, contains some contradictions, creates disagreements between the Master’s Code and the Administrative Procedural Codes. So we agreed with the drafters that we take all of these differences into account before the second reading, which I have specifically stressed on the committee, we submit the only harmonized draft for second reading and it is within the limits of the Rules, no later than two weeks, we accept, because the delay threatens a new gang redistribution of property that we have seen, unfortunately, in previous years. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u169	Thank you. You've told the story with knowledge. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. There was a profile committee proposal, and I think she's absolutely right. What's more, I'm reminding you that in Bill 2258, Onischuk, Pritica and Portnow are the authors here in almost every bill one and the same thing, so let's take the bill that the committee is proposing, 2258, and ask the committee to take into account all the valuables that are in the two other bills when preparing for the second reading. Please vote. [[13:16:10]] For 404 404, how about we take it right now? Yes, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. Registration number 2109. Short procedure. Basil Tsushko, please. Sergey Rybuk from the committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! The draft law is technological in nature. It was written by Ukraine's winepresses, which means that the law had been passed in the past, but the practice of the year had shown that some points needed to be clarified. Given that all our partners traded with Ukraine, especially the CIS, have begun to demand better quality of our products. We need to fix our own problems, and the bill is proposed for that purpose. I will say that the Committee had made comments to the bill, and the Scientific and Expert Office had also made comments. Therefore, on second reading, all members of the Committee agreed, on the Agrarian Committee, that all of this could be taken into account on second reading. I'm asking you to support me because the law is truly technological. Anyone who has any comments or suggestions with him will be able to submit a second reading. Therefore, I ask you to support him on his first reading. The Committee supported unanimously. Actually, it's two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u171	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Sergey Rybuk, please. Although they do not grow grapes in Zitomirsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u172	The honourable national deputies, the Committee on Agricultural Policy, support the bill because it substantially improves the law that exists today. And it's a long time to define not only terms, but also to improve this law, because, look, there were 11 horse factories in the state in 1990 -- there are now 28 horse factories. There's guilt in the state, according to official records -- 14 million dailies, two million dal cognac. But in fact, 14 million should multiply by two in the shadows, not two, and 4.5 million away is the ones in the shadows. And what the previous government did: From the 2006 budget, he erased the position, stopped the article. The Ukrainian Law “On Grapes, Grape Wine”, which provides for the creation of a government inspection of winemaking, grapes. So today, there's no authority in the state that controls and gets out of the shadows, one and a half billion U.S. dollars. So the committee proposes to take the basis of the bill and to work on it, taking into account the suggestions, the comments on repetition, the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Yeah, we'll talk about it? No, there is a desire to talk. Log down: 2 – “yes”, 2 – “against”. Yes, Sulkowski, please. The equation supports wine. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u174	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, equality does not grow this culture, but equality does support this sector, because grapes, wine, juices, and so on, it does bring great benefits to the people of Ukraine. So equality always supports such beautiful, so culture. The “Regions” faction has also been identified and unanimously supports this bill. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, which I am also a member of, we are contemporaries. And it calls on the committee, and I call on all the MPs to support this bill. This is really going to support this sector, and we're going to support the workers in this area, who are basically in a very difficult position today. That is why the state must support this sector, and this will only benefit our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u175	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u176	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. I like the author’s intentions. But I asked myself, ‘ Why does the government not support this Law, created by the majority? ’ Second, why is it thrown out of the Law of Vermouth and Brandy as stronger alcoholic beverages? Why don't you throw out your cognac? There's a question that there's a lot of textual technological rights that maybe even before the law, that's not an instruction -- the law. This should be for technologists. As for the protection of this area of production, which is very important and very profitable for the state, there are many white Fridays. I think that the scientific and expert administration of the law, that this law repeats something, changes to the Law repeat what is in the law about, in another law. This is because there is no support for the protection of scientific organizations working in this direction. I think that this bill needs to be re-readed and re-readed so that it can be accepted here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u177	Red wire, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u178	I'm handing over the word to Vasil Bogchuk, the faction of the Social Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u179	Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends of the MP! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ternopil The land I represent does not grow grapes, but we actively consume and love good wine. And we, my countrymen, were indignant about the time the vineyards were cut down. It was such a period. Today, it is a time when the vine must be restored and maintained actively. This bill is supported today by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We support this because this bill will create additional jobs. It's an extra salary, it's extra quality and good wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u181	Yes, thank you. The discussion is over, let's vote. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 2109, the draft Law amending the Law on Grapes and Wine. [[13:24:44]] For 298 298 even though there are sobers in the session room. Yes, the next draft of the Law on the Structure, Authorisation and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Agricultural and Production Association “Masandra”, 2136. The authors request that his consideration be postponed. Please support this decision. [[13:25:23]] For 299 We voted for our colleague Lazko, reminding or informing us to move the issue of Masandra to the next plenary week or when the authors agree on their positions. Dear colleagues, we have two laws regarding the cruel treatment of animals. Will you not deny that if we unite them, we will consider them together? Because it's the same reporter. We don't scream, we vote separately. Let's just look at it together. The presiding officer has such a right. So we're looking at draft laws amending the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, registration No. 1105, and the draft Act on the Maintenance and Treatment of Pets in Human Settlements, Registration No. 1211. Authors? There's no one to report. The committee's ready, Zyjenov? Ready? Please. Let's help the animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, according to Bill 1105. The bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Treatment is aimed at regulatory resolution of problems in the areas of detention and treatment of domestic animals in the local areas and local programmes for regulating the number of homeless animals. The issue of keeping animals and protecting them require further legislative development, and the committee suggests that work be continued in this direction. At the same time, the changes proposed by the authors are not sufficiently clear and nonsystemic, particularly in relation to tribal issues, relating to tribal breeding of domestic animals, the determination of the powers of the central executive authorities, the development of rules for the maintenance of animals, the creation of farming subjects, and so forth. Taking into account what has been said and taking into account the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Directorate, the committee proposes that this bill be sent to the authors of the legislative initiative for further development and re-imposing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to Bill 1211 introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Komar, Matthew, Pisarczuk, Potapiv, the draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Conservation and Treatment of Pets in Popular Places, according to its general content, the sphere of legal regulation has much to do with the current law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Treatment and refers to the same issues. The project lacks a clear definition of important positions, such as animal ownership, pet outing, animal shelters, and so forth. The Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing rely on functions that do not belong to this executive body and do not correspond to the Ministry. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill contains sound proposals that have the right to introduce and can be implemented by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. Taking into account what has been said, the committee proposes a draft Ukrainian law on "Keeping and Treating Pets in Human Settlements" to reject, and to take into account, in the drafting of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Conduct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u183	And to you, Michael Alexanderovich, thank you for your clear position on the committee and for your understanding. Shall we discuss it? We will. Sign up. Green, red. The buttons I'm talking about. Is it yellow? Yes, please, Mikola Tomenko supports. Please. None. Is it? Oh, I'm sorry, I looked at the girls. Please, Mikoli Tomenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u184	Adam Ivanovich, please tell Mrs. Olga Bondar, she will express the only consolidated position of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u185	Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u186	Thank you. I want to say the next thing. The question is far too serious for him to make such a joke. So I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to I want to say why this button that came to me means yes. I'm just trying to get our society back face-to-face to those animals that, in principle, are given a candle to help us and to be our brothers in life. I want to tell you this. This bill cannot be adopted if we believe that animals can raise us spiritually, that animals can help us. This bill, which is proposed in the first since 1105, it will raise, it will do nothing, except that it will only impose on the establishment of the utilities of the enterprise in the area of maintenance and treatment of animals in populated areas, which requires additional costs from local budgets. The current version of the Local Self-Government Act does not determine the responsibility of local self-government authorities to create these organs. I would also like to point out that, besides requiring additional costs, I still want to tell you that, you don't have to invent your own bike when it was invented long ago and it's already confirmed its right to exist. Let's just do what's done in all the civilized countries. Let us initiate the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Domestic Animals. And when we ratify this convention. We're going to have to do something about taking your high-priority time for a little bit of what you think is animal rights protection. I propose project 1105 is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u187	Thank you. Vizier is passing it on to Bespalloma Boris. Please prepare Ribhub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. I'm also supporting the pro, I'm in favour of the committee position in this case. Well, as far as Law 1211 is concerned, I think you can't really accept it, that's the case. Now, 1105, which the committee recommended that we work on. I'm paying attention to what's here. The first article, and this is half of the project, maybe it's right, maybe it's wrong, but that's not the law. We have laws that regulate animal life, tribal affairs. And that's probably where these things are. With regard to other issues, it is suggested that the maintenance rules in the settlements were adopted by the Cabinet. But the point is that, for example, in Odessa, Kharkiv, or Donetsk, you can write such a thing as walking out of cities with special equipment. But in Kalinovka or in Ivanovica, you will be laughed at when you are told that animals should walk in places specially equipped. Therefore, these rules must be adopted in areas, or in every place. This is the authority of local self - government. Second rule. It seemed here. They don't like that there's a lot of animals out there, they're going to shoot them, they're going to take money. That's the wrong position. What's the problem? There is another problem in protecting people from harsh conduct. Here comes the animal of increased aggression, and next to the irresponsible host. Both of them without the thugs. And there is a rule that they can be fined. But try to approach! In fact, I worked as a professional dog - management instructor at the time, and we were evicted from unwitting animal owners. So I think the challenge is to create, I'm looking at executive power, to create, maybe, units that would be able to, well, in these cases just apply the law. That's what this is about. That's what we have to do. And you don't have to pass those laws. And I encourage the authors to work together, they agree to these proposals. And together, we're going to make the changes that we need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u189	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Only how will the knucklehead be Ukrainian? Sergey Rybuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u190	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt to support the opinion and suggestions of the PIC committee for further work. And that's why, first of all, it's serious stuff, you have to go deeper, it's qualified, it's thoughtful. We do have the Animal World Act, there is the Veterinary Medicine Act, there is the Tribal Affairs Act, and there is nothing in this bill about the protection of animals against cruel behaviour. There is only a question of tribal affairs concerning the Law on Tribal Affairs. That's the first one. Moreover, even the very name of the draft Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruelty is narrow, it can only be a chapter of another law or of the unified two bills. Why? We have the Law, for example, "On Plant Protection" and dot. It can then write about animal protection and a dot, and then write both zoos, and episodes, and all other forms of animal protection. I mean, on each side look at the laws of these and the positions that they write down are supposed to be embodied as in the law, but in a different form and in a much better sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u191	Thank you. The discussion is over. So let's figure it out. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Proposal by the Committee for the return of the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill No. 1105 Please be supportive. For processing. [[13:36:07]] For 379 A decision has been made. Yeah, and I'm putting in a motion for a committee to reject Bill 1211. Please be supportive. [[13:36:34]] For 381 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, we have a matter of ratification left. The draft Law on the Ratification of an Agreement on the Illicit Navigation at Sea, submitted for the implementation of article 17 of the United Nations Convention on the Suppression of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Who's the reporter for the Justice Department? Alexander Volodymyrovich, please drill the papers, please. Get Jizzy ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u192	Dear Lord Chairman! Honorable National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Illicit Traffic at Sea, which is incorporated into article 17 of the United Nations Convention to Combat the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. The United Nations Convention to Combat the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances was signed in Vienna on December 20, 1988. An agreement on illegal sea circulation is made for the implementation of article 17 of that convention. It has been developed within the framework of the Council of Europe to implement paragraph 9 of this article and has been open for signature since January 31, 1995. After becoming effective for Ukraine, the treaty provides the basis for the international cooperation of our State in combating the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances at sea, in accordance with international law of the sea, and with full respect for the principle of rights, freedoms and navigation, regulating the interaction of competent authorities, the promotion of jurisdiction and the application of coercive measures. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Illicit Traffic at Sea is designed to implement article 17 of the United Nations Convention to Combat the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, as it were, to carry out the internal State procedures necessary to determine the validity of the said agreement. Since, pursuant to article 27, the treaty becomes effective for the State that signed it on the first day of the month following the end of the three - month period following its consent to be bound by the agreement. To date, the treaty has been ratified and has become effective for nine European Council members of the 11 countries that have signed it. The provisions of the Agreement regulate the implementation of article 17 of the United Nations Convention on the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, regulate the jurisdiction of States, the activities of military and other ships or aircraft in government service, and the competent authorities of States in cases where a commercial vessel is involved in illicit drug or precursor traffic. This activity does not impede or prejudice the exercise of the rights and obligations and the jurisdiction of coastal States under international maritime law. The main legislative acts in this area of legal regulation are the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine “On measures against the illicit circulation and abuse of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors”, and the United Nations Convention to Combat the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Ratification and application of the Agreement will enhance the ability of States to cooperate internationally in the area of combating illicit drug and psychotropic substances at sea, contribute to the improvement of Ukraine's image as a nation open to effective cooperation in this area. The implementation of the Treaty will not require additional costs and will be carried out within the limits of the funds foreseen in the State budget of Ukraine for the financing of the relevant public authorities. It is suggested that the text of the Law, which is ratified, should make a number of warnings that are provided for in the Covenant itself. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u193	Thank you. Will there be questions for the minister? Yes. Then please sign in. Yeah, it's on, well, let's do three minutes. Please, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! Understandably, the need for ratification is needed, but please explain why so few nations have signed this treaty today. In particular, you've named 11 only 9 into the European states, because the maritime European states are much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u195	Well, that's a question for these countries. We cannot regulate foreign political activities in other countries of Europe. At present, this was done by those countries that considered it necessary to accede to the Convention and ratify the corresponding agreements that were signed in Strasbourg. Ukraine has carried out such an act, has signed it under this treaty, and today, according to the procedures envisaged, a ratification law is being passed on to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u196	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u197	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear reporter, imagine that our services have detained a foreign ship, held it for a while, then found nothing, no one to pay for it? And is budgeted for such terrible expenses?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u198	In the State Budget, it is not possible to anticipate that officials will act on behalf of the crew, to take steps that will not be in line with this agreement or the laws of Ukraine. To that end, we have a law that provides for compensation for expenses incurred by the state or state officials who acted contrary to the laws of Ukraine. In this case, this Convention will only contribute to allowing us, in accordance with this Agreement, with other countries, to retain those sea vessels for which there will be certain information that drugs and psychotropic substances are present or that are provided for in this Agreement. And after the arrest, the procedure for transferring these citizens, who are on board, confiscating these narcotics and more, let's say, their fate. Talking about what it'll do is that it'll delay all the trials that there are, here, I don't think there's any reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u199	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u200	Thank you. My colleague Kirilchuk asked me a question, although none of us got the answer, because there would be millions of compensatory losses. Therefore, please give the floor to a colleague of Udovenko Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u201	Please, Widow Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u202	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you said there were some warnings the Ukrainian party would make when signing but did not name them. But I remember one warning that worries me a little: that our citizens, who will be condemned in other countries, will be returned to Ukraine for punishment. I'm not really. It's a violation of the defendant's rights. Perhaps if he was convicted in the United States and then returned from their prison, it would be a double or triple punishment for him. To the extent that this will be necessary for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u203	This will not be necessary. You have rightly pointed out that such a warning is before article 8, paragraph 2, of the Eighth Treaty, and it sounds so that Ukraine claims that, acting as an intervention State, it will intervene on condition that persons who have their citizenship and have been handed over to the flag State in accordance with article 15 of the Treaty and who are convicted of the relevant offence will have the opportunity to be transferred back to Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out the prescribed punishment. So this is how the question is settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u204	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the profile committee, Mikola Vasilovich Giga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, the bill proposes to ratify the treaty with the declarations and warnings provided for by the treaty and caused by the features of the current legislation of Ukraine. In particular, persons, and this is the main position of this convention, persons who have Ukrainian citizenship have been sentenced, handed over to the flag State, in accordance with article 15, and have been convicted of appropriate wrongdoing, will have the opportunity to be transferred back to Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out the prescribed punishment. The designated authorities responsible for making requests and responding to them are the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The report on the exercise of the dominant jurisdiction is the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The application of the Treaty defines the use of Ukrainian, or one of the official languages of the Council of Europe. The main scientific and export administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been designated, positively assessed, to provide a legal basis for the international cooperation of our State in the fight against illicit drug and psychotropic substances at sea, in accordance with international law of the sea, regulating the interaction of competent authorities, the exercise of jurisdiction and the application of enforcement measures against persons. Those who committed these offences. The Committee on Legal Policy has not established any indication of the inadequacy of the bill of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis for its first reading, as a whole, as the Law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u206	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? Then, with your permission, I put to the vote the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Illicit Traffic at Sea, which was set up to implement article 17 of the United Nations Convention on the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Registration number 0044. Please vote. [[13:49:05]] For 401
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-15-m0.u207	Act adopted, treaty ratified. At this, my dear colleagues, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I remind you that since 16 hours we've been working on committees and MP factions. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
