ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, other participants in our meeting, guests of the Supreme Council! I ask the deputies to take their seats and prepare for registration. Enable the "Council" system, registration is under way. [[10:01:19]] Registered -409 The morning session is open. I'm addressing all the deputies, let's welcome the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. [[Applause]] We wish him health, inspiration in lawmaking, and public work. I'm making an announcement that there was a conflict in the session room yesterday, I understand, a misunderstanding between the deputies. I have today accepted the leadership of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, factions. She made a suggestion on the basis of article 48 of the Rules to find out further issues related to the decision to establish a temporary special commission. I make such an appointment to the Rules of Procedure Committee, which is the subject of the Rules. He's going to put the dots over the "and" and we're going to hear that question again in the session room. Let's move on. You have the order of the day on your hands. You know him. So let us begin our day - to - day consideration. On September 13, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected on March 26, 2006, in a multi-mandatory public constituency that was included in the election list of the Party of Regions and other political parties. Therefore, the oath of these national deputies must be taken immediately so that they can enter into their responsibilities. That's why I call it. From the Party of the Regions: Demidka Volodymira Mikolaiovich. Please come to Parliament's rostrum. [[Applause]] Please, please, hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u3	Thank you. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] He is invited to make an oath to the rostrum by the national deputy of Bichkov Sergey Anatoliyovich. It's from the "Our Ukraine" Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u4	I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Anatoliyovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u5	Welcome. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum from the Socialist faction. Rather, it should be said “from the Socialist Party”, the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u6	I, Ukrainian national deputy Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u7	Thank you. [[Applause]] He is invited to the rostrum to make an oath to the Ukrainian national deputy Demidko Volodymyr, and he has already been. Demšin Vasil Vasilovic, from the “Regions” Party. After him, Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u8	I, the Ukrainian national deputy Demchisin Vasil Vasilovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u9	Hello. [[Applause]] The National Deputy Zubko Yuri Grigorovitch of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the rostrum. After him, Litwinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u10	I, Ukrainian national deputy Zubko Yuri Grigorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u11	Congratulations. [[Applause]] He is invited to the rostrum for the formation of an oath by the national deputy of Ukraine, Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovich. He's got Mitrishkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u12	I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u13	People's deputy Mitroshkin Igor Aleksandrovich is invited to the rostrum to make an oath, followed by Razganyev, from the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u14	I, Ukrainian national deputy Mitroshkin Igor Aleksandrovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u15	Congratulations. [[Applause]] On the rostrum is the National Deputy of Rozganyev Mikhailo Vasilovich of the Party of the Regions. Behind him is Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u16	I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Rozganijela Mikhailo Vasilovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u17	Thank you. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Savosin Hennaday Anatoliyovich, from the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u18	I, Ukraine’s national deputy Savosin Hennaday Anatoliyovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u19	Thank you. [[Applause]] National deputy Falko Volodymir Ivanovich of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine is invited to the rostrum. After him, Jakimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u20	I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Falko Vladimir Ivanovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland, and to protect the well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u21	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yakimenko Mikola Evgeniyovich, from the Party of the Regions, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u22	I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Jakimenko Mikola Evgeniovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland, and to protect the well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u23	Thank you. [[Applause]] Deputies! I'd like all of us to welcome our colleagues with the fact that they are serving as national deputies. We wish them, and all of us, friendly work, understanding and success in legislative work. Let's welcome them. Let us give our applause to our new colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you. The question of the termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Zvaricz Roman Mihajlovich, is being considered. Report to the chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please. Before that, I want to say two words. Can I have your attention, please? Roman Mikhailovich, as you recall, later wrote a statement to others. Because he spoke, there is a political situation, I have to be convinced that the coalition will be created and that he has support in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Such guarantees have been given to him in his conversation with the Prime Minister, and I understand that the President also supports such a proposal. So he immediately wrote a statement the other day, and the committee considered it. Alexander Sergiyevich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u24	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee on Rules, MP's Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 13th, at the meeting, reviewed the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, who was appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the People's Deputy. On the basis of the first part of the second part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee decided to support the application and made an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Powers of the Chef Roman Mihajlovich. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u25	Is there no objection? I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich. Please identify yourself. [[10:16:01]] For 371 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the appointment of the Prutnik as Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u26	Good morning, dear fellows! The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information recommends that the Supreme Council support the candidature of Edward Prutnik, although I say that the vote was not unanimous. The result of the vote on the committee was nine votes in favour, two votes in favour. What was the subject of the discussion when we met with Edward yesterday, we talked about whether there would be a choice before the new head of the Derteradio, whether the committee would be the headquarters of the community-speaking community, or whether the committee could be the roof for the derebent of state and television companies. We asked these questions to the candidate, and our colleague Edward Prutnik, he assured us that he would support the idea of public speaking, would support the idea of dissuasion of the media. And he expressed his willingness to support the moratorium on privatization or renting state broadcasters. So the committee proposes to approve Edward Prutnik in this position and hopes that he will continue to work honestly and effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. No questions asked. Wait a minute, there's a question. Just a minute. You have a question, I see, for the reporter. Apart from Roman Immortal, there are no others, so please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u28	Immortal, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Your Honor Andrew Vitaliovich, how you will react to such a proposal that this is a personal decision, and the next one that we are currently discussing will not be implemented because a coalition dialogue is going on to ensure that we do not destroy the fragile balance that has arisen. The question of whether this was agreed upon in the coalition will not be answered, and then it will mean that from tomorrow to tomorrow, both supporters and opponents will present claims. So we don't answer the question of the stability of work, of the committee, of the National Television, of radio talk. Why? Because you yourself have raised the problem that the committee has been discussing the concept of development, but there is no answer in any coalition document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u29	I'll say that the formation of a coalition, the more broad coalitions, is not a subject of knowledge of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. The deputies asked all the questions they had, received answers, and were satisfied with these answers. Therefore, the committee sees no reason to postpone the decision. I think everything else is a political decision of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u30	Thank you, have a seat, please. Edward Prutnik is invited to the rostrum. I don't think we're going to ask him about his biography, he's chosen as a deputy, and the documents about him are on your hands, and if there's any questions about him, is there a question? Sign up for a question, five minutes, please. Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u31	Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions. We know you as a professional, we know that you own the subject that you're talking about, but what's interesting to me? So let me put it this way, media workers aren't very socially protected, they have their own particular company, they work there, but they're low pay. Not a lot of people get directions, more than that, we know that there are problems with not being protected, I would say, politically. Can you do so so that you can ask what social, or housing, questions to solve these questions? First of all, the journalist should be independent of any political power, including our political power that you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u32	Journalist independence is the desire, perhaps, of the whole state and of the people in this room. And in terms of social protection, we plan to create a national network of television sets and radios, and work on all the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u33	Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u34	Edward Anatolyovich, I'm sure there's not as many questions as I'd like to ask. The first, indeed, is to be successfully selected. The second is to get the job right so there's less problems. And the third is that you're in the journalistic field, especially with regard to the state media today, there are still some social and serious distortions where a number of workers who can be referred to creative, as well as those who perform technical functions, but who are involved in the creative process, are deprived of a number of social guarantees that exist for creative workers in journalism. I express this wish and I hope that these imbalances will help you to remove so that these people can really focus their attention on the creative process and not get distracted by the very complex social problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u35	I am very grateful to you and I want to say that we understand all these questions and we will work with you. In our view, as we now see, the problem needs to be changed around 10 laws. And it's going to take about 15 to 17 Kabmin's orders for us to go in this direction and do these tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u36	Thank you. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u37	Thank you, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of Regions. Dear Edward Anatolyovich! If we did not speak of the political component of your office, it would certainly be the first step in fulfilling your professional responsibilities. Now we're having a conversation with you, and there's a session coming up and she's mostly listening to people who are listening to it on what's called a live radio. These are broadcasting points in the district centers, in our villages, where people basically have the information they need in the country, in view of the development of the political system of our society. So my first question is, what is the prospect of further development of this major broadcasting network in Ukraine today? And the second question, as it were, is which comes out of it more generally. In general, your future policy of strengthening the material and technology base, the radio communication network of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Maybe this is where we collide in our views on the radio. But I'm more concerned about the radio than the audience listening to our session because of it, or something else that's a national security alert somewhere. Do not give God any technological or any other significant change, we do not have a tool to describe the population of the State. This is a very important question, and in one of the ten laws this question is written down, because in building new heights there should be radio stations. Material engineering is itself. But here, both the budget, the district budgets, and the state budget, there are a lot of questions for today. But in public language we've been looking at, Andria and I have been talking, so there's a couple of public speaking options based on district state broadcasters, or some other options. So we're working on this question and we're definitely going to communicate and I'm going to report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u39	Okay. Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u41	Mr. President, I'm very sorry that with your transfer to another post, and I am convinced that you will be voted in, that a reporter's wing will be exposed, and that journalist Kalashnikov will be severely deprived without you. That's my question. You know what a sad situation the Ukrainian Book - Publishing Society is in today. I have to say today that the huge amount of money that comes from your committee was actually distributed across the board, and the Writer's Society, the Writer's Society, didn't get a penny of it. Please tell me you're willing to break this disgraceful tradition and make this process open and completely understandable to both writers and Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u42	I mean, what I'm saying, for example, is that it's self-involved, but I'm really embarrassed to find out that in the State Committee where I'm offered, there's a bookstore where 80 years are kept, for 80 years, every book that was published in Ukraine is kept, every single one. And in what conditions this is kept, and by its potential, it's more than the library of Vernadian. And I think it's very wrong that this potential is not being used in the public domain. And the publication will certainly correct that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u43	Please have a seat. Thank you, take your seats. I say, there are those who wish to speak. I see there have been questions. Expressions. May I put it to a vote? I'm putting to the vote Prutnikov, Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyevich, a candidate for the presidency of the State Committee. The draft is in your hands. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:26:58]] For 244 Decision taken. Let us welcome Eduardo Anatoliyovich and wish that all the suggestions made here in the hall were implemented with his help, or with his participation. By factions, please make public. 179 votes in favour – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 17, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPI – 25, Communists – 21. Decision taken, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the matter. I'll explain the results of the vote. Regrettably, not all the national deputies who have just become national deputies have received voting cards, so these numbers are the result of the vote. We are going to consider 12 draft regulations, twelve draft regulations relating to amendments, amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, the First Deputy, the Deputy Head and the Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. In that order, we will listen to the authors of the legislative initiative. Bill 1159-1 will report to Efraemov, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At the committee meeting, there was a draft regulation, registration number 1159-11, concerning the change in the composition of the committees. It is proposed that Ukraine’s National Deputies be elected as members of the Party of the Regions’ Dept.: McKeenko Volodymira Volodymyrovic, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, exempting him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee. Kostusev Aleksija Alexiyovich is the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. Za Aleksandra Viktorovich is the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u46	Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry, what kind of draft decision are you going to report? I gave you the 1159-1 project. This is to choose Matthew as an environmentalist, freeing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on European Integration. While you're looking, dear colleagues, let's consult. Will we vote each and discuss each decision separately, or will we discuss it together? No, we're going to vote on each decision separately -- it's beyond question. But will we discuss each decision separately or all together?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u47	Together, right? Turn around? Yes, who for that, excuse me, who for all the decisions to make all the decisions, which is absolutely not in conflict, because it is one question of the Rules to discuss together, I ask to vote. [[10:30:29]] For the 250. Decision taken. Now, please sign up for the discussion. First comes the faction entry. We're recorded by the faction and then by the national MPs. Please explain. Three people's deputies from factions were enrolled, and now they're writing a statement by deputies regardless of which faction they belong to. So three of the factions, nine minutes, and regardless of whether they belong to the factions, 15. We'll take 24 minutes to discuss it. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, 1159-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u48	A statement was made to the committee by the national deputy, Matthew Eduard Alexiyovich, about the withdrawal of his previous statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u49	So 1159-1 cancels out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u50	Statement withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u51	And the committee supported it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u52	I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Bill 1159-2, Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u54	I'd ask by my family's name, because I'm in a bad state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u55	It's about Burlakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u56	Burlakova Pavel Mikolaiovich was elected to the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u57	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u58	1159-3. Darda Alexander Panasovich. The election of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, the use and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing. The quota is, the committee supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u59	Please, number four on the Mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u60	There are two orders in Rudnik: 1159-4, he withdrew his application, and there is his second application for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u61	Excuse me, what's the decision of the friend? What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u62	She's on application.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u63	So he called this one off.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u64	He withdrew his previous application and made the following statement. And it was discussed on the committee's application.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u65	A statement about what? To what committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u66	The election of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications by releasing a member from the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality. There is no quota, the committee has not supported, the deputy insists on considering this issue in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u67	Okay, okay. 1159-5 on Tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u68	Tobacco user Jakov Phinewicz for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption, relieved of the duties of the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. There's no quota, the committee didn't support it. The MP also insists on a hearing in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u69	Thank you. 1159-6 from Selyvarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u70	Selovarov Andri Borisovich. On the election of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. No quota, no quota, no committee. The MP also insists on the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Seven. Gerasimük
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u72	Gerasimuk Olga Volodymyrna The election of a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Justice by vacating a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. Quota used. The committee didn't support it. The MP, as I understand it, also insists on the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u73	Thank you. 59-8. According to Clertkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u74	Dhrtkov Yuri Dmitrovich for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Foreign Affairs, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration. There's a quota. The Committee made a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u75	Yeah, 1159-9.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u76	Mr. Geller Evgeny Borisovich on the election of him to the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization. It's a positive committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u77	Yes, thank you. 10th Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u78	Kovalevska Yulia Sergiyevna on the election of her member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, liberating members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self - Government. There was no agreement on the faction in the committee. There is now agreement between the faction, but the MPs have returned to the faction yesterday with Kovalevsky's request not to consider the transition, but to consider the quota available in this Committee of Jury Mikola Volodymyrovic for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, discharging the duties of members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u79	Yeah, that's 10. 11. let's do that, 11 is already a little bit about election, about election. Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u80	It is proposed that, as I said before, Matvienka Vladimir Vladimirovich be elected head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters by releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the committee; Kostujeva Alexija Alexiyovich as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters; Zaza Alexandra Viktorovich as first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and recovery of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Tikhova Viktor Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, relieved the deputy head of the committee. Korža Pavel Petrovich is the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the fuel and energy complex. Nuclear policy and nuclear security. The hunchback was agreed upon on the committee. The coat of arms of Anatolia Alexiyovich is the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Last night, the deputy and he agreed to the position -- and they're offering from the faction to this position of Lukjanova Vladislav Valentinović. There is agreement on both sides. The Lukyanov Committee is not under review, and it is suggested that we consider it in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u81	Please, is he on the same committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u82	He's on the same committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u83	Okay, thanks. Yes, Your Honor, the report is closed. If you have any questions, please sign up. Please, five minutes. Please, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u84	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, you have given the Supreme Council such an array, such a moment of these changes that the national deputies have not been able to think or analyze or appreciate. Wouldn't it be better if we split up a little bit, or in time, or in meetings, so that we could study these recommendations? And I have a question like that. How did the members of the Regulatory Committee evaluate these candidates when discussing them? Isn't that just a mechanical filling of vacancies? Are you responsible for the criteria of professionalism, of experience? Will there be a weakening of the committee's activity from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u85	Thank you. There is an appropriate procedure under the Rules to deal with the matter. I did not introduce such a mass, and this was done by the faction leaders concerned, agreeing to move these candidates from one committee to another. With regard to the raids of the regulatory committee, there is a quota that has a fraction. If the leaders of the faction agree on the transfer of a member under the existing quota, there is no reason for the regulatory committee to refuse the matter. If there is no quota, then the Committee decides not to move because the faction does not have a quota on a committee. But, given what the MPs are insisting, believe me, very persistently, I apologize for the tautology of the matter. That is why I have to put this issue in the Hall, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the second part, really, in the regulatory committee, apart from what Alexander Sergiyovich said, there is absolutely no right of professionalism to test and so on and so forth. They're just checking for quota. Please, Welder Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u87	Thank you. I'd like to ask you this question, Mr. Igor Ivano-Frankivsky, the Party of the Regions. If, despite the ruling of the regulatory committee, we accept those proposals, aren't the proposals that are being made today, particularly on issues where the regulatory committee has not supported and that violates the quota principle, how will we proceed then?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u88	It is the right of the Chamber to decide on this matter. My point of view from this point of view, I have already reported to her here in the Hall that it would be reasonable for the factions to gather and agree on this matter within the faction. But given that, in fact, everyone's deputy, he has the right by law to write a statement to the committee in which he wants to work and he insists, therefore, the prerogative of the chamber to determine the matter. If the Chamber makes a positive decision, then the MP will serve on the committee in which the Chamber was established, if the decision is negative, then he will remain on the Committee where he had previously worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u89	Please, Roman Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u90	Immortal, Our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! Do you not think that in the decision that the heads and deputies of committee heads are spoken, it would be better to gather the positions of all factions. And as we voted it at the beginning of the Supreme Council's work, to vote all changes by one decree. Why? Because tomorrow the other factions are going to run, and it's going to turn out to be that some factions are supporting, others are not supporting. And then we'll start talking again about who's doing the deal, who's not doing it, and what the Rules say. So this is our proposal: this is a question of deferral, as far as decision 1159-11 is concerned, to collect proposals from all factions and by the only vote to vote on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. I think there should be a little bit of a different approach here. When we allocated the quota representation to the committees, a quota office for heads and alternate committees was also distributed. Therefore, according to the quota, nothing is violated here. If there is a proposal for the replacement of leaders and substitutes for our Ukrainian quota, it will also be considered in the committee and placed in the session room. We have no right to delay consideration of these issues. Believe me, there are quite a number of issues to be considered in the Committee. We finished all the questions yesterday quite late at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, sit down, please. Yeah, let's move on to the question. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, please, from the faction "Our Ukraine." Prepare Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u93	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Thanks to the broadcast on the whole of Ukraine, not only the session hall, but also the viewers and audiences of Ukraine were able to make sure that the issue was simply not prepared, because the committee head kept saying, “There is no agreement, there is no quota” and so on. Roman Petrovich Immortal noted this in his question. The second question. That, according to the Rules, not only are the governing positions on the committees, namely, the head of the committee, the first deputy, the deputies, the secretary of the committee, are allocated proportionally to the number of factions per quota, but also to the membership of the committee. This is the norm of the Rules. Therefore, the reference to the fact that the session room may be anything is not the correct reference. The session room can do anything, but within the framework of the law and the Rules. The session room can first change the Rules really, and then already engage in personnel activity. Finally, since this is a question that concerns everyone without excluding factions – both the factions of the governing coalition and the opposition factions – it is a question that has been prepared and a question of the level of the Conciliation Council in general. As we have seen from the report of the committee’s chairman, he is really placed in a forced position, for as chairman of the committee he cannot refuse to report the matter. But this is not just a matter of one Regulatory Committee, it is not a formal question, it is a meaningful question, it is a question of work for all five years, and it is a question of the level of the Conciliation Council. Therefore, the position of “Our Ukraine” is that this decision, in particular on the governing composition of the committees, is not to vote at all, as the issue is not prepared. Questions arise with regard to the rules of proportionality. And to consider this issue through the Conciliation Council and to make a coherent draft decision. And one more thing. I think we're all interested, that five years of the Supreme Council has worked, despite our differences, that we have different political positions, as a coherent body, which still works on the state, regardless of what different situations we may have. So I don't think we need to produce conflict in a completely equal place where there's no reason for it. The governing coalition has enough votes to finally implement its position in a legitimate way. And breaking through the knee, and pushing the MP's body, simply artificially provoking conflicts, is also totally inappropriate. Therefore, by generalizing our statement and the position of our faction, we propose that these decisions be withdrawn at this time and not taken part in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u94	Please, Oleg Lazko, faction of the "Timoshenko Block". Get ready for Kruglo's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u95	As my colleague Efraemov said, the committee does not support the statements made by the national deputies of Tobacco, Rudnik, Selovarov, King, Gerasimük, Kucherenko, Antipenko, and the Head of the Committee to move from one committee to another, for reasons that the quota is exhausted. Instead, the committee supports the statements made by Burlakov, Darda, Čertkova, Gjellier, Kovalevsky on or election of members of the Special Commission on Privatization of the Control Board, or on the transition to another committee because there is a quota. We're really on the committee, this is Oleg Grigorovich Belarus' answer, we haven't considered the question of the profession of candidates. The factions, leaders of factions who agree with these statements, are obviously responsible for this. That's why we support the statements made by the National Deputies, which are supported by the Regulatory Committee. And we call on the majority, the coalition majority, not to vote, not to support applications to move to other committee members of the coalition. Why? Because you know that the composition of committees is built on a quota principle and you can't break those quotas, because then the balance will be broken. And it's going to kind of undermine rights, including, and opposition, because there's a balance of interests in each committee between factions. So, of course, you can force yourself through, for example, Mr. Tobacco from the Committee on Culture at the Committee on Organized Crime, but I think the same voters will ask questions as to why Mr. Tobacco isn't directly involved in what he's a number one specialist not only in Ukraine but also in the world, but to fight corruption we have someone, including someone else. So we ask our colleagues from the coalition majority to support the committee's decision and not support draft regulations that the Rules Committee has not supported. We would also like to say about the draft decision of the People's Deputy of Ephraim to elect the heads and deputies of the committees of MacKeenka, Kostusev, Zac, Tihonova, Korja and Horbatuk. These are the quota positions of the Party of the Regions, and that's why we don't deny that these people are elected, because the faction of the Regions is responsible for these people. So we don't deny supporting these people, but we ask the coalition majority not to violate quotas or vote for the transition of deputies who claim quotas above that. And I would also like to say that our deputies are being relocated from their places without agreement and with them and with the faction, this is an attack on the opposition. Maybe tomorrow we'll be evicted from the hall? Yesterday, we were reluctant to accept the commission's creation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u96	Oleg Valeriyovich, there is no official opposition yet. Please, instead of Kruglov Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions, then Korz Vitali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! So, as we're talking about this package, it might seem like we could do it with a pack and vote, as we voted with you earlier, voting for the heads of committees, committee members and so forth. But the Rules of Procedure do not provide for such a thing, so we will vote separately for each candidate. I would strongly disagree with my colleague from “Our Ukraine”, who said that this issue is not prepared. Let us not confuse sin with the righteous. The right of the Ukrainian national deputy to choose a committee for himself. The right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant him permission or not to grant him permission. I want to recall my first election to the Committee on Social Policy, six months later the Supreme Council did not give me that right, six months later I was elected to this committee, and many of my fellow national deputies may recall that this was the situation with them. Which may be at the core of a particular conflict, not a conflict, but a contradiction that is now unfolding in our eyes. The basis of some contradiction in the approach to human resources today and in the future may be this very imbalance, and this is our fault, the legislative imbalance in the official status of the opposition. But it's kind of at first sight. And in fact, the main thing is the maturity of the process itself, the political structure of our society. Dear colleagues! Let us not forget and constantly emphasize to our voters: Ukraine has just embarked on this experiment of the political structure of society. We are, as it were, in the transition period. Just like our transition economy with all the negatives of this transitional status, so is our political structure. Of course, if we view opposition as a means of returning to power, there will be no order in our political system. Opposition is not a means of regaining power, opposition, if you want, missionaryism. It's an ungrateful job, and it's a job they're once doing, people aren't today and not tomorrow. Or opposition is an instrument of power that has a strong response to the actions of the authorities, explaining to society the content of what is happening in Ukraine. And the main thing, predicts, is possible, the consequences are opposition. Or opposition creates a real legislative opposition to the law that goes into the hall, which is opposition. Then the opposition can talk about some of its personnel claims. But if, by covering up opposition slogans or opposition status, some political power in the room, in the media, is hysterical, psychopathic, demonstrating a constant tendency to pathological lying and to every kind of adventure, it's not opposition. That is why we today have a specific situation. The questions studied by the committee, the committee reported what it had, he reported quota, and we will be identified in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Vitaly Corge, the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko" behind him Kamchatny. Please, who are you giving the word to? Yavorowski, please, from the site of the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u99	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. The great Reagan said a beautiful phrase that I like very much: “The introduction of abortion is mainly due to those who have been born” is a very good phrase and a very good idea. As an MP, I sit and constantly think about what caused this huge displacement of peoples, great displacement, and what happened to us. What happened and several deputies went to executive power? So all right, and let these new deputies who have taken an oath today, let them “become part of” the Supreme Council, calmly deal with the matter, and then we can discuss it with them. Two, what I'd like to say. Adam Ivanovich, we need to think that factions are wonderful, factions are taking on the global political issues that they solve here under this dome, which is very often, this "chicken" is being raised out of passion. But committees are working bodies that actually do routine, black work and I'm very concerned and I've been and I've been the head of the committee once before, and I know that at the time the concept of the committee was at a much higher level than it is today. This needs to be worked out and thought through. When there's a question going on, I'm sure we should think about it together and together with, let's say, factions. It may also be possible to make presentations on behalf of committees to listen to his opinion, at least the ones closest to the issue under discussion. Third, what I'd like to say. In all the parliaments of the world, and I wasn't one, the Committee on Culture is one of the key, because every nation puts its spiritual face first, its cultural face. The Committee on Culture has come up with some of the "Regions" people who, well, didn't want to work there, that's their right. For example, Rudnik, a very nice person to me personally. But I understand that he felt absolutely, well, in a strange so-called nature. Well, she decided to go to another committee. It's very normal. Today, the name of a beautiful Ukrainian artist, a musician, has been mentioned here, and I have also spoken on more than two occasions. I can't understand why Jan Tobacco, once again I say to a great musician to get into a fight, he's going to play the accordion for the bandits and they're going to stop stealing? And the last. Jan Tobacco told the committee that he had not found a common language with the chairman of the committee, so he wanted to move on. Mr. Jan, I've never seen you before. Just listening to your music, because of that, I'm asking you very much: Fight corruption. But don't lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u100	Yes, please, Kamchatny, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. After him, Kozub. Is there a Kamchatny? None. Please, Kozub. Yeah? The thing is, I'm sorry, you have to go out to the rostrum or raise your hand. Or ask them to turn you on. Please, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, this is a question that raises some concern for the session room in all factions. Because mass transitions that have begun, they should probably lead us to the thought of one thing. That the previous quality selection, made by the factions themselves to the committees, was made inequity. I'd like to draw the attention of all of our voters to the fact that the most massive wave of such claims of transitions is coming from the most venerable faction of the Party of the Regions. A very respectable man, my countryman, who is a great specialist, Mr. Rudnik, in the field of the oil and gas complex, I know him as a highly qualified specialist, I feel very sorry for him when he comes to our committee for the second time with such an application, and asks him to be transferred to the profile committee. And really, understanding the need for everything, I support this person and that desire. But within those quotas that were defined, we can't do that. But I want to pay attention to the next one. What we're doing today, covering up that we can't exceed the quotas and we're banning, and we're doing the right thing, and this shaft has to stop, and I want to point out that by now at 12 of the 26 Committees, the quota of the Party of Regions is already exceeded. So the created artificial majority on the committees, and I think about this question, from the point of view of smart logic and politics, we have to go back and correct this imbalance. And these are all quota, bring all quotas to their corresponding number of committee members. And last of all, I'd like to say, answer Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, who asked, and is the question being analyzed, really, of quality? And here I would like to support our colleague Yavorowski. Some reason why the argument that a faction should be moved from one faction to another is not that it is professional but that it is purely there or some motive for what a person is. Excuse me, committee, excuse me. I couldn't find a common language or anything like that. So I think we should stop all of these transitions and look at where the quotas are exceeded. And lastly, taking advantage of the opportunity of my time, I want to say that yesterday was a very significant event and that all voters should know about it. Yesterday's next attack on the opposition, and everyone should know what happened. With the gross violation of the Rules of All Laws, a decree was made yesterday to create a temporary commission of inquiry and a very interesting thing was done. She was sent to our committee, of which I am a member. I can predict what the decision will be. Because the 10 members of our committee, who also exceed the quota, make up the majority on our committee and I have no doubt that yesterday's decision by a majority on our committee will be supported. But you forget about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u102	Please, Alexander Kozub, behind him is the Dennis faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u103	Cosub, Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues! It is not surprising that today the main speakers on this rostrum in view of the issue of personnel transitions are members of the regulatory committee on parliamentary ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council. This suggests that the regulatory committee has created a working environment in which we work together and discuss some issues. In fact, in the first session that was held, not all were able to reveal the moments when we wanted to work on a committee in view of their professional abilities and the fact that the MP Corps has changed. And this is essentially what's happening today with the transition from committee to committee, it's normal. In other words, what my previous colleague said about speeches that are somewhere out of quota, I will say that this is, in fact, something that does not exceed the quotas associated with the Party of Regions or with representatives of the Party of the Regions, and such excesses or quotas are on all committees and are linked to all political forces. So, indeed, today, in a speech by the distinguished Alexander Sergiyovich, who spoke about what really happened to the faction leaders at that time, and the committee of parliamentary ethics, the Rules and the provision of activities to really come up again, to consider substantively the quotas that have come together for today on committees and in the near future, considering this, indeed, to bring this into line with every political force, and that will be fair. And we really need to consider not a statement, let's say every deputy, but consider it by a decision of political factions. Now, with regard to specific wishes and consideration of issues, in fact, today. In fact, I support the People's Deputy Dry, who said that every MP has the right to express his wish to work on a committee or another, and we should have the right to consider it and make the decision that we think is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u104	Please, Ludmila Denisova, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I remind you, you've signed up from the rostrum, from the rostrum. So if you want to give someone a word, give me a signal, and I don't know what you want, do you? Do you want to give someone a word? Please turn the Dennis microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u105	...that the "Work" system worked. And now I give up my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u106	That's what you need to learn, not me. To whom do I give the word? Oh, he's refusing to say a word. Yes, Suhi has already spoken. Landik. I'll just see which one of them is Landik. Yes, Vladimir Ivanovich, please. After him, Bespallian. The Bespallian was already speaking from the faction, and Jaborovsky was speaking. Makienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u107	Vladimir Landik, Party of Regions, Luganshina. Well, on the one hand, I'd like to support those MPs who are going from faction to faction. I've also been elected a national deputy for the first time, and when I come to the committee, you don't always know what you're going to do there. And many, for the first time, have met this legislative work, which is called legislative work, and in the committees it is completely different, and perhaps not all are satisfied. But most of all, I'm worried about the fact that we have experts, high-level experts on our own. And I don't think it's their trouble. I think it's even a matter of faction management, perhaps even the leadership of the Supreme Council. After all, each person needs to be treated individually, each one needs to be spoken to. When we say that not everyone is satisfied with ambition and someone is listening to them? Anybody talk to them? If a person claims to be a committee, a subcommittee, and so on, if no one has spoken to him, he may not ask whether he has knowledge, experience. And that's when we get insults. Here I think it is important that the leaders of the faction, the coalition and even the leadership of the Supreme Council speak to each and every one of us individually, not so many of us. But of course, what's surprising is that the masses, yes, are passing. But I think they'll move even more. Recognizing the work of the committee, seeing others and feeling their ability to work may be in another profession, I think and agree with many of us that we will have transitions and that is painful, that is not how we should feel. I think we need to support it, because some of the secret skills of one of the deputies can be revealed. But what surprises me most is that when we have specialists, experts move on, for example, I have the example of Gerasimük. When a journalist leaves our Freedom of Speech Committee, I think that there are ambitions here that are not allowed and that such a specialist will be sorry to our committee. And I do have a request for our Ukraine to hear it anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u108	Yes, Makienko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. You're passing the word, aren't you? Please, Vitenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Vitenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Vinkina. You know, really, this is my first performance, and I'm certainly asking you to understand the situation. The Committee on Spirituality and Culture, we ourselves understand that we all followed the political party lists as we went to the MPs. Everyone had a commitment to our electorate, and we understand that spirituality and culture are the priorities of each nation’s development. I'm asking for parties, blocks that, I won't say, have responded as members, for example, the Party of “Regions,” two members of the Party of “Regions” have refused to work on the Committee on Spirituality and Culture. Look, you have enough good people who can work with the Committee on Spirituality and Culture, so that there will be no conflict then, what kind of decision is made just because there is a preference for beats or representatives of the Party “Our Ukraine”. I think it should be really, really smart and well understood, it would be smart and well understood by all of our citizens, all of our constituents. Because the Committee on Spirituality and Culture is an extremely important link, really from the committees, the 26 committees that are represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I look forward to your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Literally a few words from his point of view. First. Dear colleagues, you have pointed out that not only did the chairman of the committee of profile speak here, but also the members of this committee, and they have confirmed to you, despite the different political affiliations that the Committee on Rules of Procedure has done exactly as the Rules have done, reviewed each statement in full compliance with the Rules and made a decision. Where standards are broken, he recommends that he make a more faithful decision not to support them. And I would really like to ask all of you not to violate the rules of the Rules of Proportionality. That would be the best. The other one. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to quote 78 articles, part of the seventh Rules, because there's a language here, a objection to the 1159-12 Bill, on the grounds that we're assigning the heads of committees and deputies. The seventh part of the 78th article of the Rules says: “In the event of an appeal by the head of the committee or the corresponding first deputy, the deputy head, the secretary of the committee from office, the right of nomination for the post shall belong to the deputy faction whose quota he was elected to the post. Since all of these quotas were in the Party of Regions, only the Party of the Regions has the right to apply. It can nominate both members of its faction and others, but it is the only one who submits under the Rules. Here, too, the regulatory committee has not violated anything; it has made a perfectly fair decision. I support the wise suggestions of committee leaders to raise the status of committees. But I think it's the first part, it depends on the heads of the committees and they raise it, this status at the height that they can. With regard to the comments on these 12 draft regulations, the most names and most of the proposals from the factions of the Party of Regions, I think it's perfectly clear. Because the faction of the Party of the Regions is almost 50% of the people's deputies, and it's only natural. Now, let's move on, my dear fellows, to the vote of each decree. I'm going to call you the number of the decision and what it means to make it easier for you. But once again, I would like, in fact, to support all the proposals made by the profiling committee, which speaks of a violation of the quota rule. So prepare for the vote, please. In view of our colleague Edward Matthews ’ withdrawal, it may not be necessary to vote on Decree 1159-1. Nobody insists? Because the application has been revoked. Draft decision No. 1152-2 on the election of Burlakov Pavel Mikolaiovich, National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory, state-wide constituency of the Party of Regions, faction of the Party of Regions, member of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. The profile committee is offering to support, especially since there are no quotas. There are no quotas, because we, as it were, allow ourselves to be both a member of the committee and a member of the Special Monitoring Commission. Please vote. Let's bring in another deputy. You'd better. There's a vote coming. Yeah, something. Well, the decision is made, but now they're going to show how many votes are in favour. The system has been suspended for some reason. So, what's with the system? Re-vote? Please, let's try to vote. Relaunch. Yes, I'm re-voting draft decree 1159-2 on Burlakov. Now, they're relaunching. Wait a minute, please. Someone has connected to the server, has installed an additional one. Don't worry, we have a procedure for voting by hand in this case in the Rules. So we can. The Counting Commission will work then. Head of the Counting Commission, just in case, get ready for work. Ready? Yes, please, I'm putting draft regulation 1159-2 to the vote. Vote. [[11:18:16]] For 279 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, there will be a signal now, all of a sudden. Dear colleagues, to your notice that the number of members of the temporary special committee is already increasing, you should rejoice. Because look at the norms, the more members there, the more leadership there will be. So you could add one more and a substitute. Bill, draft order 1159-3 for Darda. To elect a national deputy, this is the Party of Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, relieved of the responsibilities of the Committee on Construction. The committee's proposal to support it, all quotas are in place. Please vote. [[11:19:23]] For 284 Decision taken. Yes, Bill 1159-4 on the election of Rudnik Anatoly Andriyovich to the Committee on Transport and Liaison, releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. The committee suggests no support. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:20:11]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Anatoly Andryovich, I'd like to ask you to work on this committee. That's it, that's it, that's it. The question is solved. You can talk to me later. Yes, please consider the draft decree number 1159-5 on Tobacco Jan, Jacob Pinević, Ukrainian National Deputy from the Party, from the faction of the party of regions asking to appoint him, select him to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, releasing him from the duties of the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. Dear colleagues, I fully support all those wise suggestions that you have made and asked for, have been addressed by our world-renowned cultural worker to withdraw his claim. Jan Pinevich, do you mind if we don't vote on this decision? You really need to be on this committee. We realize that we also have to fight in a crime scene, because it is in culture, but work. Please, Smoker microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u111	Respectable colleagues, respected by all who are present in this Hall. I can say that I really didn't say anything like that, that I didn't find a common language with the chairman of the committee, because he really told the truth that we never saw him. I don't know who came up with this. But I just initially wrote a statement to the Committee on Organized Crime and Corruption. Why? Because, well, you can see a civilian who's there, and everyone knows my principled position, maybe it's more necessary than I'm on a cultural committee right now. Because I am not the only representative of a culture that has not gone to the Committee on Culture, there are other colleagues here who are respected by me who have not gone to these committees either. And I probably think I'm more into crime and corruption than my colleagues who went to other committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u112	Let me finish. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u113	It's not that, it's not the principle. And I don't have any antagonism, but I just don't want to be blameless then guilty that there's nothing wrong with culture. Because we know that it is, in fact, the most painful place to date in our country, to which everyone and the Government pay the least attention, and everyone else. And I'm a person who's used to working with young people and it's going to be very hard for me to explain why I was there and there's nothing I could do, because I know that people who even want to do and can do that just don't let them do that. So, anyway, I'm asking, if there's any chance, I'm asking you to leave me on the Committee on Organized Crime, why? Because I know the problem from the inside, I've traveled 100 zones of this country, and I've been very helpful to the unfortunate people who are innocently convicted. If you want, they'll write letters to the Supreme Council. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u114	Thank you. But Jan Pinovich, believe me, if you'll excuse me for that word, it'll be unsuccessful to work at the Organ Crime Committee, because it's not as real as raising our culture in the next five years. That's why you don't make yourself very happy here. Please, Javorowski, mentioned last name, minute
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u115	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear Jacob Phinehas! I really want to tell you, there's no difference between me, the head of the committee, and you're gone and there can't be. I want to say once again that I deeply respect you as an artist of beauty, I'm in the broad sense of that word, the musician, me. Someone must have just left some smoke. I was told that the argument at the board meeting was that you did not work with me, with the head of the committee. I say again, you've never been on a committee. Come, sit down, I give you my hand and I'm ready to work with you. And the rest is to decide between you and the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Let us find, as always, a wise decision. Should we give the Rules Committee another commission to return to this issue? The commission? I am voting on the proposal to appoint the Committee on Rules to return to draft Decree 1159-5 concerning the National Deputy of Tobacco James Pinewich. Please vote. [[11:26:14]] For-57 The decision is not supported. Then I put to the vote a draft decision that is not supported by the committee, 1159-5 on the election of Tobacco Jacob Pinewich as a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, releasing him from the duties of the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[11:26:54]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Let's welcome Jacob Pinewich to the fact that he will work for the benefit of culture. [[Applause]] I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 1159-6 on the election of Selovov Andrija Borisovich, a national deputy from the Party of the Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, exempting the members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from their duties in matters of freedom of speech and information.” The committee did not support the proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:55]] For 178. Not supported. I think the Committee on Freedom of Speech can be very happy. Yes, the draft decree number 1159-7 on the election of Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrovna, a national deputy from “Our Ukraine” as a member of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Word and Information. The committee does not support this. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:43]] For 155 The decision is not taken. I think professionals should stay where they are. Bill No. 1159-8 on the election of Chertkov Jury Dmitrovic, a national deputy from the Party of the Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs, exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on matters of European integration. The committee supports the rules. Please vote. [[11:29:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Draft order 1159-9. Select Gjellier Evgeny Borisovich, National Deputy of the Party of the Regions, member of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatization. The committee gives a positive opinion. Please vote. [[11:30:05]] For 248 Decision taken. We're not looking at draft decision 1159-1 on Jury because it's 1159-12. That's 1159-10 on the jury. He wanted to, he asked to be appointed to the Committee on Environmental Policy. And 1159-12 is the appointment, no, according to the jury. Please turn on the microphone of Ephraim. Now, now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u117	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, in relation to the Jury, has decided: since Deputy Kovalevska has taken her place, she has suspended her application for a transition, there is a quota. Therefore, it is possible to decide, according to the quota, that this will not be a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u118	Baby, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Oleg Lazko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Sergiyovich, if we are already on the regulatory committee, let us also consider the jury. The Regulatory Committee has not considered this issue. Therefore, it is suggested that we do not consider the matter until a decision has been taken by the regulatory committee. Is the jury better than the Smoker or someone else? All MPs are the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to consider this, Alexander Sergiyovich, and we will vote on this issue on Tuesday, and there will be no problems. I would like to consider and conclude that they have changed. Wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u121	I repeat. We don't take anything away, we don't choose anything. We ask the Regulatory Committee to give us a final conclusion and we're on Tuesday. You'll do it today, we're voting today. Tomorrow, we'll vote. Please don't encourage me to break the Rules. This is not the question of where we should break the spear. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, gather the committee today and we will consider it today. Yes, we're looking at the draft decree number 1159-11 on appointments, the election of colleagues as committee heads, the first deputies and deputies of committee heads. I've already quoted you as saying that this is really the quota of the Party of the Regions. So I'm going to let you know what this is all about. Select McKeenko Volodymyr Vladimirovich as head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, freeing him from the duties of deputy head. Kostusev Aleksija Aleksioyovich is elected deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. Zaza Aleksandra Viktorovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, relieved of the duties of deputy chairman of the committee. Korža Pavel Petrovich is the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and Lukjanova Vjacheslav Valentinović, Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. I'd like to support Bill 1159-11. Vote. [[11:34:38]] For 243 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Let us welcome both committee leaders and committee members who have made the transitions and wish for fruitful work. The signal will soon appear because the system is still rebooting. Here we go to the project "On Government Day" in December 2006, registration number 1148. [[with the agenda “To implement the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons in charge, the ranks of internal affairs bodies and some others”]] [[Project of the People's Deputy of Moses]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! On February 23rd of this year, Parliamentary hearings were held in the session hall, with the agenda “On the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons in charge, the composition of internal affairs bodies and some others”. That same day, February 23, was approved by the Supreme Council’s decision to recommend the results of parliamentary hearings. And the second paragraph of the Supreme Council's decree of February 23 of this year was scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year for the Cabinet of Ministers to inform the Supreme Council of the implementation of recommendations approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! The parliamentary review committee proposes to hold the government's Day on December 12th, but taking into account your plans for the government's days, parliamentary hearings. This date could be changed to what you're going to say. Thank you for your attention, and please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please, please, sit down. It was also a report from the committee, including. Dear colleagues, let's talk about how we're going to do this: we're going to vote separately, or maybe we're going to hear suggestions, as it's a matter of parliamentary hearings, and then, and then. And this is government day, government day, this is government day. Let's see. The day of the government is gone. Parliamentary. Yes, on Government Day, does anyone want to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Yes, please. The factions accounted for three. Yes, please register independently of factional property. There's another recording going on. Yeah, eight. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'll take 15 minutes. Is there any objection? No, there is. Eight times 30 to 24. Oh, again? Now, let me take a look. He's done it again. Let's, as it were, ask everyone to come forward, but save some time. Please, Mother, the faction of our Ukraine. Chernobyl is getting ready. Nonechaku, please pass on the word. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u124	Mikola Onischuk, faction of our Ukraine, Party of industrialists, entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, as soon as we heard the legislative initiative to hold the Government's Day on an important subject beyond any doubt, which is intended to ensure the exercise of a supervisory function by Parliament. By the way, it's the only project we're considering today with regard to the government's day. The next order of business for the Parliament will be the 7 decrees for parliamentary hearings. That's exactly what I'd like to make some warnings about. Dear colleagues, for those who have already worked in Parliament, it is obvious that, unfortunately, due to the fact that too many issues we are trying to consider in the session room in the form of parliamentary hearings, the importance of such important acts of parliamentary response is being devalued to some extent as decisions of Parliament that are taken as a result of appropriate parliamentary hearings. Therefore, our faction appeals to all our colleagues, including the Party of Regions and others, to stop considering draft regulations on the appointment of parliamentary hearings before making appropriate changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council. What is it? In particular, it is about establishing that parliamentary hearings are held in two forms: plenary parliamentary hearings and committee parliamentary hearings. And in particular, to introduce a rule that plenary hearings cannot be held in the Supreme Council session hall unless they are preceded by hearings on the relevant committee of profile. And it is only when the efforts of a committee of profile, including in terms of control functions, are insufficient as a result of the decisions taken to resolve a particular social problem that Parliament decides to hold plenary parliamentary hearings. Therefore, unfortunately, the faction will not be able to support today any of the following parliamentary agenda initiatives for holding parliamentary hearings without changing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we would ask those authors of these bills not to take this as a personal attitude, but as an effort to raise the weight and influence of parliamentary hearings on the implementation of state policy, particularly with a view to the proper exercise by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the functions of parliamentary control. As far as Government Day is concerned, as I said, it's the only offer for today. And please support her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u125	Please, Taras Blackwall, faction of the Regional Party. Bondarchuk, socialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm probably not even going to use three minutes completely, because in this case, we have a perfectly consistent position, and we're sitting in factions and factions today, looking at the list of issues that are proposed for parliamentary hearings, and we've come to the conclusion that an absolute majority of them are needed, necessary, correct and appropriate. But we: first, we are overloading completely with all the topics that need to be considered, we are loading our working weeks so that there is already a union of parliamentary hearings, as a result of which there is no normal consideration of them, these issues, very serious and painful issues; and second, when these issues have not actually passed the committees, we see in fact the distortion of such a form of parliamentary work, an important form of parliamentary hearing. For no one is a secret, when both at the bottom of the government and at the bottom of the parliamentary hearings come only a few national deputies, and this empty hall, or a hall where there are representatives of the public, and there are no ones who have to make the main decisions afterwards with this, it discredits both the Supreme Council and discredits the issues themselves. Therefore, we today propose not to vote in favour of the appointment of parliamentary hearings, to make sure that from all the points that have been put forward, by giving appropriate protocol instructions to committees, committee hearings, and to present information on the matter on the basis of them in the Supreme Council Hall. And on the basis of committee hearings after that, and preferably extended committee hearings, when invited to those hearings by the appropriate representatives, and by the appropriate bodies, and by the structures of the public organizations, to make the right decisions, and after that, only when those decisions show that there can be a result only in full, full parliamentary hearings, to hold them. Then we will get rid of the distortion of this form of parliamentary work and we will be able to resume parliamentary hearings as a very serious and important tool in our work. So once again, the Party of Regions is proposing to stop the parliamentary hearings and return to them after a normal and effective committee hearing system has been put in place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, John Bondarchuk, the Socialist faction. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I support the suggestions made by my colleagues, Onischuk and Crnovola, regarding the relevance of the consideration of parliamentary hearings, especially since we have already accepted, more faithfully, a principle agreement on this issue at the Conciliation Council on Monday. I just want us to ask today the question of hearing from just one problem: this is Project 2038, about preparing Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization. Because this is a very important question. With regard to the draft ruling on the government’s day, he needs to be supported. Because I'm representing Winnitzkin, where there's a historically unresolved problem of housing for military personnel is the capital of today's air force. We have an active organization of homeless officers. Unfortunately, there are several thousand people who have stood for years and have no prospect. Thus, perhaps even earlier, it would be wise to hold these hearings. The government’s day on this subject, so that when we consider the draft budget, the 2007 State budget, we will have to consider the urgent need to increase the cost of implementing the housing problem of former military personnel, of present - day military personnel, and to remove this problem altogether, either from the agenda or to remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u129	Mikola Sadowa, please, follow him, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u130	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadowy, Kirovogrady. Socialists support the proposal to review the government in December 2006 on a day-by-day basis on the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations, on housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, primary and military personnel, and on the composition of internal affairs bodies and some others. I support my colleagues' suggestion that all the other issues that were to be raised on Government Day should be transferred to the committee. That's the same thing we're going to raise the quality of committee work and the authority of committees, and we know very well that the committees are making more work, less politics, and the effectiveness of this is going to be much better. But as far as the question is concerned, it is specific, it applies to a large number of people, and it also applies to the future. Therefore, the Socialists support this draft decision and will vote in favour. We need to prepare ourselves sufficiently for this meeting, so that there are different ranks of military personnel, and those who are serving, and those who have already retired, to engage, of course, the general public in order for the analysis to be carried out, carried out, or not carried out, the recommendations of previous parliamentary hearings to be delivered in a high-quality manner. I can argue that this is a topical topic in the case of the city of Kirovgrad or the region of Kirovograd, because it is also in other regions. For example, there is a former military part of Kirovograd-25 under the city of Kirovograd. This is the housing of 14 four - story buildings and seven one - story buildings. No matter what the apartment is, a prepared apartment with a three - story school, with a two - story kindergarten, with a two - story cultural building is set free for today. We have in the city of Kirovograd a large number of military personnel who do not have this residence. This is an extremely pressing problem that can be solved quite simply and improved. We have quite a lot of these moments in Ukraine. And to consider this decision, the socialists will support and vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u131	Yes, Stepan Bulba, please. After him, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists, head of the Social Protection Committee, members of their families, and military pensioners. Of course, I join my colleague's opinion, which I said earlier about supporting the Government's Day on the issue of housing problems for military personnel in the social protection of this category of Ukrainian citizens. Why? Because this problem, of course, can be discussed, we do it at the committee level. But the solution must be made at the level of the State. In addition to the fact that there is a bill on the reduction of the Armed Forces, a further reduction of the Armed Forces, which is scheduled to reduce the Armed Forces by 78,000 by 2011, including 49,000 military personnel, is another tens, tens of thousands of people who do not have housing or who have housing that does not meet the normal living conditions. This is the pitiful state of military towns, which are still in the forests at the level of the former Soviet Union, the former Soviet Army, and now the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and even in large cities. Let's say Poltava has an avionics. Practically utility networks there have been so busy, no one's been repairing them since the 40's last century. And of course, the problems of these people, the people who live there, have to be solved. And there are ways to solve them. For example, by means of freed areas under arsenals, former military facilities can largely use the cost of selling, renting, and solving military problems. Therefore, it is very important that we plan, prepare and spend Government Day in December 2006 with the agenda on the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations on the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, members of the primary and the regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others. I ask to vote in favour of Bill 1148. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u133	Please, Sergey Matvienkov. From where? No, it's not. Yes. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please, Sas Sergey for reasons of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u134	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, it is indeed planned to consider the vital issue of housing for military personnel today. Here some colleagues, speaking from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, stressed that there was a lack of a sufficient legal basis for considering the matter, particularly on committees. I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the following: that the question of holding parliamentary hearings is fully regulated by Chapter 38 of the Supreme Council Rules, which is called “The conduct of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. With regard to the organization of parliamentary hearings on committees, committee work is not regulated by the Rules or is not fully regulated by the Rules. For this there is a special law “On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, which was adopted in February 2006. Someone may not have been able to read, but there's article 29, which says "hearing on committees," and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u135	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I also remind you that Sergey Volodymyrovich, the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee, gave a clear answer to those remarks that the issues were not settled. Dear colleagues! I looked at what days of government we've appointed with you, we've got for October, for November, and for January 2007, which is exactly no December, and I think let's really support the proposal to hear on the day of the government the information about the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel and others, as it were, persons who have a bearing on law enforcement. Bill number 1148, please. Vote. [[11:55:20]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Pay attention! Dear colleagues! We have about 10 draft decrees on parliamentary hearings. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that all these parliamentary hearings would be offered first on the committees. After the committee hearings at the parliamentary level have decided that the subject goes beyond these hearings, which should be given even more attention to these hearings, the committee will come up with a proposal to hold them at the level of the entire Parliament. So if it was your will and there's no objection, I would now call the projects a set about what? So that we can vote on the proposal to assign committees to hold parliamentary hearings on committees. Is there no objection? Please, Dry, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I fully support the view that committees should conduct committee hearings by performing their control function, of course. But I ask from this list to exclude 1148 and the issue of housing and social security guarantees for military personnel to vote and prepare for December 2006. There's nothing to do with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u137	Excuse me, what bill? 1148 has already received 244 votes – the government's Day. It's about the parliamentary, player, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u138	Adam Ivanovich, regarding Bill 1181. I ask before the vote that everyone know that, in July of this year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted a resolution. And I appealed to all parliaments to the Council of Europe, of course, to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue, which was defined in 1181, so that we would not have a conflict. The President of the Supreme Council has already written there what will be held in November. They wish to consider one day and one month in all parliaments, and I ask that this be taken into account when putting the question “outside” to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u139	Yes, please, Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Leonid Ivanovich, I have also made a decree on parliamentary hearings of a systemic nature. And it is these parliamentary hearings that include the problems of violence, health problems, and many different social problems and social guarantees that can only be solved in the form of more parliamentary hearings of legislative and executive authorities and public organizations. I propose that these two parliamentary hearings be brought together and that a joint meeting be held with a common system name and plus that these problems be included. Here, by the way, health problems, cardiovascular diseases, disability and mortality may also occur. Let's make this general decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u141	Thank you. Any other authors of the initiative? Then, fellow Members, let's move forward in such a way that, in fact, Bill 1181 on Parliamentary Hearings on the occasion of an International Day against Violence against Women and Project 1228 on Levels of Rights and Equal Opportunities in Ukraine, Realities and Perspectives, we will bring together two issues, as it were, they carry a women's direction and we will conduct really parliamentary hearings. The truth is offered here on Friday, November 24. But in view of the fact that this is the only day for all of Europe, they will have to be held alone. Please, Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u142	We have also considered this detail and there is such a proposal by the Committee that the parliamentary hearings will be held on 21 November at 12 p.m. and will then be aligned with all possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u143	Well, then, dear colleagues, with the exact date that it's not all over Europe on 24th, you can see, it's a technical error, it's 21 November. I put to the vote draft decrees for the holding of parliamentary hearings 1181, 1228 to unite, and the names, as it were, have been mentioned. Please vote. Vote. [[12:01:17]] For-195 Dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone again. Dear colleagues, don't you understand? I'll say it again. The rest of the parliamentary hearings, the rest of the parliamentary hearings, I'll read what we'll do on the committees. And here, in view of the decision of the Council of Europe that we made our commitments, these decisions on women's issues, violence against them and so on are proposed in Parliament on November 21st. I'm going to vote again. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Please vote. [[12:02:21]] For 355 We went back to the vote. I now put to the vote the parliamentary hearings on November 21st in Parliament, decrees 1181 and 1228, on women's issues. Please vote. [[12:02:55]] For 378 Thank you, it's a decision. Now I'm reading. Now, now, there's going to be a break, we're voting on it, we're voting on it. Please, there's Shevchenko Andry asking. Please turn on the microphone to clarify.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we have heard the call to consider at parliamentary hearings only a matter of such a global national nature. That's why we worked with the author of the draft resolution with Les Stepanovich Tanyuk and replaced the decision to hold parliamentary hearings with the theme "Reforming State and Municipal Media". This decision was to be made. She's registered. It is unanimously supported by all members of the committee. I'm sure the subject will create a great social resonance, a colossal attention to mass media. We therefore propose to hold a hearing on December 6 on the theme “Reforming State and municipal media”. It's a good tradition for the Supreme Council to devote every year to listening to one of the media themes. All factions supported the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, well, there's an offer like this, but let's do it on the committee first. Then I will no doubt decide what it deserves, as it were, and generally. Well, believe the practice, the colleagues who were here at these hearings see that we're a little bit flattened if we don't prepare them like that through committees and so on. But I'm your proposal, I'll put it to a vote. Please, again, Chevchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u146	The proposal is absolutely welcome, which is why it is already planned to hold a joint committee meeting on “Parliamentary media”. For hearing in the session hall, we bring out a broader theme: “Reforming public and municipal media in general”. We hold hearings on a committee on a narrow subject and bring a broad theme to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u147	Yeah, well, I'm voting on proposal 1203 of the Parliamentary Hearing Order "Reforming State and Public Media" on December 6th to hold it. Tanyuk's bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:05:32]] For a hundred and It's about sound. Dear colleagues, it's okay to keep a button, but the point is that you and I haven't defined the status of non-factional. I mean, those, I remind you, despite the exclusion of the factions from the factions, so far they remain attributed, if you will, to the factions they were in, until you and I make final changes to the Rules on what are non-fractional. And that's where the system went down. Okay. That's different. No decision taken. In this way, I am voting for Bills 2038 on the state of preparations for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, 1203 on the Reform of State and Municipal Media, 2005 on the problems of the disability and mortality of the population of Ukraine from cardiovascular diseases, 2004 on the problems of public funding and ways to improve its effectiveness in the health system of Ukraine, to be held in committees. Please vote. [[12:07:13]] For 354 It's been decided. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u148	Let's get back to work. Please invite the deputies to the hall. It's being announced for consideration -- draft decrees for the selection of Kirovogradski, Poltavski and Chernigov city heads. Reported to the head of the State Building Committee, Natalia Vladislavna Bogesheva. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly referred to the problem of assigning out-of-court elections to the city’s heads. In the preceding review, the decision was not taken because of the uncertainty of the scope and sources of funding for these elections. The committee carried out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and today, the Supreme Council is reviewing the draft decrees on the appointment of successive elections of the Poltava and Chernigov City Heads, as well as on the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the reasons provided by law regarding the appointment of these elections have been upheld. In all three cases, the authority of the city’s heads has been suspended on a time-by - time basis, in view of their becoming national deputies. With regard to the financial security issue of these elections, the committee received a response from the Ministry of Finance, which suggests that at this time the remaining unused funds foreseen by the 2006 State Budget for the local elections amount to over 33 million dollars. According to the Central Electoral Commission, which is confirmed once again by the Ministry of Finance, it takes more than 1 million dollars to hold the election of city heads in a row, and about 20,000 dollars to hold the election. Thus, the necessary funds for these elections are available. In this regard, the committee is requesting support for the draft decrees for the appointment of out-of-court elections of city heads in Kirovgrad, Poltava, and Chernig on November 26, 2006. Draft Decree 2156 on the election of the city of Kyrovgrad, draft Decree 2157 on the election of the city head and draft Decree 2158 on the election of the city head.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u150	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes. Please, Yaduha.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u151	Basil Yaduh, Party of Regions, city of Hmelnick. Please tell me if you've studied the question and what your personal opinion, hopefully the principle, is that the people who were elected by the city heads and who made the statement of authority knew in advance that they would go through the deputies of the Supreme Council, because they were on the lists and we know where they were, in this way, causing a huge damage to the budget in my view. As you appreciate further action and in the perspective of attitudes toward such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u152	The point is that the law does not provide for the allocation of candidates at the same time in several elections. So everyone had the right to take any position. Just in time to go and make the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u153	Pierre.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u154	Alexander Aleksanderovich, please pass the word to Ljasko's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u155	Please. But it will be included. Don't break it. Sit down. He'll be in his seat right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u156	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, first of all, I address you. Make an announcement, invite MPs into the hall, because we're considering important issues, and there's actually no people. This is the first time. One hundred men in the room and a decision takes at least 226. That's the first thing I wanted to ask. It's different. I would like to urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of the Supreme Council Order on the appointment of these elections, because cities, major cities in Ukraine: The Chernigus, Kirovograd, Poltava, are without city heads. There are responsibilities that solve their temporary problems. Besides, I'd like to go to the Supreme Council for guidance on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u157	I answer your question first, for there was no further question, but a presentation. So, what I'm saying is, I announced that the deputies would come into the hall, but you weren't in the hall -- you didn't hear it. That's the first one. And secondly, look closely: 421 deputies have been registered in the hall. Well, you've made a mistake, obviously. Yeah, right. So please. Please, Natalia Vladislavna, what will you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u158	What should I answer? The committee is also asking to determine. Moreover, on July 25 we considered this project, and it was postponed, so today it is necessary to accept it. Moreover, the deadline for their election was long overdue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u159	Yes, please, Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u160	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter, I have a question for you, but it just so happens that Oleg Lazko literally just made an introduction and was interrupted. Oleg, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u161	. Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like to continue with you. Today, we all had the opportunity to observe a former MP, Rudzikowski Mikola, running around the hall and not knowing what he was talking about with the deputies. I know exactly what I'm talking about. Please tell me, we already had one case when the deputy of the Luhansk City Council took part and beat the deputies here. Now we have a former MP, Rudzkowski, walking around the hall. What kind of security do we have in the Supreme Council? Maybe someone will bring some vending machines. We have to put the order into this. Why do outsiders run in the hall? Why is the secretary of defense sitting in his seat, and the secretary of communications running on hospital papers in the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u162	I'm asking you, I might not answer your question because you're not asking the question. There are now reports on the conduct, the decision to hold the election of the city heads. And as for your question, I want to say that I'm going to answer it separately. If he was not running, indeed, and since you know what he was talking about, you might immediately say so. You've done this before. So I'm going to give it to you separately because it's not a topic. Please, Scybinetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u163	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u164	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, this is, indeed, a serious question and the Supreme Council should not embarrass itself but simply make a decision. The only ones we have are fears. There is concern that where there are majority representatives, the mayors count, the same Rudekovsky, the same Kukoba, so that these cities do not end up without mayors. And most will vote, not out of the Constitution, but out of their own corporate interests. Whatever it is, I've got a question for you. I'm talking to the chairman. I mean, I'm sorry, to the reporter: can we still put this to the vote with a package? Or one decision to make, to include aside from the city, let's say, Poltava or Kirovograd, Chernigs, and with one decision to vote three cities. Just to rule out the possibility of speculating on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u166	I think there's no objection, but it's up to the Supreme Council to make a decision. Let's vote with a bag.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u167	Natalia Vladislavna, he's the one who came to me. I support such an offer. If you do not object, let us unite three of these proposals in one decision. Is there no objection? Let us vote for the union of the three. There's a vote coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a procedure. The package. For a batch vote. [[12:48:28]] For 399 This is a series of ballots, since it is not possible to unite in a single decree, lawyers deny it. So we're going to vote three decrees together. Please sit down as reporter for Natalia Vladislavna. Are we going to discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, if anyone wants to make a statement from the faction, sign up for the faction. Yes, thank you. Now from the MPs, if anyone wants to sign up. The factions included Sweden, Miroshnichenko, and Bondarczuk, and now, if they are wanted by the deputies, they are also listed separately. Although I wouldn't advise you to speak, you have to make a decision. Yeah, it's 10 minutes. Please, who's speaking from the faction? The Swede passes the can. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u168	National Deputy Laszko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support the Supreme Council's decision on the election of the city's heads of Kirovgrad, Chernigov and Poltava, because cities cannot be without leaders and more, in the autumn and winter season that is coming. There are some problems in the fact that the former heads of these cities try to hold on to their responsibilities, which resolve temporary issues. In particular, in Montenegro, I would like to report that in the 2006 parliamentary elections in Chernigov, Block Timoshenko took 33 percent of the vote, the Party of Regions took 32 percent of the vote, and the Socialist Party in Chernigov took 11 percent of the vote. So people support the Party of Regions, Timoshenko’s bloc in its vast majority, and the city continues to be ruled by the socialist mayor. This is not a natural situation that does not reflect the real moods of the people of Chernigov. Therefore, it should be corrected by an election. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues from the Party of Regions. We have the benefit of holding these elections. In an honest competition, we will find out who the mayor will be — either yours or ours. But not a person who does not reflect the attitude of the vast majority of the city’s inhabitants. The same is true of the cities of Poltava and Kirovograd. Thank you for your support, and please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u169	Thank you for the aggrieved at the same time. I would like to point out that the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko also supported such authority there, you remember. Right? And you're especially responsible for this. Miroshnichenko, please, from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u170	Dear colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to talk to my colleagues right now, and to the radio audience, and to the TV viewers who are watching the work of the Supreme Council. I would like to state that the Party of Regions in matters related to the rule of law with the activity of authority as such has never been guided by its narrow party interests. And now the appeal of my colleague, Mr. Laishka, come on, it's convenient for us, it must be misrepresenting those motivations that will be guided by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Today we were told quite correctly that cities were left without mayors, and accordingly a vacuum of power took place, and this vacuum of power was filled today by people who were not authorized under Ukrainian legislation to exercise similar powers, like the mayors of cities. And surely, we are simply obliged to appoint and hold elections, not because one of us is comfortable with them, but because that is what both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine require of us. I'm also joining the position of virtually all speakers that we need to appoint elections, we need to properly conduct them, demonstrate a high culture of political competitions. I highlight, not the fight, but the competitions, the competition programs, the teams that will claim power in a city or another and thus choose, first and foremost, the interests of citizens, city dwellers, the better city leader. So by risking my performance, I'm joining in and probably here is the general position of our audio faction, the position of support for the proposed draft regulation, and on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, I can testify that we have always consistently defended and upheld the legality and consistency of the actions to fill power in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u171	Thank you, thank you. This is John Bondarchuk of the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I, the only thing I have is a request that we stop squeezing water in our feet. Because it's a very clear question, and let's not turn the parliamentary rostrum into a place where we're going to polish our controversial craftsmanship. We have a lot of questions about where this can be done, and now the committee has worked very clearly on this issue, made a concrete proposal. Let's support her. Let's make an election. And I'd just like to say to a colleague who's stood up for two in front of me, that there are different choices, the choices of city, rural, village heads, and the councils of the right kind, and they are held in different ways. Therefore, there is no need to mix it all together, colleague Lazko, study the Law “On Elections of Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban Heads” and there it is written. Thank you. Let's get to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u173	Thank you. It's not the first proposal ever made, because the first speaker talked about the same thing, so I understand that no one else wants to speak, right? Let's vote a risk under discussion, shall we? At the end of the discussion, please. Raise the roar, vote. [[12:55:54]] For 394 394 deputies believe that the discussion should be stopped, so I am voting for Decrees 2156, 2157, 2158 on the appointment of second-hand elections in Kirovograd, Poltava and Chernig. Voting, please. [[12:56:26]] For 408 Decision taken. You're insisting on reptiles, but he praised you, didn't he? Please give him a moment's notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u174	Dear colleague, the head of the committee, thank you, but I know the laws, I'd like to say what our concern is. The problem is that the man went to the elections the mayor of Chernigova promised people to take care of their well-being as soon as he became mayor here he fled to the MPs and threw himself into a permissive city and today he is trying to escape responsibility for it. Black people can't cheat on socialists or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u175	You'd better talk about Kirovograd. The right approach, the right proposals, but the man was appointed minister, it was known for the beginning of Parliament's work, so he made that decision. I'm, for example, a sidekick, chosen, working. But that's what happened, let's solve the question, the Constitution provides for how to decide. Next, if necessary, let us make provision in the Electoral Law that one should travel somewhere else. But once again, it is a violation of human rights. So let's face it, we've made up our minds. Thank you. Klukkowski, representative of the President, for the proposal, please, from the seat, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u176	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich! I'm also a representative of the President, and I'm also a national deputy of Ukraine, so tell me that after the national MPs of Ukraine somehow I don't really understand that, I was written there. But what I'm going to say is, it's more of a protocol thing. I'm asking you to pay attention to two things. We have taken a very long time to make this decision, and the law that allows the secretary to carry out the duties of the city’s head for only 130 days has actually been violated. So perhaps we should go back to that question. And maybe it's the authority to hand over to the Central Electoral Commission, which does not have parliamentary vacations and which can take these things quickly. And secondly, I would like to point out that there is already a certain case when the previous decision of the Supreme Council or the appointment of out-of-court rural head elections has not been published for a long time by the Voice of Ukraine. And so you just have to take steps to get those decisions published immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u177	We're tasking the Voice of Ukraine with the immediate publication of the rulings. This will be done, literally, in the next issue. Don't doubt it. A draft Decision on information from the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the state of criminal investigation concerning the murder of journalist H. Gongade reports. [[project C.E. I. Bokogo received 12.09.2006]] This is Deputy Sanchenko reporting. In fact, the question is very simple and clear. This is about listening to this information tomorrow. Is there a need to discuss this very procedural issue? None. Then I put to the vote this draft decree on his approval. Please. [[13:00:02]] For 394 Decision taken. Document number 2042, 2042-1. A draft registration number 1140 on the draft decree for the creation of a temporary investigation committee of the Supreme Council on the obstacles to the professional activities of WST journalists by the Ukrainian National Deputies from the Party of the Regions, which took place on 12 July 2006 near the House of the Supreme Council, is under consideration. The Mikoli Tomenka project was given at the right time. Is there a need to discuss the matter? Or let's just create this commission. Then I put the draft ruling to the vote, because Mikola Volodymyrovich doesn't deny it either. Yeah? A vote is under way for this project, please. [[13:01:03]] For 305 Decision taken. Draft decrees 2097 and 2098 on the appointment of individual village heads are under consideration. Natalia Vladislavna, on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u178	Dear Head, dear colleagues, we have just voted on the decision to appoint out-of-order elections of city heads. For exactly the same reason, the Committee refers to the Supreme Council for the appointment of the successive election of David’s village head of the Lviv Region, the draft of Decree 2097. There was a suspension of authority in connection with a personal claim. The Maquis village head of the district of Cherkas region, the draft of Decree 2090 in connection with death. The election is also scheduled for November 26, 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u179	Please, please. The document has been prepared. There may be no point in discussing these documents. It is absolutely our constitutional, constitutional duty, which must be fulfilled now. And there's also a proposal in a package of two, both of which are to vote. No objections? Can I put it to a vote? Then I put two decrees in the package: 2097 and 2098 on the appointment of individual village heads. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:03:09]] For 398 Thank you. Please sit down. Decision taken. 402, 398 deputies voted in favour. With regard to our decree 1140 on the interim commission of inquiry, by agreement both the Party of the Regions and the author of the draft decree – Mikli Tomenka, we will not write: “by the National Deputies of Ukraine from the Party of the Regions”, an editorial clarification, and “by Deputy Kalashnikov”. Because it's totally his fault. So this is an editorial clarification that we're going to make in the draft itself, in the document, in the regulation. You don't mind, do you? We have been commissioned by our Legal Authority to provide such clarification. There's a draft regulation on the establishment of an annual education award, she'll report on it. [[Samuel Project]] If I may, rather, because I think everyone agrees to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I'm brief if Alexander Alexandrovich asks. We already have experience. We have approved with you the prizes for young people for the development of local self-government and parliamentaryism, and for the third year in a row, we are handing out these letters, please forgive the premiums, to young deputies of rural, rural, district councils and so on. And those who really contribute to the development of self-government and parliamentaryism. We also suggest, you know, that today, especially the rural area, especially the town-type village, the areas, really, if you say so, all your life around the school and around the teacher. And thanks to this self-loyal work of the teacher, so far, in fact, in the village we've got our young people stalled and passed on to the heritage of both our knowledge and our cultural acquisitions, and so forth. Of course, we need to be honest about what, unfortunately, the state, although it seems that we are doing a lot in this session hall, but unfortunately, the state owes it to teachers. She owed on very big issues, and the teacher can't reveal herself, really, as a creator, as a creator of children's souls, as a person who inherits everything that is in the history of our state. So the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education discussed the question of whether we should make a decision with you, if you will, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's annual Teachers Award. These are the bonuses we propose to approve in size 30. It's going to be represented by all the regions, and somewhere that science is going to be represented, it's going to be something else. That's the prize we're offering to make it 20,000 dollars. It's a small amount of money, and for a teacher, especially a rural teacher, it's really just a reward. It's for the fundraiser, Alexander Alexanderovich, because this has to be predicted when you look at the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's going to cost, let's multiply this, it's going to be 600,000 dollars. And I would like to ask all the colleagues, all the Ukrainian national deputies, to really support our determination to make a positive decision and to approve the position that has also been given to you to establish an annual prize for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions of Ukraine. I know because there was a working group, and I represented the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the working group and the Deputy Minister of Finance, that they also agree. It's our humble beauty that you'll be able to mark the teacher. And it would be very good if we took this decision in general, and it would be, you know, a kind of gift to our educators for Teacher's Day, which will be early in October of the month. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u181	Is there a question for Catherine of Simeon? It is, isn't it? Please sign up for five minutes. Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u182	Kirichenko, faction of the regions of Ukraine. That's my question. In fact, that proposal is very appropriate and should be clearly accepted, but I would like to talk about the principle of distribution. Why this distribution? We have 27 actors, yes, if we take the areas and the city of Sevastopol as an individual entity. 27 entities. One bonus per subject, if you take and go from that side. I don't know why the city of Kiev is here in specials if we're talking about rural teachers, if we're talking about, like, helping the village? And why the town of Sevastopol has two prizes. I mean, I don't understand the very meaning of the approach to distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u183	Dear colleague, you have an outdated draft order. We've reviewed it, and we've already given you a replacement of the previous one, where we've actually removed these warnings that you're talking about. That is why the 27 prizes go to the regions. In addition, we have the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, several social organizations. We will also consider these three prizes, which will no longer concern the regions. I mean, the members of the Committee, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have made the same proposals as you have, and we have removed all these issues, and I think it will be absolutely right. Indeed, Sevastopol is smaller than some regional centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u184	Thank you. Your answer is convincing. Please, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u185	I have a question. Dear reporter, don't you think that the Supreme Council is not the organ that can issue prizes? In principle, it's beautiful, but the Supreme Council has to solve a completely different question -- the material provision of rural teachers and all teachers. We also have to ensure that through the budget, the teacher gets a salary not below the average wage in industry. And today, 500-600 bracelets without an apartment, without utilities, without anything, and you're spending on one area, you're going to bring a storm to the teachers and nothing more. Let us take care of the teacher as a whole, not of a prominent champion of an area in which I do not believe.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u186	Thank you. That's exactly what the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working on. I think your faction is also working on all the problems you've raised. But I want to tell you, I've analyzed how many national awards have been won, it's the moral of all incentives -- teachers. You know, it's embarrassing. It's just embarrassing. And that's why I don't know if it's beautiful or not, but I've done some work on the past committee. It's not just beautiful, it protects a person. It is indeed a man who is proud of both the state and our Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has noticed its modest work and yet has given it to this humble man. I think it's as important for every person as it is for you and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u187	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovitch realizes that for 600 dollars the storm won't be in the area, and he's talking about admitting a person to give her a letter and something else before that letter. Please, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u188	Kamchatny, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”, the son of a teacher. Please give the floor to the Turkish deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u190	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You know, really, teachers working in Ukraine probably need to give everyone a bonus, and we're not going to close the problems they have. Of course, it's not a bad thing to give a bonus. I think our faction will support the question in another. I'm going to the government right now, I'm going to the faction of the majority. I want you, my dear fellows, not to conclude that there is simply a desire to buy 30 bonuses from the problems facing the teacher today. Both rural and urban. And I want to ask the reporter. Nevertheless, aside from the prize, it seems to me that first of all, we really need to solve the fundamental problem of teachers. And I think that your committee, and especially the government that promised a lot of things, should be in the budget that we're about to approve, predict and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u192	No doubt the government and most of the government you're talking about, I think your support will do everything possible to make the indicators in the education and science funding budget much better. As for redemption. We should not say such words, for each of us in this room and outside this hall will never be able to redeem ourselves for the seed sown in our minds and in our souls by our teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u193	Thank you. Have a seat, please. She said so well that we might not discuss it, huh? May I vote? Then I'm putting to the vote the draft decree you're given, number 2007. Submitted in replacement of the above-mentioned document. Please make up your mind. [[13:14:38]] For 398 Decision taken. No one voted against it. This is for the media. I want to talk about that detail. I apologize to you, honourable Members, we voted in favour of creating a temporary commission on contempt of journalists by one MP -- and not only did we take into account one question that was on the committee, and Mikola Volodymyrovich reminded of it, we voted to change the editorial title of the ruling, and two others, where the committee proposes to select the head of the Kurpil Stepan Volodymyrovich and determine the two months of activity of this decision, did not take account of it. So I'd like to ask: let's vote on this 1140 amendment, once again with these amendments. This is a committee proposal led by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Please. The papers on your hands, not out of words, you've got it on your hands. Read it, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'll bet you a vote. Please. [[13:15:55]] For 336 Decision taken. Thank you. That's actually a clarification based on the committee's proposal. A draft law on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine on the participation of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in the security of the Special Court in the Republic of Sierra Leone is under consideration. Reported by Defence Minister Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please. If anyone wants to sign up for the factions on this subject, sign up. It's clear, though. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u194	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The president brought it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u195	Anatoly Stepanovich, one second, now I'm here to stop beating on you. Now, from the deputies who would like to make another statement, please sign in. A total of 19 people enrolled. But since it's a clear question, let's take six minutes to talk, yeah. Because there's 5 if 2 comes out. No objections? Since other proposals are not made, we consider the Rules to be acceptable. Anatoly Semenovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u196	I'm going to talk very briefly about this bill, which was introduced by the President and which I'm asking for his support. We now have a peacekeeping contingent in Liberia since 2004, a separate helicopter task force that has been carrying out important tasks for the United Nations. In the neighbouring State of Sierra Leone, where our peacekeeping contingent had previously worked, there was a need for the United Nations to provide for such a need, transportation, and security arrangements for a special court operating there. Since the aviation component in Liberia is only Ukrainian, there are no other helicopters. She addressed us, as the United Nations State, and asked the President of the Supreme Council for an opportunity to extend the operation of our peacekeeping unit to the territory of this neighboring State. I want to make it clear that this is not about increasing numbers, it's about increasing the number of technical units. Everything remains as it is. Only if applications are made for the transfer of people or cargo, mostly people, to the territory of a neighbouring state, should our military be entitled to do so. All our expenses will be reimbursed through the United Nations in full. If a positive decision is made, it will be a useful thing for the UN, for Ukraine, for the armed forces and specifically for the ground forces whose division is there. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u197	As far as I can tell, there are no people who want to ask questions. It's all in principle. You'll be speaking, then you'll have your opinion. Anatoly Stepanovich, please sit down. Miroshnichenko wanted to speak on this point from the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to, because I do. has been given the floor by the faction of the Party of the Regions, testifying that the Party of the Regions similarly consistently advocates compliance, a clear fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations, especially when it comes to commitments related to the United Nations Organization, which is a joint organization of many, if not the majority of the countries of the world. At the same time, we draw our attention to the fact that the financing of this activity provided for in the decree is nevertheless foreseen from the budget of Ukraine and the subsequent return to the budget of the United Nations. In view of this, I think we will support, of course, this draft decision, but I'm paying attention to the Ministry, I think we're going to have control over this very aspect so that we can clearly develop a debt repayment schedule by the United Nations and that this schedule is clearly implemented, because there are very many examples where Ukraine is demonstrating its goodwill internationally, demonstrating a high culture of compliance with international acts, but it does not have the same retroactive attitude on the part of our partners, both bilaterally and internationally. Thank you. And I urge my colleagues to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u199	Thank you. I was obliged to give the floor to Lviv Mikolaiovich. Please, from the profiling committee, he will comment on this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u200	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Committee on 6 September considered a draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine approving the decision of the President of Ukraine regarding the participation of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in the security of the Special Court in the Republic of Sierra Leone. The findings of the committee. The draft law is in line with the requirements of the law, article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations, the Act on the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States. The other one. The draft law is in line with Ukraine’s international obligations as a member of the United Nations. Ukraine has consistently supported the decisions of the United Nations and UN Security Council resolutions. Third. Amendments to Ukraine's 2003 Act on the deployment of peacekeeping contingents and peacekeeping personnel for Ukraine's participation in the UN mission in Liberia, as requested by the United Nations Secretariat on the participation of peacekeeping contingents in a United Nations mission in Liberia to ensure the security of the special court in the Republic of Sierra Leone, this task is humanitarian and is part of Ukraine's international activities in the maintenance of international peace and security. Given that Ukraine is the only country contributing to Ukrainian resources in this region, only the 56th Special Helicopter Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is able to conduct this humanitarian evacuation operation from Sierra Leone by court officials and UN military personnel in the event of a tightening security situation in the Republic. The National Security and Defence Committee unanimously decided to support the bill and asked all Ukrainian national deputies to support it. The bill is supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budget Affairs. The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority are positive. And I want to add. 51 countries are participating in this mission. And it's a big turn to take our place in Liberia. Therefore, the law must be passed on an urgent basis. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u201	Okay. Have a seat, please. Prince Ruslan Petrovich is speaking instead of Gerasimük. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u202	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, perhaps peacemaking is such a small or one of Ukraine's few international activities, where Ukraine can truly play a role as a world leader. And as a country that is the founder of the United Nations, we have been working hard to fulfill our principles and responsibilities conscientiously and, to me, we need to consider the great system of international peacemaking as such. And any of our, you know, wrong, inaccurate statements, they can totally work against our contingents and thus beat directly at the image of our nation. We recall last year when our peacekeeping contingent in the state of Lebanon succumbed to serious international criticism. You know, there's been a serious international scandal where our peacekeepers have been accused of a lot of things about non-compliance with the principle of peacemaking, of certain indecencies, which in fact, after the investigation has turned out to be a complete lie, but this has led us to move our contingent out of Lebanon. Well, as they say, you know, everything that's not is doing better, because you remember that a Chinese contingent was introduced in place of us, and right after it was introduced, military action and a contingent were forced to play a role in them. But I think under any circumstances we have to fight for this market. And now we just have to support this decision because I know that if we give up this decision, there are already several states in our place: both Russia and the same China, and many others that value this right, because this is not just about the costs, the quality of the small costs of the State budget, which will necessarily continue to be compensated, but about the image of the state. If the UN Security Council decides to trust Ukraine with this kind of mission, we should be proud and, you know, do nothing to prevent it. What's more, I'm pointing out to you that this contingent is not going to be directly involved in peacekeeping activities in, say, the military area, and it's actually going to be doing security functions for the court, the United Nations Special Court in Sierra Leone and the personnel of the United Nations international mission on Sierra Leone and neighbouring countries, particularly Liberia. And this contingent is constantly in Liberia, not Sierra Leone. Only in the event of any unusual, unconventional situation will this contingent have to react, that is, if the aperios have to make such a decision, not all the time, that is, immediately after that decision, the contingent will not enter Sierra Leone. In this regard, I would like to support the bill in question and further, more specifically, the draft law, and continue to have a very conscientious and responsible view of such proposals, since they have a direct impact on the international image of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u203	Thank you, Stepanovich, I hope you won't give up your speech? Oh, no? Then please tell me if you can invest in two minutes because there are two minutes left under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u204	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. We are not talking about directing, in this case, our military even to participate in the peacekeeping functions of the United Nations, but about expanding the functions of our military representation. Yet, when it comes to what is necessary, it adds image, authority, and the United Nations to the world scene. So I would still like the Ministry of Defence, when it's preparing such bills, to have Parliament analyzed what amount we have to pay at the expense of the State Budget, even with compensation. Because whenever we're talking about authority, the image, as we're accepted in the world, we find this money right now, and they're always in the State Budget, and then it turns out that they're being compensated late, they're not going to be included in this budget, and so on. And we don't find military support for social protection, but at the same time, there's always a decision, and we don't know what decision. I believe that in this case the Socialists are voting for this bill. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we have never supported our military involvement in military operations abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u205	Thank you. I think the UN will listen to our position in this case. And now I'm putting the bill to a vote. There is no need to vote in two readings, but immediately as a law. I'm betting on a draft, registration number 1273, please, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u206	For 389 votes. The law is passed. Here we go to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the form of bank formation and the size of statutory capital we are considering this bill. [[second reading]] Bill number 1040, please head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u207	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! We haven't seen this bill in a while in the first reading. I will briefly recall the substance of the bill, which is designed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Masters and the Ukrainian Law on Banks and Banking. The basic thing is that banks in Ukraine have to exist only in the form of open stock companies since the adoption of this bill. And over the course of three years, it's predicted that existing banks will re-register each bank investor to have access to all the information about the bank's founders, about the internal structure of the bank. And I'm confident that this will contribute to the transparency of the banking system in Ukraine. On the first reading, the National Bank filed a minimum statutory capital requirement in the body of the bill at the time of registration of at least five million euros. During the committee's work and second reading to the committee, proposals were made to increase the statutory capital requirements to 10 million euros, and the committee unanimously supported these proposals, provided that this would apply to new banks whose documents would come to the National Bank and would not apply to those banks that are currently operating. This is very easy to explain because today we are interested in not repeating such accidents as the Rebirth Bank, the Inko Bank, the City Bank, the Garant Bank, whose investors today are both taking care of the Supreme Council and the government, and the National Bank. We need to increase the responsibility of these potential bank founders to customers and bank investors for the operation of the banking institution. There was a very long and lengthy discussion on how to ensure the security of existing bank investors so that this rule would not affect them. I had the task of creating a group of representatives of the National Bank, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, entering a huge number of members of the committee, and finding a fully agreed decision that was unanimously supported by a committee that would guarantee, on the one hand, greater transparency of the functioning of the banking system, increased requirements for the registration of new banks and guarantee the functioning of existing banks and the inviolability of investor interests. We are confident that this bill and the need for its adoption are urgent today. We are confident that the functioning of Ukraine's economy, the adoption of this bill will allow us to support those trends that exist in the banking system today. This is also a reduction in the credit rate for lending banks, households, and individuals, which will increase investor protection by making a more informed client when he chooses a bank to place his contribution. What trends in population and legal costs in bank accounts are we going to contribute to making these accounts and these contributions more secure and Ukraine's economy functioned more transparently. Therefore, the committee asks you to support this bill in a unanimous manner in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u208	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Yes, Your Honor, please take the bill. It's a second reading. No, no, there's no questions, there's nothing, it's in the second reading. You'll be in the rostrum, Peter Alexiovich. Be in the rostrum for a while. You can see here that there are three amendments to the National Deputies of Dusty, Arjevetina, they are included. Do not the National Deputies have any comments about taking these amendments into account? Is it? Please, Seminoga. No, no. Yes. Because the committee counted it. And you and I have to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u209	I have a question for Peter Alexiovich. Doesn't he think that amendment number two, which is made by Dustenko and Gorbalem, creates unequal conditions for banks, works in the banking market for those banks that are registered before the bill is passed and those that will be registered after the bill? Once it is adopted, there will be various statutory funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u210	No, we don't. We've discussed this with the National Bank, with the Association of Ukrainian Banks. We're creating a level playing field for everyone who wants to register new banks. At the same time, the requirement to artificially increase the statutory fund requirements of existing banks will pose a threat to the investors of those banks in which they now hold funds. With investors’ interests in mind, we cannot base these people today, since this can result in the liquidation of artificial banks and thus affect the interests of investors. So we did a very careful calculation. We've created a level playing field for everyone regardless of whether it's a foreign investor, a foreign investor, a form of property, a private person or a legal person. Equal conditions for bank registration exist for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u211	Yes, do you insist that we do this, Anatoly? Are you insisting that we vote her? No, it's not. So, what other observations are there? Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, dear Peter Alexiovich. I still can't agree that we're creating a level playing field because there's going to be different statutory funds in banks. But I completely agree with the logic that we should not cause a panic in the banking field. Maybe we could even out the statutory funds, but the deadline was 2, 3, 5 years, so that we can understand that today, in the face of objective circumstances, the banks in operation should have some adaptation period. And those who are already going to create such banks are actually playing by the new rules. So maybe you could transform this right so that for a period of time, I don't know if we can fix this right now, or maybe you can assign the National Bank to make the right decisions, and in 3-5 years there, all statutory funds should still be brought into one condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u213	Thank you so much for asking. The situation is as follows. Indeed, this bill has been passed for three years in the Final Order, a sufficiently normal time when banks can bring their statutory documents into line with the requirements of this law. There are no questions. Questions to the National Bank. This is the National Bank line. It is supported by the committee to gradually, without damaging the interests of investors, increase demands today when the National Bank regulates statutory funds by its decrees in the issuance of individual activities, there are requirements of 3 million, 5 million. And there are already 20 million equivalent requirements for individual activities. I think it's a completely verified position of the National Bank and we support it in this case, and this position is counted there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u214	Dear Peter Alexiovich, let's be clear. The National Bank, and more specifically the President, is proposing to put everyone on a level playing field and to propose that the statutory fund be brought to the number that we are now voting on for three years. You and Gorban are also proposing that this will only apply to those banks that will then be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u215	No, you got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u216	Please read the closing points, then explain to me your suggestions for the final positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u217	I'll make it clear. The president actually suggested that the status capital of all banks should be adjusted to 5 million equivalent. Our proposal, this was actually the entire committee's proposal, we just signed it with Gorbal, our proposal was that for the old banks that are now operating in the market, the statutory capital requirements were actually distributed at 5 million. For the new banks that are registering immediately, the statutory capital requirement from the outset was 10 million, and that is that the position of the National Bank, the position of the committee, is a need for a gradual increase in the statutory capital requirements of the new banks that register. Thus, the requirements for banks currently operating in the market that have investors, investors of natural persons, in order not to be forced into the cross-sectional bed of the requirements of the law, thus creating the same danger that the bank will cease to function and, as a result, the risks to investors' interests, these requirements for banks currently operating are not distributed in imperative form, and their activities are regulated by the National Bank. I said this to my colleague Miroshnichenko that the National Bank is gradually increasing licensing requirements on the statutory capital of one bank or another. But for the banks that are now registering, the committee believes that the Association of Ukrainian Banks supports, the National Bank supports that before you decide to register the bank, in order to increase the liability of investors and customers of the bank, we raise the demand to 10 million dollars. This position was supported by representatives of all factions on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u218	Okay. I'm just gonna do it again. In order to have an answer that we're changing the President's proposal, that means, accordingly, we'll be vetoed into our law. Yes, there are no others?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u219	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make it clear that we have agreed with the Secretary of the President that these requirements and the veto statements are, in a mild sense, unobjective.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u220	No, I'm not saying what's going to happen, I'm just focusing on your attention, the President's proposal and what the committee wants, it's different things.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u221	This position is in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u222	Arjovitin, please. Your licenses aren't there, I'm sorry. You can't ask questions, that's a second reading. Only those who have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u223	Excuse me. Stanislav Argevitin, faction "Our Ukraine". In fact, at first we discussed the issue of five million eq for statutory capital of all banks, but as a result of the discussion with the National Bank, the commercial banks on our committee, we did a better job of raising to 10 million. The euro, but for the newly created banks. The National Bank has a lot of tools to raise the total capital of commercial banks to whatever extent it takes to get this bank liquidated. And my proposal was to leave a $10 million rate, but it only spread to newly created banks, and all the other rules were left in those positions that were before.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u224	Yeah, we're done. Dear colleagues, once again, we have 173 banks. So they're going to work in one condition. Those who want to be created will be with others. That's the point of this law. But if there are no other questions and observations, objections, all proposals are supported, so with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the form of bank formation and the size of statutory capital. Registration number 1040. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u225	The committee's asking for support. [[13:43:18]] For 390
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u226	The law is passed. The results of the vote show that no new banks will ever be created. Don't touch the old ones. Yes, let's go to the ratification section. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the Northern Investment Bank is under consideration. Registration number 007. Please, while the reporter goes, I'm asking you to sign in, if you're willing, from the faction. Since the faction, we have a national MP. If you are willing to register, regardless of whether you belong to a faction, please make such an entry. Either I have the wrong board, or you have acted wisely that no one has signed up. Yes, please report to Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Megonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine introduced a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the North Investment Bank, prepared in accordance with the legislation in force today. Let me brief you on this bank. The Northern Investment Bank was created in 1975 by Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden as an international financial organization. On January 1, 2005, the Baltic countries joined the bank. The central office of a bank in Helsinki. The share capital of the bank is 4.2 billion euros. The principles of the Bank’s functioning are similar to those of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the ratings. World rating agencies have the highest rating of 3A. The bank provides medium- and long-term investment loans for up to 20 years. The repayment schedule includes a five - year extension period. I mean, during this period, only percent is paid during this period. Credits are given at the stake of a pound plus one, one is for the services of a bank. In doing so, it should be noted that the above terms of lending are similar to those of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Bank. The European Bank also provides a pound plus one. The International Librarian Bank for Reconstruction and Development plus 0.5, it has more resources, it's more powerful. Today, the interest rate of a pound per dollar is 5.4 percent, so if you add one percent to a bank service, the dollar loan is going to be 6.4 percent. The floating rate on the euro today is four percent. If the loan goes to the euro, plus one percent of the bank’s services, then the euro will be credited under five percent. The bank provides funds that do not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the project. The Bank's policy is that the Bank itself is looking for additional financial resources, and in this regard it is working closely with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We had a meeting with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development at the Ministry of Finance yesterday, and he confirmed that he was working with the Northern Investment Bank, and they're working on the same conditions. The question of article three of this covenant, which is proposed for ratification, is quite fair for the national MPs. Article three states: “The interest and all other payments that are due to the activity envisaged by this agreement, as well as the bank’s assets and income associated with such activity, are exempt from taxation. I answer that question. Taking into account the bank’s credit funding for projects, the countries cooperating with it provide such a tax regime. For example, such a regime is foreseen in a contract concluded by a bank with the Russian Federation in April 1997. The Russian Federation is now implementing a credit programme for environmental projects in the northwestern region of Russia, and the state-owned Vodkanal company is receiving credit for the purchase of waste burning plants and other projects. Once again, among international financial organisations, the bank is recognised as an international financial organisation established under conditions similar to that of the International Bank, the European Bank and in accordance with the statutory instruments of these banks: the International and European Bank. And a member of these banks since 1992 is Ukraine. So these international organizations enjoy the same privileges. We believe that the presence of this bank will help improve the investment climate in our country. There was a project on the profile committee, on the Committee on Finance and Banking, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Scientific and Experimental Authority. All have positive conclusions I would like to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u228	Thank you. Will there be questions? Sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Kirilchuk Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u229	Dear reporter, Yulia Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk. There is no direct impact of the framework agreement on the budget, and a direct impact on the budget will be mandatory. We understand that there's an advantage: extra loans are cheap, investments and so on. But there's still no financial accounting for possible budget losses under the same laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u230	Thank you. There's no financial calculation because, as you said correctly, it's a framework. This agreement does not contain the amount of the loan. It's not for one year, it's for many years. Projects will be financed, financed both in the public sector and in the private sector. If the private sector does not have any guarantees, there is no impact on the budget. This requirement, by the way, the European Bank, when financing the private sector, does not require guarantees, nor does the mortgage take: property, otherwise it works with a private borrower without interfering with the state. If we are. But government programs can also be financed. If government programs are financed, it's going to be one or two more, the government will ask the bank to support one or the other project. Of course, if a government program, the bank will require a guarantee. Then this threat will arise, if this borrower fails to pay off, the state-owned borrower may, of course, be at risk that the budget will pay off the borrower. But it's under a specific project. We, if we give a national guarantee, are necessarily in the budget supplement, where the state enterprise, we will be that this enterprise, or an institution or some executive authority, is being given credit under such a guarantee, and the risk of non-refoulement is going to be invested in the budget, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u231	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u232	Sergey Migonovich, please tell me you named the loan price of liber plus one. That's a great loan price. But please tell me, how is this standard and this price going to be fixed? Especially in the private sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u233	It's going to be fixed in the way of each credit project. If it's different, we'll ask the question, sorry, then you're not an international financial organization like the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that you're comparing yourself to. With the right conclusions. We're not going to go to a higher price than a pound plus one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u234	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u235	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear reporter! There is no doubt that we must support the proposals that are generally in favour of our state, including, above all, the provision of cheap long-term financial resources, especially for the expansion and implementation of investment projects. But. Article 3 of this Framework Agreement provides that the interest and all other payments that are held by the bank resulting from the activity envisaged by this Agreement, as well as the bank’s assets and income associated with such activity, are exempt from taxation. Please answer, how can this be understood?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u236	Valentin Grigorovich, thank you for asking. I said that this is a standard that is set out in loan agreements that are both granted by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This agreement was negotiated with the Russian Federation, and in April 1997, a bank was concluded with the Russian Federation. Why? Where I said about the International Bank and the Eurobank, the member of these banks has been Ukraine since 1992, it's in the statutes of these banks. It's here. In the charter of this bank, given that it provides the same cheap credit resources as Eurobank and the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it has also set itself up. I mean, because these percentages that he's going to make, the pound plus one, they're not taxed in the country where the loan is granted. The percentages.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u237	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee of Dustenko. He was just in the session room. He's backing up, isn't he? Who from the committee? Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u238	Undoubtedly, this proposal must be supported, this treaty ratified. First of all, this is another alternative source for credit resources in Ukraine. That's the first one. And the second. This, of course, will improve the image, the international image of our nation. Today, there are several similar organizations in Ukraine, such as the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank for Reconstruction, the International Finance Corporation, the German credit institution, and every customer, every bank in Ukraine is honored to work with such organizations because they really provide long-term resources. These resources have a lower interest rate order than the resources we have in the Ukrainian market and they are long-term. The only problem is that similar organizations tend to write down their tax guarantee and security standards in our market, but I didn't accidentally ask my question to the reporter, because neither in the charter of this organization, nor in the framework agreement, is there any indication that this organization in Ukraine is going to lend to the interest rate of librarians plus one. So I suggested to the government that we use article 11 on cooperation, which states that the government of Ukraine and the bank regularly discuss the main objectives and criteria for lending. And I think, on the first opportunity, at the first meeting, when I make this procedure clear, for the preferences that they get for us in Ukraine, they're guilty of lending projects both in the state and, especially, in the private sector at the price of librarians and no more. And in general, of course, this proposal needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have one to discuss, but the situation has been clarified. He's taking off his offer. So we finished our discussion. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the Northern Investment Bank, Bill No. 0007. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:58:03]] For 369 The law is passed. The framework agreement between Ukraine and the Northern Investment Bank has been ratified. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues! You and I, when we were looking at the draft amendments to the committees, we gave an order to the Committee of Profiles by decrees 1159-6 and 1159-12. The committee is ready to report its decision, please, from the Kozub Committee, Alexander Andriyovich, please. 1159-6 and 1159-12, back to consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! There has been a meeting of the Committee on the Ethics of Deputies to ensure the work of the Supreme Council, and we are submitting harmonized, refined data. Yesterday on the committee, the issue of the transition of Jury Nikola Volodymyrovich from the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations to the Committee on Environmental Policy was really being considered. And since there's a quota there, it's suggested that you satisfy that question and accept the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u241	1159-6 is the language. 1159-12 on the jury about his appointment as a member of the committee. From what? For questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u242	It shifts from agrarian policy and land relations to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u243	Understand? You want me to vote? Who's in favour, please vote. [[14:00:09]] For 249 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u244	1159-6 The transition of Selovov Andrija Borisovich to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. This issue was not addressed on the committee because the quota was exceeded. Later, we were assigned by the committee to consider the issue of the quota principle to those committees where the number on the committee was not 20 but 30. So the quota on this committee is not 6.9 how it was calculated, but 10.3 At this time, Kluev, Tulub, has come out of the committee. It is suggested that this request be granted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u245	That's Selovarov's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-14-m0.u247	Yes. I'm voting on Bill 1159-6. On the approval of a member of the Committee on Fuel Energy and the corresponding discharge from the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Please be supportive. [[14:01:23]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Have a seat. The draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Maintenance Obligations, registration number 0013, is being complied with. Is there a need to report? No questions to the reporter? No comments to the committee? None. No one insists on the performance? Can I put it to a vote? Then, with your permission, I am voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions on Maintenance Obligations, registration number 0013. Please be supportive. [[14:02:20]] For 378 Thank you. The law is passed. We joined the Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Maintenance Obligations. A draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on jurisdiction, the law applicable, recognition, enforcement and cooperation on parental responsibility and child protection is under consideration. Registration number 0019. Is there a need to ask questions? None. The Children’s Family Committee for Youth Politics, Sports, and Tourism notes? None. Willing to share in the discussion are there? None. Can we put it to a vote? With your permission, I'm putting to the vote a bill under number 0019 on the adoption of the Act concerning Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the jurisdiction of the law applicable, the recognition of implementation and cooperation on parental responsibility and child protection. Please vote. [[14:03:35]] For 395 The law is passed, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have worked hard with you, and we have every reason to declare the morning session closed. The beginning of the evening at 16 hours. Have a good one, everybody.
