ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, journalists, invited, radio audiences, TV sets! I'd like the deputies to take their seats, prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:43]] They were able to record their presence in the 397 National Deputies Hall. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the birthday of Anatoly Alexandrovich Bugajc. This is the basket of energy engineering, the director general of Turboatu, everyone knows it in Ukraine and not only in Ukraine. They know less about Tabunsky Angelica Victoriana, but she also has her birthday today, and let us wish her success in all her affairs. We would also like to congratulate Lissina Mikola Pavlovich, who is now fulfilling her birthday. And Shaman's Valery Viktorovich is also a noun for today. Let's welcome him. I hope that this number of nouns will not prevent us from working constructively on the draft laws that have been passed today. Let us now consider some of the questions that are offered to you in your day - to - day life. The first question is “About the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy A. Derkača”. A report from Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please be made by the head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u2	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 1 November, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Derčak Andrija Leonidovic, concerning the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy in connection with his appointment as President of the State Enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoat. In accordance with the requirements of part 1 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Committee introduced a draft decree “On the short-term suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Derkač Andrija Leonidovic”. Please consider. Order 2454.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u3	There are no questions for the reporter. Do you have a question? Sign up for questions. Three minutes literally. A barrel. Klukkowski. It's pink. I'm sorry, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u4	Anton Ruzicki, Party “Christian-Democratic Union”. Please pass the word to Boris Bespalom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u6	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I think we should celebrate and thank both Mr. Andrey Dercach, who so quickly showed responsibility and reaction and immediately made such a statement, and the committee considered it. This is one of the examples that is worthy of imitation. On the other hand, we have other examples. Since May 25, there has been a mixture of a very respectable man — Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva. We all know it, we respect it, but it may be very difficult for her to work two jobs and so forth. So I want to ask you a question already, I think, and as a head, what are you doing to make this compatibility stop? This applies, for example, to some others associated with the Master’s Court and so forth. I mean, you have double standards of some kind. Or maybe it's because she's a member of the Party of Regions, and that's why you do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u7	I have answered that question twice. We have in the Committee issues under the Rules and laws that exist in our State. There is no relationship between these personnel issues and the political dimension. As for Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva, you know as well as I do that her position is governed by separate legislation. And under this legislation, consideration of her dismissal is in another committee, which should give an opinion on the matter. We made a communication with this committee, and they gave us the answer to what the Legal Office had requested to address this issue. As soon as the Committee has taken the appropriate decision, it will be obliged to put this decision into the Chamber and we will have to take a decision on it in a closed vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u8	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. The honourable reporter, unfortunately, is completely dissatisfied with your answer, especially since it is somewhat deforming the situation that is. You know, it's been a long time since we've asked Mrs. Karpachov a question, thinking that she's still in charge of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council, and she's not working as a member of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, however, she reported her legislative proposal. Thus, yesterday's documentary evidence of the reconciliation of two powers, which is a direct violation of not the Rules, but of the Constitution of Ukraine, with the consent of the authorized human rights officer, please state to you the question as a representative of the Legislative Committee and of the parliamentary ethics and a representative of the relevant faction, how do you assess the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine by a representative of the people of Ukraine, a national deputy of Ukraine and at the same time an authorised representative of human rights? How is this in line with the Rules, with respect for legislation, and with parliamentary ethics?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u10	Once again, I reiterate that there is no political element in the consideration of the matter in the Rules of Procedure. On this issue, which concerns Karpachowa, there are also relevant documents on two other people's deputies, which are considered in the Rules Committee and are, in practice, in the same state. The Regulatory Committee is very closely monitoring this situation, but it can only work within the legislative field, the distinguished people's deputies that you have adopted before us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u11	Thank you, take your seats. But I would ask, the question is, it needs to be decided, it needs to be solved. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Derctor Andrija Leonidovich. Please identify yourself. [[10:10:31]] For 355 Decision taken. The election of Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is reported by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. The committee reviewed the statement made by Ukrainian national deputy Kozachenka Alexiyyovich, a member of the bloc's deputy faction “Our Ukraine” about his election as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking and decided to support the application. The calculated quota for the Ukrainian parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” in committees of up to 30 persons is 4.6, and the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking is composed of 4 national deputies, a representative of the "Our Ukraine" faction, i.e. the quota is not used. A draft decision on the election of the national MP Kozachenka for your consideration has been tabled, please support. Draft decision 2455.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u13	I'm putting to the vote draft regulation 2455, please support. [[10:12:00]] For 171 I honestly don't understand why the MPs don't vote. I repeat: a person works for a quota, can work. The fraction is not selected; the committee is positive. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[10:12:37]] For 204 All right, work again. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u14	The committee accepted, considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Jew Igor Grigorovich, a member of the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, on his election as a member of the Committee on Justice, vacating the duties of a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. The calculated quota for the members of the Committees is 4.8, and the Committee on Justice operates from faction 4 of the Ukrainian National Deputies, i.e. the quota is not used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the deputy general of the Jews and to make an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u15	I'm voting on draft regulation 2456 and I'm asking you to support it. Please, it's made up of the logic of the region of Ukraine. [[10:13:44]] For 225 The decision is not taken. If you want to go back to that vote, vote. [[10:14:08]] For 217 Work again, please, with the factions, and on the Conciliation Council we will return to that question. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u16	I feel that our committee will never be without a job. At his meeting on November 1st, I considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Falka Volodymyr Ivanovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for election as a member of the Committee on European Integration. The calculated quota for the Party’s parliamentary faction on the Committees is 7.2, and the Committee on European Integration operates from this faction of five Ukrainian national deputies. So the quota is not used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Falka and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u17	I'm voting on draft regulation 2457. It meets the rules of the Rules. Please. [[10:15:13]] For 289
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u18	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Demidek Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, a member of the Ukrainian Party’s MP for election as a member of the Health Committee. The calculated quota for the Party’s parliamentary faction of the Committee’s regions is 7.2, and the Health Committee has four Ukrainian national deputies working from this faction. So the quota is not used. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy, Demidek Volodymira Mikolajovic, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and a draft decision was put forward. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u19	Do you have a question? Give the word to Matthew, he. I'm just following procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u20	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Since the Party of Regions really has the right and the reason for the quota to be represented on this committee, unlike the blocking of candidates from “Our Ukraine”, from BUT, I call on BUT and “Our Ukraine” to vote in favour of this candidature and to include it in this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u21	This is a discussion. I support this proposal as well as the previous one. I'd like to ask: a faction that didn't vote to vote for them, demonstrating that she wants to support each other and her candidates. If there is no violation of the procedure in proportion to the number of committees, why don't you vote? Draft Decree 2457 shall be put to the vote. 2458. [[10:17:06]] For 351 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u22	The committee reports that at its meeting on November 1, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Andriyovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MPs, reviewed the application for election of him as a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees of up to 20 persons is 7.2, and the Committee on Transport and Communications operates from this faction of 10 people’s deputies, the quota used. The committee decided not to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national MP Rudnik. But the National MP registered a claim for 2453, asking that he be supported. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u23	I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, but let me get the details straight. MP Rudnik, a professional who's worked all his life in transportation, no relation to culture, I don't have to culture, I don't have to work in culture. But he was assigned, assigned to a culture, as it were, to a cultural committee. He asks that his knowledge be used, transferred to this committee. I propose factions, let's vote for him, and you take off your one-man committee and put him on a cultural committee. And then there will be no problems. Now, please support Rudnik's candidacy, because he's actually a professional. Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[10:19:10]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you. But I repeat, I am addressing Raisa Vasilovna, take one representative from the Transport Committee to head the faction and give it to the Cultural Committee. I'll do it again. One moment, Alexander Sergiyovich, I'd like to ask you again. Because, wait, because the principle of proportionality with respect to Kozachenka's candidates, the Jew and Falka we voted like this. The falcon was voted on. As for Cosachenko and the Jew, I didn't miss anyone's proportional principle, and the fractional quota is if we were to form these lists. I'm asking for your attention. If we were to vote on these lists at the beginning of the committee, there would be no comment, even no comment. I ask everyone to support this proposal. Who's in charge of getting back to that question and demonstrating consolidation in this respect, please? To return to the vote, I ask you to do it. [[10:20:52]] For 218. In the next plenary week, we will be sure to resolve the matter. I ask you to include this issue in the Conciliation Board. We will discuss it with the heads of committees and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u24	And the final question of Alexander Alexandrovich! The committee reviewed the statement made by Ukrainian national deputy Zubka Yuri Grigorovich, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, to elect him as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. The estimated quota of up to 30 members of the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction on committees is 1.8. And the Committee on Budget Affairs is working with this faction of two Ukrainian national deputies. So the quota is used, the committee has decided not to support the statement of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zubka, but it also insists that his candidature be voted on in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u25	I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling that's being tabled for your consideration. Please. [[10:22:01]] For 287 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u27	Thank you. Once again, to the two candidates that I think are not rightly elected to the committees on which we have been identified, we will return to the Conciliation Council and find a solution. A draft Ordinance on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine is under consideration. I'm a reporter here, and I'd like to make a few suggestions. First, traditionally, there has been a temporary special commission in the Supreme Council since 1991 that works on constitutional laws. Continuing this tradition, the Conciliation Council expressed its reasoning on the need to create a commission that could be headed by the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. And in order for this committee to be represented by constitutional specialists, first of all, of all the factions that are in Parliament. On the other hand, I understand that the Committee on Legal Policy is expressing its opinion on this point, doubting the need to create such a committee because it is involved in the prerogative, or in the objects of knowledge of this particular legal committee. When we discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council, it was that no one took off the committee’s responsibility to analyse and draw conclusions on projects. But there's one colossal that touches those documents that come out of the Supreme Council's eyes, but it's about different committees. For example, the Cabinet of Ministers Act, we will consider it soon. It's an object of knowledge and a constitutional and legal committee, because it's an article of the Constitution, but it's also a subject of knowledge of the Committee on State Building, because it's its prerogative. In order to remove this coalition, you could define it this way, all the committees that have a relation to this or another bill consider them, but as a committee of profiles, there is a temporary committee here that takes all these considerations into account and submits them to the Supreme Council as reporting on these documents. However, I have expressed my opinion on the need to create such a commission, but there is a reflection by the Committee on Legal Policy, and I would ask Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov to comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday our Committee on Legal Policy carefully considered your suggestions, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, and discussed them quite vividly. Sharing the general view of the need for maximum concentration on best experts on issues related to the continuation of constitutional reform and a number of constitutional laws along with it, we believe that we are not ready to make such a decision today and would like to postpone its consideration to the next plenary week, and this is the time we use to participate, with your participation, in the leadership of the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, it is our common view to discuss this issue once again. The point is, I have to remind myself that at one time, when the Committee on Legal Policy was still a really powerful committee, it was the whole constitutional process and the constitutional laws that were the subject of this committee being informed. The committee now has only a constitutional and constitutional jurisdiction, and everything related to State construction, constitutional laws, has been referred to the State Building Committee. If we create such a commission without defining exactly what our committees will do, there is a certain danger that we will get rid of our committees, our very serious subjects of knowledge, in fact, for example, in the Committee of Legal Policy there will be only, of course, important, but still not so large issues of the notary of the executive service and something else. So then the question is, do you need a committee with very, very limited functions? So I ask you once again, without denying the substance of your proposal, to transfer another week of decision-making from this issue and to use this time to hold additional consultations so that we can, with your participation, clearly determine what our committees will do if we need to convince members of our committees and then unanimously come to a joint opinion and go to the session room with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u29	I have such an offer, honourable deputies. Now, a minute. I have expressed my thoughts and remain that way. However, the committee’s position should not be overlooked, for it is also well - founded. I'd like us to approach that question this way. You prepare for committee meetings where you can predict, including options for the subject of the committee's views, if this committee works. And the second. If it doesn't work. I don't have any objections, I'm saying I'm going to come to a committee meeting, I'm going to consult you if the professionals working on this committee are determined on the need to address to their knowledge all the issues related to legal reform, the Constitution and so on, I won't deny it, then I'm going to call off my bill. If, during the talks, it turns out that it would be more effective to create a commission based on an example of previous parliamentary calls, then we will be determined next plenary week. I would like to support the proposal in this case to move this issue to the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, in fact you offered what you asked, our committee and committee of Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u31	Eugene Petrovich, there's a question for you at the Matvienka. Please. Matvienka, I told you to focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u32	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” block. Eugene Petrovich, working on this draft decree, I'd like to draw your attention to a fundamental invalidity. When you form a commission, the quota representation should be guaranteed. From the number of members, we form a guide. As it turns out, Oneichuk of the members is recommended as a substitute, and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is not included in any quota, but he is appointed as a leader that violates the principle of equal representation. I'd like you to respond by working on this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u33	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I must point out to you that our committee is not a subject of the legislative initiative and we have not done these calculations, and we have a slightly different position at all. Some inadequacies about the composition of the committee were brought to the attention of members of our committee yesterday. So there's the author of the legislative initiative, there are those who did these calculations, and I think they're going to take it into account and take it into account in further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u34	I obviously had to answer that question. This was the opinion of the Conciliation Council. That's why I thought of it. But if you're having this discussion, I'm sure I won't deny it. I'll come to the committee meeting, we'll find out all the details. So I'm voting on a motion to move this issue to the next plenary week. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:31:08]] For 345. Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Decision is being considered on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of corruption, the abuse of office by individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as set out in the article "Another Police" of the newspaper "2000" of September 08, 2006. Eugen Petrovich Kushnarov reports. Please, Eugene Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the subject that we are currently discussing, and the draft decision you are well aware of, it has caused some social resonance. The article “Another Police” which was published in the newspaper “2000” of September 8, 2006 was the basis for addressing the issue of the creation of a special commission of inquiry for us. I would like to remind you that this article deals with the facts of the individual, as well as the fact that there are systemic, widespread abuse of office, as well as corruption on the part of senior officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its district departments. In particular, the first article dealt with these facts in the Office of Internal Affairs of the Odessa region. We have suggested that because the issue of the authority of our militia is at the same time a question of the authority of Ukraine as a whole, we should look into all of these facts and either disprove them together, or if they are confirmed, we should do everything we can to clear the internal affairs of the people who compromise this system. I want to make it clear to you that 19 materials have already been printed in the 2000 newspaper for two months in the development of this topic. These materials contain an enormous number of similar facts, systematic abuse of office and corruption, including appointments to senior positions in the IMF system of people who compromised themselves, including the possibility of bribes in such service assignments. It is the absence of a response to many numerous civil appeals against militia personnel, illegal dismissals, illegal drug trafficking controlled by internal affairs officials, illegal weapons storage, smuggling schemes, and legalization of traffic in Ukraine, illegal sales of property items, land belonging to the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, illegal housing, construction of homes, the acquisition of expensive cars, and stamps. And we can continue this list. In general, the facts are given by nine district administrations of internal affairs, the central apparatus and the equipment of internal affairs in transport. These publications refer to the abuse and corruption of 73 high - ranking internal affairs officials. Therefore, we believe that there are even more reasons for creating such a special commission of inquiry today. The composition of the commission is proposed, and the terms of its activities are defined. Only two months have passed since this legislative initiative was introduced. So I'm asking you to immediately consider if you vote, change the date of this committee's previous report from 1 November to 1 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u36	The question is to the reporter. Please sign up. Five minutes, please. It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u37	Please give the floor to national deputy Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u38	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Eugene Petrovich, I have a question of this order to you. In preparing the draft decree, the requirements of part one of article 14 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and articles 80 and 82 of the Supreme Council Rules are not fully taken into account as to whether a national MP may be a member of one committee, one special committee, or one commission of inquiry? In this list of persons who are proposed for membership, there are persons who are already members of other special commissions. I don't think you can let that happen. Please answer why this requirement of the law is not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u39	Unfortunately, you didn't name specific names. It would be much easier for me to give you the answer. At some point it was found that the deputy of Hussarov, who was offered by the faction of the Party of the Regions to form a commission, was indeed a member of another commission. He was replaced by a deputy to Matthew. With regard to the membership of Deputy Sovkovic on the commission on gas issues, he wrote an application to resign from the commission. This question was discussed. I'm talking to Mr. Sovkovic, he can confirm that, he wrote an application to resign from that commission, so he has every right at this time to be a member and head this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u40	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u41	Both professional committees supported this decision and the composition of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u42	Vladimir Mopsik, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to my colleague, Mikola Onichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u43	The Honorable Rapporteur, composed of the people, the national deputies who are proposed to join the commission is Chevchenko Catherine Borissovna from the faction of the "Our Ukraine" Block. I'm informing you that we don't have a national deputy like Chevchenko Catherine Borissovna. That's the first one. And the second. Please tell us whether you think it is right to refer to specific publications when creating temporary commissions, including in this article or within the scope of this article. Such practices are popularizing these publications naturally, but is this actually parliamentary work?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u44	About your first question. If there's been a technical error, I apologize, it's a matter of checking, clarifying, because the proposals for the composition of the commission were offered to the future possible head of the commission by each faction. About your second question. I don't know if I need an explanation. The Supreme Council can create a special commission of inquiry to verify any facts. The facts cited in 19 publications are forceful. I don't want to repeat it anymore, it's the authority of the government in general, and what's missing is the public response and the internal affairs bodies themselves and those who should have responded to it above shows that the Supreme Council is the only body that can figure this out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u45	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Sergey Platkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u47	Eugene Petrovich, that's a question. Is that why you react and try to respond only to this article? After all, the newspaper had resonant articles, which included Harkov's native and the procurator's office in Kharkiv Province. Maybe we'll patronize all the publications of the 2000 newspaper? And answer the question. We are now working with the police, and I say that they used to say, "Harkov is a Mentov city", today the right thing to do is to say "Harkov is a prosecutor's town" in the prosecutor's office. These publications are also found in the 2000 newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u48	I have already reported that the first article on this issue was the basis for the legislative initiative, and this is also mentioned in the title of the decree, the first article in the newspaper “2000”, which was published on September 8th. This article was called “Another Police. ” The next article, by the way, was entitled “Other Police 2”. At first, these articles focused solely on abuse, the corruption of police officials. In fact, in the following publications the newspaper touched the work of the prosecutor’s office. For example, on October 26, the article “Two Words About the Prosecutor’s Word” and some others. As far as the Harks are concerned, there were indeed mentions of officials from the Kharkiv District Attorney's Office. When this issue was discussed in the Committee on Legislative Security, the committee members made a proposal to me, and even that question was put to the vote in the committee to set up a committee on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u49	Let him finish his thought. But you might want to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u50	Not only this article but also other publications in the media. But this proposal, I didn't deny it, but she didn't find support on this committee at the time. If the session room comes back to that question, it's her right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u51	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, head of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! As early as October 10th this year, the Committee on Law Enforcement Legislation considered the draft ruling proposed by the Kushnarov, Kushnarov, Kiselov, Pecklusenko and decided on the appropriateness of creating such a commission: on the investigation of the facts presented in the newspaper “2000”, “Another militia”. On that same day, the committee approached factions in accordance with article 80 of the Rules of Procedure for the appointment of its representatives to the committee. Within two weeks, however, by October 24, none of the factions had submitted their representatives, as provided by the Rules. On October 20th, at my signature, I repeated my request to the heads of the factions, in accordance with the Rules, to appoint representatives to a temporary commission whose decision to create was taken. However, only one message was received on the first day of the committee meeting, from the faction “Our Ukraine”. At the same time, the committee received an addition to the ruling, which was initiated by the subjects of the legislative initiative, but yesterday at the meeting it was established that the candidates identified in the letter of the head of the faction “Our Ukraine” of Roman Immortal do not correspond with those identified in the letter submitted by the subject of the legislative initiative Kushnarov. In this regard, without being able to establish what was right, the committee, based on part two of article 80 and article 80 of the Rules, decided to postpone the consideration of the matter and to listen to it at the next meeting of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u53	Excuse me, repeat your last offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u54	After hearing the National Deputies of the Committee members, having discussed the differences in the proposed composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council for the examination of the facts set out in the newspaper “2000” on the basis of the articles part two of article 82 and article 80 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee approved the postponement of the matter to the next meeting of the Committee with a view to remedying the alleged violations in the formation of the Personal Composition of the Interim Commission of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u55	Thank you, of course. The question is to Vladimir Mikolaiovich? Please sign up for five minutes. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please tell me at the previous meeting of the committee only these remarks were before the draft ruling or others?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u57	Vladimir Romanovich, thank you for asking. Since we believe that the consideration of this issue will now be postponed due to the lack of compliance with the Rules, at the previous meeting of the Committee on 10 October, I stress that the decision has been taken unanimously: to remove two paragraphs from the draft regulation, the first paragraph, which mentions the name of the Minister of Interior and the sixth paragraph, which is proposed for the period of the Commission's activities, such a kind of know-how to remove it before the performance of its duties. Paragraph 6 does not correspond to the Constitution, article 61, since the presumption of innocence is in effect, no one can be found guilty until it is declared guilty by the court. I think that the Minister of Internal Affairs himself is the most interested person to correct the information set out in the 2000 project. Since I will add to this that the situation with Husarov and Sovkovic is not defined, there are objective conditions for hearing this question the next time all legal formalities are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u58	Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u59	Landik, Party of Regions. That's what's interesting about the situation here: when Lucenko makes public television, everyone realizes: yes, thieves, bandits, and so on. When a respected newspaper writes, we don't want to investigate. By the way, I called Lucenco seven times on this, wanted to meet because one of the facts I'd like to clarify in person, they tell me every day, he's busy, he doesn't want to see you about this. Therefore, if I were to be included in this commission, I would be happy to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Landik. I want to tell you that we are the legislators, and I think we should be the first to demonstrate the filigree accuracy of law enforcement, including regulatory norms. And the fact that we often deviate from them is that we are such legal nihilism, ignorance, sown in all of Ukrainian society. As far as your wish is concerned, once again, this is another proof that we are going to agree definitively, by filing, make an official commission of each faction under the signature of the faction manager, as required by the Rules, of your candidature. We're all going to take a warning, and we can do it tomorrow, and today, we can do it, and we can do it, and we can do it, and we can do it, and we can do it, and we can do it. But the Rules must be observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u61	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, who did "Our Ukraine" offer in stock? What names?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u62	"Our Ukraine" was a letter signed by the Immortal and offered the candidates Ruzick and Kolesin. At the same time, the draft decrees mention the names Lewchenko and Maruszczenko. We could not explain yesterday how right and just they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u64	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Dear reporter! There are dozens if not hundreds of articles dealing with corruption and the wrong actions of one or another State authorities. In particular, there are articles, and very much, about bad work, about the corrupt work of our prosecutor's office, it's about, in particular, Attorney General Medvedzk and all of this you know very well. And yet, we're setting up a publication commission in the 2000 newspaper, which, let's put it bluntly, is not marked by objectivity, it serves a certain political power. Questions. I mean, aren't we setting a precedent today on the principle that you print and we create a commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to answer the first part of your question. That during the discussion of this issue on October 10, the committee raised the question of how to entrust the commission that would be created to investigate not only these facts but all known facts, including the corruption of the prosecutor’s office, other law enforcement agencies. However, the committee in this case is bound by an object that is set out in the idea of legislators and cannot extend it. You can make a new proposal to create a new commission and so on. The other one. I personally denied that we are not an investigative institution and that we cannot replace the relevant organs. However, by October 10, the Attorney General’s Office had not yet completed the examination of the facts set out in this article. To date, she has completed and informed the committee, and the members of the committee are familiar with the information provided by the Attorney General’s Office. Of course, everyone has to do his job. But since such an initiative in the National Deputies arose, and the committee as a collegiate body, the working body of the Supreme Council considered it and supported it by voting, now the final word for the Supreme Council. I wish there weren't precedents for everyone to do their job. The Supreme Council is mainly in control and in law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u66	Tsapuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u67	Stephen Zapuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I ask that you support this decision because cases of abuse by officials of the Ministry of the Interior have also occurred in the Kirovograd region. And these cases are said to be widespread. I have repeatedly addressed the minister. Sadly, though, he did not receive a positive answer to any of his petitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u68	Dear colleague, as requested, we will ask the Minister of Internal Affairs within the framework of parliamentary control why he does not listen to the Landik MP, why he does not respond to your requests, and we will give an appropriate answer. Because our committee is extending the framework of parliamentary control to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you. In this situation, I want to confirm your words. Again, in the Kirovograd region, there is real unrest. And we see this from the letters coming to the committee, this is a very sensitive sensor, when citizens are mass-seeking to protect their rights, in an institution called the Supreme Council. But in this case, when we're talking about creating a commission, I think it was more appropriate to move it, using and eliminating all the formal inadequacies that conflict with the rules and thus give impetus to the commission's activities. You remember Baron Münhausen: “As we call the ship, so will the ship and sail.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u69	Please take your seats. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion, please sign up for five minutes. Let's give it a minute, and we've got four men on the list. Stoyan, please. Is Stoyan talking or not? Excuse me, Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u70	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, I think we are witnessing the beginning of a political dispute over who was actively involved in the fight against the past criminal regime that had been committed to falsification. Today, there is a proposal to create a commission of inquiry for Lucenko, yesterday launched an attack on the Minister of Defense of Gristenka, who has views on NATO and the Black Sea Navy, unlike Prime Minister Janukovich's views, tomorrow will be the launch of an attack on the Foreign Minister of Tarasuk, who has views of foreign politics that match the universal national unity. I think that newspapers will now be used to deal with people who are working for Ukraine and for the sake of reforming the system they are leading. I also have a question about why, in all past publications, in all ministries, in other institutions, no one has ever made any proposals for a commission, but only Lucenko. It's a political solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u71	Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u72	Pass it to Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u73	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u74	Thank you. A faction of Communists, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Since the Committee has considered the draft regulation and has taken no account of the decision it has taken, the Supreme Council is competent to make the decision it deems necessary. That's the first one. And the second. As long as you and I are in deep thought, whether or not we need such a commission, I emphasize that the individual militia will be insolvent by now. I would like to say that I have made several statements about the fact that the deputy chief of the Primorski District Department of Odessa, unfortunately, his name is Martinyuk, not just protecting people anymore, but organizing beatings. And there are appropriate videos that confirm this. So we're just gonna wait until they're into banditry at all? I'm asking you, your honor, to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u75	It's a bummer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u76	Roman Zabzaluk. The word is passed on to Alexander Turkinov, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u77	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! You know we're also not satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We are not satisfied by the wave of banditry that prevails in Ukraine today. We're not satisfied, I'm sorry that no resonant crime is revealed, but there's talk, there's press conferences that have no consequences. At the same time, I'd like to say to the distinguished anti-crisis coalition: my friends, this is your Ministry of Internal Affairs -- it's your responsibility. I want to remind you that the commission's investigator is a weapon of opposition. Make a decision to take responsibility and shoulder that responsibility. Don't make another show here! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u79	Well said, Zabzaluk speaks, please. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u80	Alexander Stoyan. The faction of the Party of the Regions. I think there is no doubt that the newspaper “2000” is an authoritative and responsible newspaper. Moreover, if there are 19 publications against the minister and senior officials, people understand their responsibility. So there is no doubt that the truth is written there. In this regard, I am sure that I would like to make a decision on the establishment of a temporary commission. But I have one observation: point four, here's six months to consider, you know, it's going to be six, then another year. I think it'll be enough for two months for the commission to work and they'll make the right proposals. I support the adoption of the Supreme Council Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the Verification of Corruption and Abuse of Service by Individual Officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, you have participated in this discussion and there are several options for making a decision. The first is given in the draft decree by the legislators of Kushnarov, Kushnarov, Kiselov, Pecklusenko. The second position expressed by the Head of the Committee of Profiles, Vladimir Stratovic, on the transfer of the matter after the removal of all the inaccuracies in the draft decrees, which on the one hand arose for objective reasons because a project had been prepared for two months, and on the other hand because of some disagreement with the candidates put forward by the commission. And the third major thing that comes out of questions and answers is that, firstly, in the draft decision, or in the Supreme Council document itself, it's hardly appropriate to popularize a newspaper or something, because all our newspapers are just writing the truth, you know. But there is no need to give the newspapers priority. In addition, the draft decree provides for the need to delete the relevant articles from the draft decree, which is called the name of the minister, until it has been approved and so on. So there are actually three choices to vote on. The first option, called a party of legislators, will be put in place. The second proposal from the committee is to move to the next sessional week, after removing all the inadequacies that arise in this regulation. And the third option that I would suggest is that I want you to listen to it, if there is no other option, then vote with the changes that were proposed by Volodymyr Stretovich, replacing the representatives of the Russian and Celestine factions with Shevchenko and Maruschenko, and instead of Stretovich, writing down the name of Sovkovic and removing the articles that the committee considers to be inappropriate in this regulation. The name of the minister and the suspension of his duties. So let's say that I would vote first on the basis of the project itself, and then we would vote on changes or proposals. Please vote on the basis. Based on the base. There's a vote coming. [[10:59:11]] For 234 As a basis, 234. Please, by the factions. 178 – Party of Regions, Timoshenko – 17, Block of Timoshenko – 17, Our Ukraine – 2, STI – 15, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 1. Now, let's talk about change. I ask you to remove a reference from this text to remove the minister from the obligations that are manifestly invalid in our document and in paragraph 1 also instead of a separate item. Let's say in the first paragraph: create a temporary commission of inquiry for the verification of corruption, the abuse of the office of individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and beyond. So to write it down, I'm asking you to support this proposal. Here comes the first vote, wait for the first point. Please be supportive. [[11:00:24]] For-127 The proposal is not supported. Then, at the second point, instead of Sovkovich, write down the name Husarov, a deputy. So I understand the offer was. What was the offer? Kushnarov? Give me Kushnarov's microphone. Kushnarov can't because he's head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u82	Turn it on, please. Alexander Alexanderovich, I gave an example to Gusarov to convince us that he was a member of another commission, we brought him out, for him, instead of Matthew, and Sevkovic, really was on the Board of Rippers, but he wrote an application for an exit from that commission and that's why he's free to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u83	Then I'll shoot this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u84	Oh, about the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u85	Right!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u86	“Our Ukraine”, let's count them, because they've been driving us for three weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u87	Okay. In the fourth paragraph, a proposal was made, a six - month deadline for the commission of inquiry, and Alexander Stoyan, two months. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please. [[11:01:34]] For 254 A decision has been made. And we had a proposal, a 6-point off the text, because it's not, to some extent, based literally on today. We cannot draw such conclusions from the publication. I am voting for the removal of this paragraph from the draft regulation. Please. [[11:02:08]] For-123 I put it to a vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u88	No, no, even after "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u89	Aah! In our Ukraine, I'm sorry. Instead of the names Shevchenko, Maruschenko, MPs put Ruzicki and Kelestin. I'll bet you a vote. Actually, it's a norm, it's a right, it's their decision. I'll put it to a vote. This is a change in the project that is being submitted to your consideration. [[11:02:41]] For 261 Decision taken. I'm putting this whole project to a vote. [[11:03:03:03]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 23, “Our Ukraine” – 3, SPI – 0, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 3. A draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliamentaryly accompany the implementation of basic agreements on the temporary stay of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation in Ukraine is under consideration. And the registration number for this document 2376. Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, the subject of the legislative initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u90	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliamentaryly accompany the implementation of the basic agreements on the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The temporary presence of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and its mandatory withdrawal until 2017 have a significant impact on the current situation in Ukraine and are to be considered in a political, international legal, socio-economic, humanitarian, environmental, defence, migration plane. However, regardless of the relevance of the problem, the comprehensive study of the situation, the assessment of the benefits and the possible negative consequences, the development of proposals for necessary decisions at the state and parliamentary levels is not enough. By the end of 2005, and in early 2006, the government had issued orders number fifty - five. 555-R and Decree 246 on asset management used by the Black Sea fleet of the former USSR and its inventory. But now this job is going more slowly. All of this causes a lack of government control over the use of government property, resulting in significant material and moral damage. No steps are being taken to phase out the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation from the territory of our country within the terms of the treaty. The fact that the Black Sea fleet has historically acted as a urban factor in relation to Sevastopol and a number of other locations, a large part of which are closely linked to its activities and services. That is why state decisions and programs are needed to progressively separate urban infrastructure from the military garrisons of the Russian Federation and ensure their autonomous functioning. The main basis for the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council is the following. A number of basic agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the whereabouts of the Black Sea Russian Federation fleet in Ukraine and their implementation in particular do not correspond to national interests today and need clarification. According to the agreements, land and real estate are transferred to the Russian side exclusively to ensure the functioning of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation. But while the fleet’s fleet has been reduced by nearly 10 times during this time, in early 1992, 373 ships are now based near Ukrainian docks in just 35 units. The liberated property complexes of Ukraine do not return. The existence of such objects that are not used for the purpose is evidenced by the suborndance. Although it seems to have been canceled, there is no need for land or property to be returned. The takeover by the Black Sea Fleet of land, aquatoria, property complexes and other funds, with very low data, is 75 land areas of more than 150 hectares. 86 objects are used free of charge. No action is taken to remove them or legalize the lease. For several years, the government has shown the inability to repossess even property recognized by the court as being held by the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation illegally. So far, there are no leases on land for real estate and property used by the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation, or they are not documented in Russia’s lease. Their state of affairs is not effectively controlled by the authorities. Yes, marine hydrotechnological facilities do not have long-term regulatory engineering tests to determine their state of the art and perform the necessary repairs that lead to their gradual destruction, have a place to change their functional design, construction, reconstruction, and so on. The lack of an expert valuation of government property and the corresponding undetermined amount of rent. So called, the rent fee is only $97 million a year, and those are a loan for gas debts, not only do they not correspond to the world price practice, but they are not at all supported by lease agreements. For example. The Russian Federation pays $115 million a year for renting the Baikonur Cosmodrome. You can't compare one territory to another. The Russian Federation Navy Command, in breach of basic ship transfer agreements, took a course to upgrade the Black Sea Navy's fighting potential by replacing obsolete weapons with new, more powerful specimens and old ships with more modern ones. That's how the replacement of U.S. Navy aircraft from T.U.17 on the S.S.-24 nuclear weapon carrier was made. There's a rocket ship in our territory on the Samum airbag, the Picculus seaman. A similar situation took place around the territory of Ukraine of a small alien ship, which is located in the permanent location of Novorosian, although according to the existing order of permits for foreign warships to enter inland waters for raids and ports of Ukraine are granted by diplomatic channels. The simplified order is intended only for ships and vessels of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, temporarily located in Ukraine. And another problem. A large number of members of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation are released to their reserve every year and remain in Ukraine. That's right. SND States Parties Agreement of 15.05. In 92, they receive an average pension of 2.5 or 3 dollars from our State’s budget on pensions, government insurance, and family members. It seems appropriate to study the relevance of negotiations on appropriate compensation for these expenses by the Russian Federation. The prospects for land use, coves and coastal infrastructure facilities need to be identified: transport, military, local self - government, and so on. Until now, there is no mechanism for implementing inter-government contracts in part of compensation to local budgets of Sevastopol, other population centres at the cost point of their military presence in the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, resulting in annual costs for infrastructure maintenance, social, municipal health care, other services of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, members of their families at the expense of the National Budget of Ukraine, which amounts to approximately 47 million. Each year. There are unique facts of violations by the Russian side of environmental legislation that threaten the emergence of extraordinary situations that require an immediate assessment of the environmental situation and the development of a coherent programme, appropriate joint measures aimed at preserving the ecosystem and preventing pollution at the sites of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. The main objective of the creation of a temporary special commission is parliamentary control, the development of recommendations to the Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the solution of the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and the relevant normative acts on the compliance of the individual provisions of the basic agreements under the Black Sea Constitution and the national interests of the State, the status of implementation of the basic agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the related activities of the authorities of the State executive and local self-government, the possibilities and conditions and the order of withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation from Ukraine after the end of the term of residence. The main tasks are to analyse the implementation of the signed inter-State agreements on the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and their respective national interests, to study the activities of the government structures of the local self-government authorities on the control of land, water resources, real estate, coastal infrastructure, functional integration in the use of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, compliance with environmental law and the state of mutual accounts, the determination of the census and the scope of the arms, the assets that are subject to phase-out from the territory of Ukraine in the light of the gradual introduction, repositioning of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation by May 2017 and the necessary time. Preparation of the report. It's a job. The adoption of a draft regulation does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The composition of the commission for your consideration is in agreement with the leaders of all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, I believe, as a last resort, that in order to complete all the total speculation that exists on different sides of this problem, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must create a commission to accompany, for the parliamentary escort to the implementation of the basic agreements for the temporary stay of the Russian Federation fleet in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u91	Sign up for a question, five minutes. As long as the record goes. Váchaslav Stanislavovich, may I ask? The content of what you've proposed would be better to rename the decision to create a permanent committee of the Supreme Council on matters of the Black Sea fleet. For five years, the work of a commission that will do everything is controlled. No one doubts the need for control, but for five years to create -- it's just some nonsense. We don't have enough committees and people on the committees to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u92	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I'm looking at the composition of the commission, which includes the national deputies of Ukraine Graz, Udovenko, School, Kalashnikov, Petruk Mikola Mikolaiovich, I think he's going to be able to work out this commission in two months and make a recommendation. It's not that we have to control something for five years. We're talking about parliamentary support and identification of some recommendations that the commission has to work on and give to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u93	All right. I got it. But the regulation states “no less than once during each session to report”. Is that what I read?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u94	Alexander Alexanderovich, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who will report, will make the necessary changes, and we are ready to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u95	Bulba Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u96	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I'm talking. But I also drew attention to the composition of the drafters of the bill by their names, and they really want our relationship with Russia to be stable, long-lasting and promising for Ukraine. But I have such doubts about this. Here's the decision to create a commission, and I'm sure it's going to increase the tension between our big neighbor, who doesn't say anything. And let's say it's strange to me that yesterday we were looking at the National Security and Defence Committee, which is amazing how we can target 11 years before the Russian Navy's expiration date to ask about how the Black Sea fleet's exit order is going to be, how we can determine how many weapons we need to export are going to output.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u97	Thank you, Stepan Stepanovich, for asking and thank you for your support in part of what you have really appreciated to be the composition of the commission as one who can carry out the mission that, if the Supreme Council takes the decision, will be put on it. Indeed, the composition of the commission is that it will carry out any mission. And even in a proportional way, the parity that is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is preserved there. It's not about any new speculation about the problem, it's about society and you and me as Ukrainian national deputies getting objective information from our colleagues. Because like you, I've probably heard so much talk about evaluation, like, a hectare of market land and other things. Well, let's put it at that point. And that's exactly what you're saying, that will help, including maintaining friendly, normal, parity relations with the Russian Federation, if we know honestly, normally this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u98	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u99	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Viacheslav Stanislavovich, with the parliamentary and presidential authorities of the country, the parliamentary escort is clearly necessary for each case. However, this is my question. Do you think that the bilateral relationship between Ukraine and Russia could be worsened if such a commission carefully, carefully, studied the matter with the State’s approach to protecting national interests? Do you believe that the dignity of the Chief of the Supreme Council of Frost and the Anti-Crist Coalition, the dignity of the government of Yanukovic, which is very detailed, without politics, but only from the point of view of mutual benefit are they studying this issue? If we ask the question of lowering relations through such a commission, do we not demean such national dignity, the parliamentary dignity of the whole country?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u100	Thank you, Lilia Stepanova, for asking. Well, I've already told you, I'm going to be a little bit wider now, I guess I'll answer that question. Because the parity that is now on the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also preserved in the majority and part of the minority in the commission. So no decisions can be taken by the commission, because all decisions are taken by vote. Some wrong, foolish decisions cannot be made. Including, it can't even be said that Ukraine is going to, well, some kind of confrontational principle to offer on a relationship with the Russian Federation. It's about the parliamentary co-existence of those basic agreements that we've all been listening to, well, I don't know, at least five years about something going wrong, and there's some t-shirts, and there's some bases, and there's a student fraternity and stuff. So maybe we're with this, Ukrainian national deputies, create a commission, try to figure out and report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I don't think it's humiliating anyone, any figure in the state, any figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u101	Lilia Stepanovna, I take advantage of the right to repulsion, I didn't know it was a decision to protect the authority of the Supreme Council, we're discussing another issue. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u102	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Viacheslav Stanislavovich, I personally find the political will of the decision to form such a commission unquestionably unquestionable, for the temporary presence of the fleet in Ukraine by 2017 is clearly regulated by the intergovernmental agreements that have been ratified here in this sessionary hall. You see, the artificial oppression of passions around the fleet always has specific authors among certain political forces. As soon as the situation in the country stabilizes, the socio-economic situation, immediately, or language is introduced into the hall, or the UN-OPA, or the fleet. And I have a question for you, specifically, for a man as a soldier. It's like a former sailor. Please tell me, wouldn't it be better for us to increase funding for our Ukrainian Black Sea fleet? And do you think we can today, Ukraine, protect our southern sea borders. by one submersible ship called the Zaporozhye, which without batteries and other metal scrap?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u103	Mr. Jaroslav, if you're addressing me as a former sailor, I'm a former tanker. Well, it's just that you understand. I wasn't swimming, I was going to the dance. That's one question. The second question, if you're talking about what you've raised, is it necessary, for example, to increase the financing of our Black Sea Ukrainian fleet? Absolutely. So maybe when we analyze the composition of the basic contracts, we'll find the funds to add those funds to the financing of the Black Sea fleet of Ukraine? As for the stability of the situation in the state, I'd like it to be so, but, God forbid it happens and we all get the satisfaction of our work with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u104	Thank you, sit down. We're already enjoying ourselves. Please, Šibko Vitaly Jakovitch from the committee. Thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u105	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! I want to apologize to the Assembly because this question was only considered yesterday and we finished his discussion late yesterday. So you have a draft decision, not the one that was already changed at our committee meeting, but the one that the authors proposed. I want to say that this discussion was not easy, and as a result of the discussion, we have achieved the following: that the second paragraph should not be the way it is now presented to you, but that it should be put out as follows: “The temporary special commission is formed with a view to analysing the status of the contractual base between Ukraine and the Russian Federation since 1997 on the conditions of the Russian Federation’s CFC in Ukraine. I mean, I want to calm down right now that it's not about someone being analyzed, done, done, or trying to get on board some Russian Federation military ship there, watching it happen. It's just that this commission is going to sit down and look, there's some kind of contractual basis, what it foresees, and what it needs today is maybe some further reconciliation of these problems. That's the first one. And the second. Here we have noted that it is not a long - term commission but was written in paragraph five: a temporary special commission to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the results of its activities by February 1, 2007. So it's going to work at one moment, at the same time, it's going to complete its research on the very agreements that exist on this ground, and a report will be made to the Supreme Council. Then the Supreme Council will determine how to proceed, whether to further strengthen the need for a contractual basis or even cancel the need. I want to say that the decision was taken at the committee meeting by majority, nine votes in favour, three abstentions, one against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u106	No questions to Vitali Yakovitch? None. It's a quick report. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Five minutes. Is there no need? There's a need. Please sign up, five minutes. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u107	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that the committee really addressed this issue, and the main problems and reasons behind the establishment of such a committee were outlined. Unfortunately, very often, when the issues are acute, our officials and the Ukrainian Ministry, including, and those who have to control the implementation of contracts, are referred to as not letting them go somewhere, something they didn't see, something they didn't know. And the parliamentary commission will have the objectivity that no official has. Because it will be composed of representatives of various political forces and factions, and, I think, it will act objectively and in due course. I think that the time frame is absolutely enough to determine how a higher legislature can help in this situation. And what was the problem so far with this process going only to the political level, not to the legislative level. So I think we need to support the creation of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u109	Zybenko, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u110	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u111	Thank you. The Communist faction. Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the development of events has convinced me more and more that for many politicians, wickedness is a guiding trait. But it's not as much as it's sometimes shown. Today, the author of the draft decree showed concern about some issues that might not have been settled. Dear colleagues, let's stop being mean, because this concern and we understand it very well is that we're worried about someone else. They're worried about improving relations with our northern neighbour, they're worried about having a normal dialogue between nations. So that must be the truth. I want to point out that the Communist faction will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u112	Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not personally vote in favour of this decision, and I urge everyone to do the same for several reasons, reasoning. You see, we're gradually turning Parliament into an FSB, the integrity of the commission of inquiry. And what's interesting is that the commissions in question are starting to come up just when you and I have a budget, a WTO, when we have land reform, a polytreform, and we want to track things down and do things that we don't know. In addition to everything else, I think that any social system is starting to procrastinate when everyone's doing everything. The foreign policy, the defence policy, is the prerogative of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Who and why are we going in there?Oh, my God! It seems to me that in this case, if there really is a State's desire and political will to verify what is going on there, it is not necessary to politicize. We do not need to be misled and told that the interim parliamentary commission of inquiry will not act by political means. This is done to increase the tension between us and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u114	Thank you. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u115	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to the Ukrainian national deputy from Sevastopol to John Vernidub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u116	Please, Verni Dubov, sailor?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Vernidoubov. Areas. Indeed, if the question of the need for the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry of the two previous committees does not raise any doubts about the creation of a commission, as the rapporteur said, for a comprehensive study of the situation, or as stated in the draft decree, for the parliamentary co-existence of the implementation of basic agreements, it does not completely convince. Are there not enough ministries, committees, and authorities in the state to deal with these issues in a competent manner? There is a special two-way commission between the state and the Committee on Defence and National Security, which, among other things, suggested that the matter be postponed yesterday. So I think that according to our rules, and the rules are that special commissions are created for preparation and preliminary consideration before.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Your opinion is clear. She's a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! This year we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the signing and ratification of several treaties relating to the temporary stay of the Russian Navy. For a time now, there are many misunderstandings, many unnecessary discussions. It seems to me that this commission should facilitate understanding between Ukraine and Russia. Russia continues to be our strategic partner and there is nothing wrong with the fact that it is the Supreme Council that will see how these problems are being implemented. We know very well that all the laws we have ratified here in the Supreme Council are not being implemented. What the ministries, the authorities, let them do and we'll bring them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u120	Thank you. All who wanted to have a part in the discussion took part. There is a coalition of such, more faithful, not a colossal, but a matter to be settled. There is a project initiated by initiators, entities of the legislative initiative, and there are proposals by a professional committee that support the initiator and are proposals separate from the content of the document. By the way, I'm going to read a proposal from the Party of the Regions, and they're going to propose that we recognize the term of the Special Commission three months from the date of adoption of this decision, and that we choose the head of the Verni Dubov commission as a specialist. But the detail here is that three months is also foreseen by the profile committee, and by February 1st, that's exactly what the report is, and that's exactly what it's going to be. Nevertheless, I'm voting on the draft decree as a basis, and then we're voting on additions and clarifications. [[11:32:00]] For-170. Decision taken. Because this procedure is defined by the Rules for the Establishment of a Commission. I put to the vote the drafting of the committee on the second item, which is that the temporary special committee is formed with a view to analysing the status of the contractual base between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Sorry, we voted on the basis, but because it's not a commission of inquiry, it's a special one, it needs 226 votes. Thus, no decision is taken. A draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" is being considered in February 2007 for Natalia Volodymyrna Prokopovich to report on this issue. [[with the agenda: "On the state of implementation of the Plan of Action "Ukraine - EU"]] The committee supports this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed in March 2007 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation "On the Day of the Government of Ukraine". [[with the agenda: "For the state of implementation of the Plan of Action "Ukraine-EU"]] The draft decree is designed by the national deputies Prokopovich, Shevchuk, Supper, Samofalov, Sivulski, and others. Government Day is proposed to be held on March 13, 2007. The Professional Committee, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting on 1 November 2006, reviewed the draft regulation and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The issue of preparing a new, reinforced agreement to replace partnership and cooperation agreements is at the top of the agenda for Ukraine-EU today. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement expires in early 2008, and in 2007 the three-year deadline for Ukraine-EU action plan ends. Ukraine-EU action plan has established a comprehensive list of priorities both within and outside the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. Thus, Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union within the framework of the action plan of Ukraine-EU covers political dialogue, cooperation in foreign policy and security, promoting economic and social reforms, cooperation in justice and internal affairs, sectoral cooperation, transport, energy, the environment, information society, development of human contacts, namely science, education, education, culture, cross-border cooperation, health. Ukraine follows from the fact that the implementation of the document contributes to enhanced cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in the context of enlargement, creating the necessary conditions for the future to move to a qualitatively new level of relations with the EU. The proper implementation of the plan enables Ukraine to gradually integrate into the EU internal market and to intensify negotiations with the EU on the free trade area. The ultimate political objective of the action plan is to make a new reinforced agreement with the EU, as the action plan itself has created a framework for developing the relationship between Ukraine and the enlargement of the EU only for a short period of time. So Ukraine's conclusion is that the next logical step after Ukraine's successful action plan is to develop a European Union long-term strategy for relations with our nation that will set a clear European perspective for it. Ukraine's progress in implementing the political priorities of the action plan will also be crucial for the EU's decision on the form and meaningful completion of the new core agreement. The Government's Day will allow an analysis of the results of the implementation of Ukraine-EU action plan and to produce and generalise proposals on the content of the new agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The adoption of a draft decision does not require further losses from the State budget of Ukraine. People's deputies, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u122	I hope you don't have any questions about that? None. Have a seat, please. Thank you for the report. And I want to point out that your project is in exchange for this project. There is nothing obvious to discuss here, the procedural issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the government for March of the month of hearing information about the state of implementation of the Ukrainian-EU action plan. I'm voting on this proposal. It's a draft decision. [[11:37:21]] For 375 Decision taken. Thank you. Under the second reading procedure, the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code, registration number 0903, is being considered. [[on the harmonization of standards with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code]] Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Eugene Volodymyrovich Korniychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u123	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of Legal Policy on the Implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 12.01.2005 has carried out work on the second reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to harmonize its rules with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Entered by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 0903 of 25.05 2006. The bill is intended to resolve the differences between certain provisions of the family and civil codes and to resolve disputes between the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Family Code adopted by the Supreme Council on January 10, 2002. Based on the fact that family law is closely linked to other areas of law, such as civil law, bringing Ukraine’s Family Code into line with the rules of the Civil Code is a necessary and important step towards bringing legislation into line with their proper implementation. Therefore, a working group was set up with the participation of the staff of the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and members of the Committee on Legal Policy to further and thorough the drafting of the bill. In the process of working and meeting the working group, a number of issues and differences were addressed in the existing bills, which are the main ones. The law name has been changed. A new amendment to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Family and Civil Code. Secondly, the normalization of the state register of civil status acts and the order of change in the name of a natural person. It was from this bill that two articles of the Civil Code were amended. Article 49 and Article 295. And it's not going to be a separate new law, as provided for by the bill -- registration number 0908. In connection with the statement, at its meeting on October 10, 2006, the minutes of the meeting of the Committee No. 9, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code and Civil Code by withdrawing the draft Act on Change of the Name of the Person, which is fully incorporated in articles 49 and 295 of the Bill. [[Registration number 0903]] [[Registration number 0908]] [[Registration number 0903]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u124	Thank you for the report. We're working on the second reading procedure. So I'm talking to the authors of those amendments that aren't included. If they insist on voting, I'll put them to a vote if there's such an offer from the authors. So the first unaccounted for, more faithfully, rejected amendment number 6, made by Deputy Bespali. Does he insist on voting on this amendment? No, it doesn't. Rejected Amendment 8 by Deputy Pecklusenko It's justified. Alexander Mikolayovich doesn't insist? No, it doesn't. Similarly, the 9th amendment made by the Deputy Plástinski was rejected. And Vladimir Mikhailovich I see also does not insist. 10 Amendment of Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich. He does not insist, for he is no longer a member of the Supreme Council. Others are counted. Rejected Amendment 13 by Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko He doesn't insist on it either. And so are 14 amendments. And so far, according to the project, the content of the law is all taken into account. The 26 amendments rejected, the Incorruptible Author, does not insist on voting either. Partly included is the 29th amendment of Ruslan Knyazevich, but since it is counted, he agrees to show that it is. A rejected amendment, once again, Hellhound 38, but there is an explanation, and he agreed with them why it was done. A rejected amendment and 40 with the same result, and 41, and 42, 43. However, the author of the amendments agreed with the grounds for rejecting the amendments. The 54 Plastinski Amendment rejected, and it does not insist on it either. Partly included is the 56th Amendment of Bespalogo, where he introduced a category of stepmothers, stepfathers, etc. It's partially accounted for. And the 70th Amendment, which Platinum insisted that the adoption of a child over five years of age would take time. This amendment is rejected because it is otherwise written in the codex. All the other amendments are included. Thus it can be said that of the 86 amendments, almost all are included, and today the Family Code will have refinements that arise from the realities of the day when disputes arise, especially property, divorce, and so forth. I think the authors of the legislative initiative and the committee have done a very good job here. And if there is no objection, I have good reason to vote on this bill, taking into account the amendments adopted in the second reading and in general as a law. So I'm betting on the voting project, registration number 0903. One second. You don't have an amendment, do you? Please, Carpachov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u125	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! We are now considering amendments to the Family Code in order to bring it into line with the Civil Code. I want to point out that a few years ago, we first made changes to this Family Code, which had not yet been done. I was the author of the entire chapter of this codex here. And what I want to say is that, as an authorized human rights officer in the context of the amendments to the Family Code, I have had a very large number of comments and suggestions from Ukrainian citizens who had a limited, unfortunately, opportunity to read a new edition of these changes. And so, Alexandre Alexandrovich, there are a lot of these changes and suggestions, and I can read them now, but this is actually going to be a new additional change. I would very much like to consider the proposals of the citizens of our state, allow them to work for another week and move this vote back to second reading. I ask you very much to support, taking into account many of the numerous appeals made by Ukrainian citizens. If I have to, I'm ready to base it on everyone right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u126	Nina Ivanovna, there's a procedure, and I suggest you use it: we are now adopting this law in the second reading, finally, because the profile committee and all the deputies who made the proposals were seriously working on it. And as the subject of the legislative initiative to supplement it, we will re-vote it, with details, with your clarifications. These will be new changes, but this does not deny the need to improve today’s law. The President will sign it in two weeks. And two more weeks from now, we're going to do the supplement, and he's going to sign it again, and that's going to be okay. But this project now, with these editorial changes that have been introduced, 86 amendments, is much more accurate to meet the needs of society. I would ask that we support it this way -- in the second reading and final reading, and the citizens who make the proposals, and you process them, and you introduce them as a legislative initiative, we'll take these proposals into account. So I put it in second reading and in general. Please, there's a vote. [[11:47:28]] For 212 There's not enough voices. The proposal was to move to the next sessional week of voting on this subject. I'm voting on this proposal. For the second reading again, yes. [[11:47:51]] For 385 This decision is supported, 385 votes, but once again, for the next plenary week, move all of these proposals. The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Oh, no, I'm sorry, I've still missed the motion to take off. concerning the rejection of Law 09. I'm sorry, I was wrong. 0908 pro. The draft Law on Change in the Name of a Person, and the reporter for this said, recommends that the matter be withdrawn. I realized that no one insisted on leaving him. That's why I'm putting to the vote the removal of the draft Law on Change of Personality, 0908 editorial. I'm betting on the vote. [[11:49:19]] For 390 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy for the Prevention of Alcoholism in Ukraine is under consideration. The reporter is Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. Please. First Deputy Head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear fellow national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council's decision to withdraw the draft Ukrainian Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy for the Prevention of Alcoholism in Ukraine. The story of the question looks like this. The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood considered in a second reading this bill, which was adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council in 2005, without consideration, by the then decision of the Health Committee on its rejection. Further developments in the situation look like this. Without a doubt, respectable colleagues, alcohol, and problems associated with their use are, and are, unfortunately, extremely relevant to our society. Alcohol and drugs and their use are known to be complex social phenomena that require a comprehensive, comprehensive response from the whole society. The attitude toward these issues, however, is still fashionable in Ukraine. That's what our society is at the surface of, and our efforts to build legislative protection against this problem and lose. By simplifying the subject, we are not only contradicting the content of the social challenge itself, which is a drug problem, but we are not actually contributing to the solution. One of the most common ways to limit the availability of alcohol is to license both their production and sales, as well as to use new technologies to create low-cost and high-quality alcoholic beverages. More than 40 countries use one or more licensing systems. In addition to such systems, restrictions are often imposed on hours, days, for the sale of alcoholic beverages. You may have seen such phenomena in many countries. In a number of countries, the system of markings and restrictions is very well organized. However, laws designed to reduce the availability of alcoholic beverages do not always apply. Similarly, in Ukraine these laws are being enforced improperly. I will briefly stop at the characteristic of the bill. His explanatory note notes that his aim is to protect the health of the population from the harmful effects of alcohol use and to create legal conditions for the implementation of State policy to prevent alcoholism in Ukraine. At the same time, the analysis of the bill showed that the title of the bill did not correspond directly to its contents, and most of the provisions of the bill, including those that define terminology in the field of State regulation of the production and circulation of alcoholic beverages, set restrictions on the field of sales, advertising, consumption of alcoholic beverages, set out the conditions for informing the population about the harmful use of alcoholic beverages and the order in which scientific research is carried out in the field of prevention of alcoholism, and provide for the principles for the conduct of anti-alcoholic education and education to be regulated by other laws, namely: the Law on State regulation of production and circulation of alcohol in the field of ethyl, equine, fruit, alcohol and tobacco; the Law on advertising; the Law on the development of television and radiological education; Thus, by interfering with the scope of the Laws, the Law is in conflict with these Laws. And if this bill is adopted as the Law, it will lead to a series of separate legislative rules that will have a negative impact on the regulation of the circulation of alcohol in Ukraine and on the implementation of existing laws. At the same time, the bill does not define the basic term alcoholism. Today, this concept is out - of - date and is more used in everyday language. The international classification of diseases in the world and in Ukraine, as reached in the 10th review, does not contain such terminology. In addition, individual legislation sets out measures to protect the health of the population, especially minors from the harmful effects of alcohol use, social adaptation and rehabilitation of patients with alcoholism, and provides for, for example, respectable colleagues, the creation of protective services, and financial support for alcoholism, which are of a declarative nature, because they are unacceptable, not only because of their economic indiscretion, but also because of their ambiguous interpretation of their formulation, their credentials. Other provisions of the bill make it impossible for them to exercise their powers by duplicating, disagreeing with each other’s rules of the bill. The Committee considers that the majority of subjects affected by the legislative initiative are fully governed by the laws of Ukraine. Unfortunately, so far, according to an expert assessment by Ukraine, Ukraine is in the fight against the spread of alcoholism and drugs, so far we are paying more attention to purely repressive forms of work that are mainly effective in resisting illegal, criminal structures. And unwarranted and excessive expectations of overcoming the consequences of drug and alcohol use, namely crime and medical consequences, are strengthened. As a result, excessive responsibility for changing the drug situation has traditionally relied solely on the power structures or health facilities that, in a fully balanced system of opposition, should be only fragments according to the basic scope of work. At the same time, the creation of a system of real warning on drug and alcohol issues, including prevention of drug abuse, prevention and rehabilitation of social services, is largely out of the question, both at the state and local levels, by the way, in this bill as well. According to the chief drug expert of the Ministry of Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine have developed a government draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of State Policy on Alcohol and Drugs, which will allow for the establishment of a foundation for a balanced, modern and world-based approach to drugs. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of part two of article 90 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, withdraw the bill from consideration and reject as such that it has lost some of its relevance, on the basis of the reasons set out in the bill, and most importantly, that it does not correspond to the realities of today, the current level of European law, the modern Ukrainian legal system, and the rules governing the circulation of alcohol production and the protection of the rights of persons with alcohol problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to add a few words to the above. The idea of the bill, noble and relevant, remains that way at all times and is likely to remain that way in Ukraine for a long time. The other thing that was introduced by the bill by the two deputies of the previous call, Mr. Sittina and Vasiliev, was actually, before the election campaign, strongly supported by the session hall, despite the fact that our committee asked to send him to work. The thing is, we could strongly support this bill in our second reading, but does it fit the parliamentary-presidential country to produce laws that we cannot enforce ourselves? We could support it, but we have an example of a well-known hunchback story where prohibitions, prohibitions and prohibitions have brought nothing but negative, economic, and social consequences. That's why we stand on the point that Parliament, the 21st century Ukrainian Parliament, should issue high-quality, highly professional legislation that addresses problems and can be implemented in Ukraine. We don't have the right to allow ourselves, especially because there is a very difficult and difficult alcohol situation in Ukraine. And a bill prepared by the government and the Ministry of Health that I have just named as being submitted to the Supreme Council, and I assure you that the report of the Supreme Council on health issues will be a legislative act of a European professional model that will enable our Supreme Council to unlock this situation at all levels, not just medical or criminal repression. I ask my fellow Members to deal with the understanding that the committee is absolutely giving due consideration to what we have a global problem, and we cannot afford some kind of discount or non-professional card proposed for the status of the bill to respond to such an urgent social problem. The committee proposes to reject the legislative act. We tried to make him into a second reading something like that. Believe me, my friends, when this low quality of the bill, which is being proposed in an aboriginal electoral regime, I assure you, even the most professional lawyers have failed to deal with the idea of what can be called a bill that will later become law that will take effect. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Because the question is clear, and the initiatives on questions do not arise here. Before the vote, all I want to do is propose. Take a close look at the draft decision that was made, for the project that was adopted in the first reading was obviously not prepared by lawyers, and it does not provide any answer to a problem that really exists. So we'll expect the committee to be careful about the project that the Cabinet of Ministers is preparing. And we're going to be looking at this document soon. And now I'm putting to the vote the draft decree, the editorial number or the registration number 0917-p on the removal from the draft law on the basic principles of public policy, the prevention of alcoholism. Please be supportive. [[12:00:36]] For 383 There's a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u129	We continue to discuss the question of the election and release of judges. Please, where's the head of the committee? Yes, since there are no yet heads of the Justice Committee, let's consider question 0940, the draft Law on the Functioning of the Fuel and Energy Complex during a Special Period, please, Panasovski Oleg Grigorovich. [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u130	I'm afraid no one will vote. Dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to Bill No. 0940 on the operation of the heating and energy complex during a special period. The bill was reviewed, discussed and adopted in the first reading by the previous Parliament last December. In view of the fact that the main technological equipment of the energy sector of the economy belongs to the mobilization capacity class and that the heating and energy facilities have construction value. This bill was not part of the existing legislative field, and some provisions of the law were needed. In accordance with the existing rules, with laws, regulations, a clear indication of the place of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in the management system of the TEC during a special period. At present, almost all issues have been resolved, proposals and amendments made by the people's deputies adopted and taken into account. It is important to note the legislative framework and orientation of the bill. The draft law seeks to establish legal and institutional conditions for the operation of the fuel and energy complex during a special period, covering enterprises, institutions and organizations of electricity and nuclear, coal and petroleum complexes, irrespective of the form of ownership. The relationship related to the operation of the fuel and energy complex during a special period is governed by the Ukrainian Defence Act, the Basic Law, the Civil Defence of Ukraine, the Mobilization Training and Mobilization Act, the Electricity Act, the Oil and Gas Act, the Mining Act. The bill before you, registration number 940, takes into account all aspects of the activities and interactions of enterprises and public sector organizations, defines their functioning and interaction with the executive authorities of the public administrations. We express our gratitude to all the people's deputies, regardless of their political beliefs and factions, for the amendments made and the valuable proposals made. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, draft Law 940 was introduced for consideration under the second reading procedure. This bill is supported by Mintopenergo. The Technology, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security Profile Committee recommends the adoption of the project as a whole. On the basis, all comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office have been taken into account and removed, recommendations have been implemented, amendments and proposals received from the People's Deputies have been taken into account and accepted. People's deputies are requested to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I am addressing MPs who have made their amendments and they have been rejected. First amendment, National Deputy Calchenko does not insist. Fourth Calchenka, don't insist. Yes, all the other amendments are included. For reasons, please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u132	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" Block. The honourable reporter said very well about taking into account the amendments or observations made by the Scientific and Expert Administration, but he spoke somehow about the observation made by the General Legal Office, which pointed to the two positions of the proposed legislation that conflicted with the Constitution of Ukraine. It seems to me that such remarks should not be ignored and in view of this, I urge you to refer this bill to a second reading again so that the violations of the Constitution of this law are removed, or else these things will be noticed, it will be returned to the Supreme Council with appropriate observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u133	This is mainly the case with regard to the restrictions on human constitutional rights and freedoms. I want to tell you, this is my opinion as to your concern about restrictions on rights and forced labour. In a bad hour, when Homeland is in danger, the leadership of the country is forced and obliged, on the basis of circumstances, to take any action, up to a temporary derogation from democratic norms, in order to save the Fatherland and the nation. And he who served in the army knows that because of the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces, apart from the construction statute, the Charter of the Civil Service, have a disciplinary charter that is far from democratic, must do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u134	Yeah, right. The truth here is that the fuel-energy complex is governed by slightly different laws than the disciplinary charter for the Ministry of Defence. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law on the operation of a fuel-energy complex in a special period. Registration No. 0940. Please vote. [[12:36:53]] For 246 The law is passed. Yes, please, the head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, on the election and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 25 October 2006 considered the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, to elect judges of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, appeals and local courts on an indefinite basis. The Committee has supported these submissions and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect the judges in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of October 26, 2006, issued to you on 2415. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the procedure that has been drawn up, I'll give you the names of the judges listed in the draft ruling, if there's a warning to the candidate, then we'll remove him from the general list and go back to his consideration separately. After voting on candidates for whom there are no warnings, we take decisions on each individual. All the judges are on the balcony. When a judge’s name is read, he rises from the scene, and the national deputies ask him questions. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution 128 of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To elect judges on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Danilov Tetjan Borisovna, Shevchuk Svetlana Rostyslavovna; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Mata Alexandr Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Ozaryan Region of Opanasovna; the Court of Appeal of the Province of Kyrovograd, Dukovsky Alexander Leontijovich; The impugned court-martial of Mosesenko Tetian Volodymyrna; the local Covellian Regional Court of Volin County of Ageyev Elizabeth Alexandrovna; the local Pavlovrad Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Melnik Volodymyr Vasilovich; the local Kalinin District Court of Donetska Svatikova Andrija Viktorovich; The local Bogotá District Court of Žitomir Grigorus Natala Josephovna, Kotica Vitalia Petrovich; the local Wesselovo District Court of Zaporozhye District of Potapov Olga Mikolayovna; the local Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye District of Bulasheva, Roman Leonidovich; the local Tokmatic District Court of Zaporozhye district of Ošatý Igor Glibovich; the local Ulyanov District Court of Kyrovograd, Titarenko Volodymyr Eduardoovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u136	Microphone Baby, please. Grigorovich. Baby, please, microphone. It's just that you haven't spoken in two days and you've even forgotten about you. It's probably not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u137	Let's shoot and then we'll look at it later. Let's shoot, let's take notes, let's shoot, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u138	Sergey Vasilovich, please take into account that the chairman is in charge of the session, not the one who is reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u139	I'm offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I propose that you remove the question of Titarenko Volodymyr Eduardoovich and discuss it separately, because there are very many claims and objections to this candidate for election without delay. In particular, I have several complaints from residents of the Ulyanov region who complain that when Mr. Titarenko worked as the head of the court, he was not glorified in good works. I also want my colleagues to point out that Mr. Titarenko has been trying to select a judge indefinitely for several years. The Council of the past did not give this opportunity, taking into account its merits in the “cages” before justice. And today I'm surprised that a person has been trying to get a judge for a few years, and today we're taking him into the hall and not paying attention to the comments he has. The area is crying, and you're here in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, come on, please. We take it off in one word that there's a denial, and then when we come up with that discussion, I'll give you a chance to make a statement. Lilia Stepanovna, so are you. I mean, then we'll talk. Let's take it. Please, go ahead, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u143	the local Kirov district court of Kirovgrad, Shilov Ludmila Mikhailnovna; the local Kyiv-Svetoshin District Court of Kiev, Dubas Tetjan Volodymyrovna; the local Krasnolutsk City Court of the Lugansk region of Navalya Taras Danilovich; the local Preval Regional Court of the Luhansk district of Timfiyev Mikhail Volodymirovich; the local Wozniesen Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Highland Galina Afanasyivna; the military local court of the Dnipropetrovsk garrison of Borzov Valerija Ivanovich; the local court of the winery district of Zalim, Igor Hennadiyovich; the local court of the Ternopil district of Šumski Ivan Petrovich; the local court of the Hmeljna district of Gladyuk Yuri Vasilovich; The local court-martial of the Chernigiv district of Knjiš Natalija Jurijivna, Fetisov Irina Arkadyivna. The committee is asking for support for this project by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u144	Yes, thank you, Sergio Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, so on. Excuse me, Korja's microphone, please turn on the BUTT. But, not the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u145	Thank you. There's an offer. In addition, a complaint came from my district to the judge of the local courts of the Chernigiv district of Fetisov Irina Arkadian. Unfortunately, during a meeting of the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u146	I'm sorry. Then you get the word. We're taking it off the general list. I'm just reminding you, you don't have a constituency right now. National constituency. Thus, with the exception of two names for the local Ulyssian district court of the Kirovograd district of Judge Titarenko and the local court of the Chernigiv district of Fetisov, I place the rest of the ruling 2415 to be elected as judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:46:06]] For 391 It's been decided. Please, I'm asking you to use the microphone of Titarenko Volodymyr Eduardoovich. Is he there? And please turn on the mic of Laška, then Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to support the election of the Titanque judge of the Ulysses Riyadh District of Kirovograd. In particular, there are some facts that we know. In 2002, he loaned a barley seed to the Shumray branch of the Burreacorradgos office for 70,000 dollars. A year later, he took two tractors, three light bulbs, and a warehouse on the farm. In 2000, the Ulyssian Court heard a case about the theft of property by a citizen named Boychayuk. To prevent the boy from being deprived of his will, Titarenko needed a truck for his parents. And a lot of other facts, in the absence of time, I won't repeat. And we can choose this person? No way. He's been walking around for years, trying to turn around, and here I want to jump on a layer. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u148	And thank you, but I urge you to use parliamentary expressions. “On a layer” is something that is not clear what that word is. Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u149	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." I want to address my colleagues from the Party of Regions, my colleagues from the faction of Communists, socialists. Dear colleagues, the dignity of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and the responsibility of our electorate will move us to resolve, not the issues on the left and on the right, but the decisions for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. To the decision on behalf of the poor peasants of the Kirovograd district of Ulyanów region who today listen to us and think: Is that justice in this Parliament or not? As early as 2001, 2000, 2003, at the time of the Prime Minister, Mr. Yanukovich, this judge was blocked by the Supreme Council Committee for the previous call for abuses that are coming out again today. I ask the committee to consider carefully all the submissions that we have not been able to submit to the committee on time in connection with the budgetary process, but I want us to serve the voters of the Ulyanov region who are listening to us today because, dear friends, we do not have the right to support and cherish such justice in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u150	Please, Marmazov. Behind him, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, well, I understand that this Titanco has prepared materials and handouts against it, and I have been handed them over because I have something to do with the Kirovgrad region. But I honestly didn't believe what was said here. Maybe they're dealing with a man. When you write that in court 50 hectares of land, where there's almost a personal convoy, where there's cars, and trucks, and tractors, and combines, and so on, and so on. I didn't believe it. I called the area. Right now, there are four judges from Kirovograd. Three of them are beautiful. They went out to Ulyanovsky district, but it's not sad, and they say it's true bribes and bandits. So please, Sergey Vasilevich, put it off now, we'll have to study these materials for you to study. Maybe there's something going on over there, but I doubt it's because the area confirmed it, and then we'll come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u152	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I don't want to protect the Ulyssian judge, I don't even know him in the face, but I want to say something else. I don't trust the words of my colleague Lalashka because he was here all over Ukraine once saying that Kluv paid $300 million to create a coalition. The Cave District Court admitted that it was slander, and it obliged Mr. Lášek to apologize. So if Mr. Lazko apologized, then he could be trusted, and that could be another slander. So I'm asking you to be so skeptical about what Mr. Lazko says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! There'll be a line. We're still here. In this case, we are discussing the judge's candidature, and therefore I am asking for this candidature, not mutual accusations. Teeth, please. It's Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! I would like us to be very careful in our statements in the Supreme Council Hall. In fact, it's about the fate of a person and here to speak, let's say, some specific facts that we're supposed to know, I think it's premature. There is a serious problem. Two views emerged. Indeed, I have the same material on the Titanque, but I do not think it is necessary to name them, not to accuse a person of anything, but simply to remove this candidature from the debate today, remove it from the vote, conduct a further examination of all the material that is objective and then resubmit it to the Supreme Council. This will be the most reasonable and, in my view, the very right option, which does not demean either the Supreme Council or the candidate for a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u156	Please, Bulba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u157	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I also want the conversation to be moved in such a calm way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u158	Please turn on the Bulba microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u159	That's how we do it, all the holy judges, and here's one. Let's just listen to him. Well, in the end, there could be actual materials for everyone, and so on. I am convinced that this candidature should be postponed for further study of all these so - called facts. But more calmly, because, after all, we are judges, we have no right to be judges. I invite you to do just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u160	Yes, please, Your Honor, let's, from each faction, have participated in the discussion, so it's clear. We'll listen to Titarenko, and then there'll be a line. Please, Titarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u161	I'm a judge of the Ulyanov District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u162	Step closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u163	I've been a judge of the Ulyanov District Court since 1990. In 2003, I finished my term as a judge, and in 2003 I received papers for the committee. For the first time, the committee had no complaints and no statements from anyone. During the consideration by the Committee of the Supreme Council of my candidature, as well as my colleague, a complaint came from the national deputy of the former vocation of Mikhail Mikhailovich Powoldski – to withdraw from consideration. After that committee, complaints followed one another. Why did this question arise? In 2003, I dealt with a criminal case involving a witness to the case by his own brother, Mikhail Mikhailovich Powoldski. The Witness did not appear three times in court. On one occasion, I spoke to him on the phone and invited him to appear because the defendant felt that the matter could not be concluded without the questioning of the witness. He firmly refused to appear in court. Then a decision was made to bring the witness into court. And after that, I was told by Michael Mikhailovich Floodsky that as long as he was a national deputy and because I had no money and no relatives in the Supreme Council, I would never be a judge. From that time on, all complaints began, as if they were residents of the Ulyanov region, which in most cases, if examined and looked at, printed on the computer, means that they have no reason. Thus, the Supreme Court conducted the examination by the Ukrainian judicial department, the Court of Appeal, and the Court of Appeal. There were five checks, five times I was summoned to the committee. Five minutes before the committee, according to Mikhail Mikhailovich, the nomination was made and the committee was not considered. That's what I can explain about the complaints that came and that I'm being blamed for right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u164	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Vasilovich, were there any complaints on the committee about the candidature? What is the decision of the committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u165	Adam Ivanovich, there were, uh, complaints that were filed today in the hall, here. Here I have all the documents on Titarenko, we have checked, there is an act of verification by the Council of Judges of the Kirovgrad region, there is an act of verification by the Council of Judges of the Kirovgrad region, there is an order from the judges of Ukraine, there is a decision of 25 October 2006, the decision of our committee and the conclusion that those complaints, which have been made today and distributed to the deputies, have not been confirmed. But we'll decide on that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u166	Yes, dear fellows, I suggest we take another look at the committee, let him take a closer look, analyze. Because if we don't vote, it's clear what will be the decision if we don't vote. Huh? Do you insist on voting? Who is in favour of moving the matter forward, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u167	Move, yeah. Move. [[12:57:46]] For 363
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u168	This is the answer to those who shouted "vote". Yes, please, Fetis's Irina Arkadyovna, come to the microphone. Who had any comments? I'm at Korzh's. Korja's microphone, please. I remember the line. I'll give you a line, Baby. Are you filming? You've made it clear. I mean, other colleagues don't have notes? We made a nice deal. Okay. I am voting for the election of the judge of the local court of agriculture of the region of Fetisov Irina Arcadian. [[12:58:41]] For 348 Decision taken. Yes, please, next draft of the ruling. I'll give the line. Well, give the Bat a line or he won't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u169	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleague from the Party of Regions! Of course, it's your right to trust my words or not to trust me, but on the basis of mistrust, you can't refer to the decision of the Cave District Court in the Kluva case against me, even if for this reason that it is currently being appealed in an appeal order, it has not gained legal force. So it can't be legal proof that I'm wrong about what I said. So please be careful when you say something and read civil law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u170	Thank you. But I recommend you be careful with the tapes so they don't go bad. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u171	At its meeting on November 1, 2006, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, and the acting head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for the election of judges of appeals and local courts. The committee supported the submission and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the judges appointed in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registered at 2460 and distributed to you. The judges mentioned in this draft decree are in the guest bed. By similar procedure, I propose to consider draft Decree 2460.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u172	Please call your names.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u173	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Drall Igor Grigorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Forest Alexander Alexandrovich, Shevchenko Victoria Yuriyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd District of Borstya Vasil Semenović; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Gabriel Viktor Alexanderovich, Kalenchenko Nina Alexandrovna, Kolkolyk's Natalija Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Koval Vasil Georgievovich, Kožemjakina Alexandr Andriyovich, Titus Valentine Dmitrovna, Farina Vasil Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Gurzel Igor Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian district of Johnishchuk Anatolia Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u174	Take it easy on Ivanichtuk Widow. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u175	Donetsk’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Kolesnik Galina Anatoliyevna Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal Oniškewicz Taras Volodimirovich. Kyiv’s Court of Appeal Borisenko Irina Viktorovna Kyiv’s interdisciplinary appeal court, Gavriluk Alexander Mikolaiovich. The local Black Sea District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Bondarenko Anatolia Anatoliyovich. The local Codem district court of Odessa district of Guru Anatolia Ivanovich The local Zitomir District Administrative Court of Lithuania, Alexi Terentiyovich. Rakalovich Viktor Mikolaiovich, a local Regional Administrative Court. Sharapu Vasil Mikolaiovich, local court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Chumachenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna, the local Master’s Court of the Dnipropetrov region Ms. Svetlana Pavlovna, the committee is requesting support for this draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the ruling No. 2460 “On the election of judges on an indefinite basis, with the exception of the judges of the Court of Appeal, the Hersonian Region, the Venezuelan Anatolia Petrovic. Please vote. [[13:03:52]] For 387 Decision taken. Please invite Anatoly Petrovich Venchuk to the microphone. And please turn on the microphone of Widow Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend Sergey Vasilovich. I wrote you a letter, Sergey Vasilovich, listen to me. Mr. Kiwalov. I addressed you with a letter to the head of the committee, I received a statement as the head of the Human Rights Subcommittee, I received an appeal from a public organization in Herson, which accused Judge Ivanischuk, many charges, including personal wealth, buying expensive apartments, including in Kiev and so forth. I asked you to consider this letter without any conclusions on my part. You, I think, when you report to the Supreme Council, you should point out that you have received such information or a request. You have such a reaction to this appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u178	Yes, dear colleagues, Portnov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u179	I was just looking at Portnow's complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u180	Thank you. Port's Andrew, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! With regard to the head of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Johnishuk, which stands before us, we have indeed considered the number of complaints that have been coming over the years, have been systematized by all these complaints, and have considered them at the committee meeting yesterday. I would like to point out that none of the members of the committee voted against this judge yesterday is the first. The other one. I initiated complaints myself to the Attorney General's Office and to the Council of Judges, and to the High Council of Justice. We received positive answers about the judge. And the information that was against him in the media, he went to the court, and he turned to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court determined another jurisdiction, in general, in another area. And all the courts have won in this regard for the protection of the honor and dignity of the business reputation. Complaints about him are of an order; I can already say it candidly and organized by one of our colleagues in Parliament. We made that clear at the committee meeting yesterday. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u181	Please, Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I want to remind the people's deputies, we've rejected this candidate several times here in this session room. I want to support the position of Ukrainian National Deputy Widow. You see, the same situation was in the Zaporozhye area, when I'm sending complaints against a Fedorova to a professional committee because I'm being complained to by a judge, I'm getting an answer from the Council of Judges, and I'm getting an answer from Fedorov himself. So in this case, in this situation, I don't have any claim to Ivanischuk, I have a claim to the extent that those complaints and complaints about him are fully addressed. Then we have the opportunity to make decisions about how the Ukrainian national MPs press either the red button or the green button. Please, this is a matter for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u183	Better green. Please, Jerbrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, in fact, from the initiation of those complaints that were made against Johnishchuk Anatolia Petrovich. For two years now, we have not been able to appoint this person, for as soon as he approaches the vote, there are immediate complaints. All checked: the court's administration checked, the Supreme Court checked, the President's Secretariat checked, that is, no confirmation of the complaints that were found. What else can we talk about? All the installations that were required to verify it have already checked, but no confirmation has been found. I would ask a person not to torture and vote, because he is a worthy person who will represent and make decisions in the name of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u185	Sergei Shevchuk, then Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the best condition for a judge to be approved is the lack of any information: positive or negative, and then the question goes very easily. And in this case, I have to say that I, as a national deputy, have been approached by my fellow lawyers, by the experts in the Johnishuk case, who confirmed his high professionalism, his great experience, and his very skillful decision-making of the complicated matters themselves. So I'm not an expert, but I want to hear the thoughts of those professionals who work with Ivanichek. Please. Then Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u187	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, indeed, this situation was subject to study by us on a subcommittee on the subject of the formation of the judicial corps. We studied all the complaints carefully, including our colleague Stretovich. On all complaints, we received an answer from all the subjects of the review, namely, the Council of Judges, the Attorney General’s Office. I can say that we should follow the example of those whom we have not considered today, which we have put aside, in the example of John the Baptist, we should know how to approach objectively, where the facts are not confirmed, except for newspaper publications. And Volodymyr Stretovich, unfortunately, left the committee meeting, we would if he could see how we had discussed it livelyly for more than two hours. So I ask you to support this candidature, all the complaints studied, the answer is. As for an order, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Stratovic can then address the Attorney General's Office and the High Council of Justice in an appropriate manner, and now I ask you to support this nomination. I repeat, all complaints have been discussed there. The conclusions are positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u188	For the time being, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, in the history of the new Ukraine, there is one case where Ukrainian citizens were burned before the court, and this is one event before the Supreme Council for the activities of the Herson Court of Appeal. By repeating Mr. Marmazov's words, I can say, really corrupter and that person who in 1997 had taken $100,000 from the defendant and had done so for ten years. And as the former head of the Anti-Corruption Committee, I claim that this person has no moral right to be a judge, let him deal with another. And I want to tell my listeners in the Herson region that I, National Deputy Strtovic, have exhausted my capacity as MPs to oppose the election of Ivanischuk. The Mafia will win today, I'm sure of it. The Cossack will return to the Hersonian region, but so that the audience will know who is to blame and who is to vote in favour of this candidate. Follow the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u190	For some people, you have to explain to them what a goat-nost is. Please, Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u191	Dear National Deputies, you know, the organization I lead, the All-U.S. Public Control Organisation in the Hersonian Region, they also had some pretty serious comments about Ivanichuk's work. But I have to tell you that when there was an application and we started working, there was a pretty serious job with both the Attorney General of our organization, and with the Supreme Council of Judges, well, to tell you the truth, no fact has been confirmed. No fact, I guess in this situation where the pressure is organized, it should be looked and looked in the other direction. But at this point, I have to say that we have no observations in public control before this court in the Herson area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u192	Honorable colleagues, representatives of all factions two or three times, have spoken. So I'm stopping the discussion, because there was no question before the challenger, so there's nothing to answer. In addition to keeping the Supreme Council in mind, not one of the lively discussions on this candidature, one of the second committees, the previous call, this call was repeatedly studied by these materials, and we have now heard the opinion of the committee and members of the committee that they are recommending support for this candidature. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Ivaniščuk Anatoly Petrovich. Please vote. [[13:13:17]] For 289 Decision taken. Sergey Vasilovich, have we all been assigned?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u193	No, not all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u194	Have they all been assigned?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u195	Ah, we've assigned everyone. Dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u196	Yes. Let's welcome the newly appointed judges, and we want them to appear to us in the session room only with proposals for their transfer and promotion. Yes, please, Sergey Vasilovich. Yes. About the release of the judges. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u197	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on November 1, 2006, considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, appeals and local courts in connection with his resignation. In their statements, the judges noted that they had written them voluntarily, without outside coercion. The Justice Committee has supported the submission of the High Council of Justice and is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The relevant draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges registered under 2461 and issued to you. Is there a need to read the draft decree? This draft decree includes 41 persons. Adam Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u198	Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, have any of the national deputies warned about a candidate’s resignation? You don't? Then I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the ruling number 2461 on the release of judges in connection with the application for resignation and for other reasons. Please vote. [[13:15:30.]] For 349 Decision taken. Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich, for reporting and preparing the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u200	We are moving on to reconsidering the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plant Variety with Presidential Proposals, Registration No. 0836. Agrarian politics Minister Yuri Fedorovich Melnik will report, please. Get ready, Lollo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u201	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine returned the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Plant Rights, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March this year because of the inadequacy of individual provisions of its current legislation, which is fundamental in the relevant sphere. The President's remarks refer to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plant Variety and are summarized as follows. First. Amendments to part one of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties propose to extend the mandate of an institution that ensures the implementation of this law and is a government body of state administration. Having established that the institution is establishing a national plant rights inspectorate as its own structural unit and is tasked with monitoring the enforcement of legislation in the field of plant variety rights. This is defined in paragraphs 4, 6 of the first article of the Law. Considering that the decision on the structure of any body in the system of executives is not part of Parliament's mandate, the stated provisions of the law under consideration do not correspond to the basic law of Ukraine. Therefore, paragraphs 4 and 6 of article 9, paragraph 1, of the Law are proposed. The other one. Part of the first article 9 of the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties is also proposed to be supplemented by a provision under which the institution ensures the formation of targeted funds to promote intellectual property protection for plant varieties in Ukraine and the development of a state system for the protection of plant rights through various sources of financing. This is provided for in article 9, paragraph 1, of the draft law, paragraph 16, or more faithfully, of the law under consideration. This does not comply with part 8 of article 13 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which prohibits the creation of non-budgetary funds by the State authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the authorities of the local self-government and other budgetary institutions and article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sources of Financing of State Authorities, which prohibits the State authorities from creating non-budgetary funds, having non-budgetary special accounts and using the funds received for the performance of the State. In this regard, article 9, paragraph 16, of the law on signature is proposed to be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u202	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Please sit down, Igor Fedorovich. Please, the Committee's been sore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you that this law was passed on 26 more in March of this year and in the last vocation. Two comments from the minister were discussed at our training and science committee. All agreed unanimously, with the President's proposals. They are formal in nature, that is, consistent with or inconsistent with current legislation. Although I have to say from my side, I report to the committee, and we agreed with them that in the queen of intellectual property protection, including plant protection, there are a lot of disagreements, especially because we have an extremely weak system of intellectual property laws. Therefore, you will have to listen to various amendments, including the Plant Variety Act. The only way out of this is, I suggest, and I talked about this at a committee meeting with the Academy of Sciences Bureau today, and I've come up with an urgent need to create a code of intellectual property. This idea was generally supported yesterday. And then there will be no problems among the subjects of this property’s rights; we will be able to harmonize our legislation with world legislation, European legislation, including WTO accession. And today we are demonstrating that in this queen we have the protection of intellectual property, perhaps one of the very imperfect laws on many issues, such as the protection of inventions, computer-related inventions, the protection of the printing of integrated microschemes, and so forth. And finally, what I'm going to say is that today, the European Union budget has received about 5 percent of GDP from indirect intellectual property taxes. Look at our budget, how much Ukraine gets from what's called total property, which is 99 percent in the shadow. Thank you for your attention. I propose to support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u204	Thank you. No questions? No, it's not. Then we'll go to the vote. Dear colleagues, as you understand from the report of the committee's profile representative, the committee agrees with all the President's proposals. That's why I'm putting to the vote a bill under number 0836 amending the Ukrainian Plant Rights Act, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[13:22:36]] For 397 The law was passed taking into account the President's proposals. Thank you. Moreover, the President is now in line with the new procedures, since more than 300 votes are required to sign it. Let us go to the section “In summary procedure”. But in order for us to be able to implement this reduced procedure, we need to vote. I ask that we vote to consider a whole series of short-term bills. Please vote. [[13:23:31]] For 372 Cibenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u205	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I am grateful that you have given the floor now, but this word was much more important before the vote, because it means that the very important decisions are the price of each of these bills is extremely high. And yet, we're going to make a decision about a reduced procedure -- 2 comma, 2 comma -- as if there's nothing here, let's say we talk about it with the participation of all the national MPs. I think you're making a decision. I understand it's accepted, but I don't think it fits the weight that these bills deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u206	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. I support you, but at the same time, I stress once again the rule of the Rules that a representative of each faction will have the opportunity to comment on a bill if there is such a wish, despite the reduced procedure. The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Lawyers of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the acquisition of the right to engage in legal activities]] Registration number 2281. Reported Jemelyanova Inna Ivanovna, Deputy Minister of Justice. To prepare Lukas Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is presented to the draft Act amending the Law on Lawyers. And these changes are made in just one article, and this article is dedicated to the requirements that apply to those who claim to engage in legal activities in Ukraine. In this context, the aim of this project is to allow the right to engage in legal activities of any person, regardless of their nationality. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the evolving requirements that apply to those who wish to obtain a lawyer’s testimony. What criteria do these individuals face? In the first place, of course, they should have legal education, or this legal education should be obtained in higher education institutions in Ukraine; or, if it is obtained in higher education institutions abroad, in accordance with international agreements, we must recognize this higher education in Ukraine. Next. This person should have a legal career for at least 2 years. This person should speak, speak freely, in the national language of Ukraine. This person should pass a qualification test for knowledge of Ukrainian legislation, material and procedural law. In addition, this person must take an oath from a lawyer in Ukraine. That is, any person, regardless of their nationality, who has successfully passed a language examination, knowledge of the national legislation of the State, will be promoted, and the standards of legal ethics of the Ukrainian lawyer will be extended to the competence of the Ukrainian disciplinary commissions of lawyers. That is to say, it may also be subject to an appeal in the event of a violation of the requirements of the law, a seizure to deprive the person mentioned of the witness’s testimony. And most importantly, I would like to draw your attention to such an aspect, which is extremely important, is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u208	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u209	At a high level, services were provided, legal aid was provided, and that depends, not on citizenship, but on the level of knowledge, on the language of the state, to represent the interests of the courts and public authorities, and on knowledge, what I said, material and procedural rights, in order to argue in our courts. I'm asking you to support, honourable national MPs, the bill said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u210	Thank you. True, we have re-producers, and we want to involve others. Please have a seat. It's from the Olena Lukash profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u211	The President-in-Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, our Supreme Council Committee on Justice, considered the bill at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be adopted on the basis of the mandate of the Justice Committee to finalize the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the legislative initiative, and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Council in a second reading. We warmly welcome our efforts to join the World Trade Organization, but the door needs to be opened so that it does not sew up those in Ukraine. And the means of protecting Ukrainian citizens from the right or wrong level of legal services, and the means of protecting Ukrainian lawyers, should also be adequate. Because almost all the countries now in the WTO do not allow foreign lawyers to fully implement legal practices in their territory, and they act only with restrictions. In addition, foreign nationals who have the right to provide legal aid need to be provided with legal assistance in the country where they come from. And accordingly, the foreign state, we believe, should provide access to legal aid in its territory to Ukrainian lawyers, as we intend to give them the opportunity. In addition, the order of employment of foreign citizens in Ukraine is regulated in detail by valid legislation. By this order, a foreigner, or a stateless person who intends to engage in employment in Ukraine, should be allowed employment. We don't have a single U.S. attorney's license yet. And in order to allow foreigners to do legal services in Ukraine, we need a single register of foreign lawyers. In addition, obtaining testimony and drawing on disciplinary responsibility, paying taxes to Ukrainian lawyers, is carried out at a place of residence. We need to determine this question about foreign lawyers if we give them the right to provide such legal assistance in Ukraine. Ukraine's lawyer is responsible for certain actions, and it is for attracting a foreigner to do legal work in Ukraine because of the training and disciplinary commissions for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u212	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u213	So we support Kabmin's efforts to integrate into the WTO, we support the European face of Ukraine, but we ask that this bill be adopted today only on a basis and that we have the opportunity to resolve this issue on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u214	Thank you. Yes, please sign in. two-for, two- versus, green, red buttons. Yes, please, Jaduh, Party of Regions. He's behind him, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, indeed, the project proposes to establish requirements for those who have been read to us here. In general, I fully agree, and each of us knows that whoever has just encountered the courts has come to criminal proceedings, others know that it depends, of course, on the qualifications of the lawyer, on the resolution of many issues, the fatigue, especially as regards criminal cases, his qualifications, his knowledge. In general, by supporting this bill, I would just like to point out that we are concerned about the issue of working under law for at least two years. No matter who speaks, in two years, it is virtually impossible to study all the Asians of this science and provide qualified assistance to the citizens of our nation. And so I would like to make this amendment that these years, in general, I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u216	Thank you. Prince Ruslan, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! I fully support the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, this law is absolutely necessary. And rightly, the rationale behind it is the right thesis that accepting it will allow for the expansion of the access of foreign lawyers, because this practice is, indeed, customary for Ukraine. So we're just de jure based on what's de facto. I would just like to remind you of the situation surrounding the third round of prosecutions, when Swiss lawyers could not be admitted to the trial just because their rights were not formally reflected in the law. And then there was another thought on the side. Unfortunately, she's changed now. But I am very concerned that, unfortunately, we are now taking care of the corporate interests of Ukrainian lawyers, forgetting that, unfortunately, there are a huge number of issues where perhaps even our lawyers, just not even our lawyers, can participate at the professional level. What's more, I think that, in fact, this bill is worth maybe even distinguishing between Ukrainian lawyers and foreign lawyers, because I think that, let's say, a test of state language will be extremely difficult for a foreign lawyer who will come to Ukraine and he has tomorrow's trial. I'm not talking about going through all the qualified commissions and taking an oath from a Ukrainian lawyer. Perhaps we should distinguish these things in the law regarding domestic lawyers and foreign lawyers. It's just going to be more acceptable and it's going to meet the WTO requirements more clearly. Because if you read, go into the content of this article, as it appears in the paper, you might want to think, perhaps, and then inexplicable language, which will damage the practice and application of this norm. I think that during the second reading procedure it is necessary to take this into account. And in general, it's a very useful bill. It will have to be supported in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u218	Please, Zybenko. Microphone from place Follow him - Light
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u219	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, from the many laws that Ukraine needs to adopt before it joins the WTO, may not be the most important, let us say. But it's very revealing in a different way: in terms of how ready we are to crawl to the West today to please them. Well, look. Experts who draw conclusions on the employment of foreign citizens in Ukraine say that current legislation is quite clear on this issue. It's really quite clearly settled. But. However, the same legislation provides that a foreign professional’s work permit in Ukraine is granted only if there are no workers in the country who are able to solve the problem at an appropriate level. It turns out that this re-production of lawyers, of people with higher legal education, is no longer a concern to us today, I mean among Ukrainian citizens. It does not matter that many of them will be denied the opportunity to work in Ukraine. We need to open our doors more widely for foreign professionals. So, your honorary colleagues, each faction is determined on its own in terms of voting for this document. I believe that this document is not just discriminatory, it is demeaning, in terms of citizens of Ukraine. That's why the Communist faction won't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u220	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u221	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. But right now, I'm not speaking on behalf of the Yulia Block, I'm speaking on my own, because I'm also opposed to the adoption of this bill right now. I think he needs something important. Let me tell you something. He needs substantial work to be done. No, I'm not against SATs. We support the movement of you to the SOT. And we're going to vote, and the faction, and I'm in favour of the bills that will allow us to join the WTO. But I think this bill, which goes under the brand SOT, actually pursues a completely different purpose. He pursues the lobbying interests of certain groups that have tried to extend these standards in some way over the years. The fact is that nowhere, nor in any document that regulates the entry into WTO, does it require the admission of foreign lawyers to legal practice. There's no such thing. And most countries that have joined the WTO have not made such commitments. And when foreign citizens have the opportunity to engage in legal practice, they have only a certain way of doing things, not anything. Can any of us imagine our lawyers being free in the U.S. or in Britain or in any other civilized country practicing law? For years they will be persecuted and given no opportunity, and today we talk about what we give, let everyone who comes here come. And our thousands of graduates, every college law school, have, what will they do? And what responsibility did a foreign citizen have when he took the money, provided some services, and went home, and then where to look for it, by embassies, or by consulates? I think the bill needs to be thoroughly worked out, once again, it's not a faction position, it's my personal position, and I hope to convince, including, the members of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote now, but let's not get to the point that, as in some neighbouring states, we're going to have presidents of other states, and that's going to happen soon. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of draft Law No. 2281 amending the Law on Lawyers of Ukraine on the right to engage in legal activities. [[13:38:59]] For 390 Decision taken. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Raw Materials is under consideration, registration numbers 2379 and 2379-1. Yes, here, please, Deputy Minister of Economics Friday, prepare Yatzenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u223	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You will have before you a bill amending the Ukrainian Act "On Exporting Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity", which foresees a phase-out of the export expert duty on livestock and leather raw materials since Ukraine's acquisition of membership in the World Trade Organization. And in particular, it provides for the establishment of a 50 per cent rate of export duty on livestock with a further annual reduction of 5 per cent over the course of eight years. And a 30 percent rate of duty on leather raw materials, with a further 10 years reduction by 1 percentage point to 20 percent. It should be noted that export duty rates have been introduced for almost 10 years. And from 1996 to 2005, unfortunately, the head of the cattle fell 2.5 times. And meat production. *** also decreased by a significant volume of 3.5 times. And today, as these expert moments have shown, they don't work as they predicted. Nor do they contribute to the growth of cattle. And this can be a positive signal for reducing them to increase production and agriculture and, in particular, cattle. This bill has been supported by the relevant committees of the Supreme Council and we ask that it be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u224	Thank you. Have a seat, please. So, Bill 2379-1. First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Prepare the powder from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u225	High-ranking national MPs, the bill is aimed at eliminating unequal competition in the leather export market. I would like to point out that 99 percent of all skins were exported from Ukraine at zero rates in accordance with the Moldovan Free Trade Agreement. Thus, the adoption of this bill will contribute to a level playing field for all market participants – the first. The other one. At the request of the WTO members, it was suggested that a zero rate should be applied immediately for export duties on leather. Ukraine did not support this proposal but supported an eight - year transition proposal with five percent reduction in export duty on leather in accordance with the Law. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u226	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Please, the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u227	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues. I welcome you that I hope that the thirteen-year process of Ukraine's entry into the WTO trade for happiness will finally appear in the session room, and we can really expect all the necessary bills to be adopted in the near future. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting on October 31, discussed the draft laws of Ukraine amending the laws of Ukraine on imported export duties on livestock and leather raw materials. I can point out that the President's bill and the bill of government are no different from each other, and that is why the committee has decided that we can support both the President's bill and the government bill, to do a full synchronous discussion and preparation for the second reading and without delay to pass a bill to the Supreme Council already in the second reading to the term defined by the Rules. I can confirm that the committee's discussions have shown that the export duty that is now in effect, as Arsenija Petrovich rightly pointed out, is not working. Export duty revenues to the State budget were zero. Everything was completely exported through a free trade agreement. So in fact, we're replacing a non-working bill with a working bill that will ensure that the government budget, which has an eight-year transitional period, is actually going to start working for the state. At the same time, it must be noted that the rebuilding of the village is a task that is now both before the President and before the government and before Parliament. But what we have to do is make the prices for agrarian complex and vegetation and animal production really cover the cost, make a profit, then the capital goes into the village, then the production goes up, and I'm sure that's what State support should be all about. The committee therefore decided to support the bill. Recommends that the people's deputies be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u228	Thank you. I thought, Peter Alexiyovich, that you're starting with a happy message that you're considering laws that you're going to win your claim that the Supreme Council's leadership is not putting the WTO laws on the table, and you're talking about it in the media today. I mean, I think those who listened to the committee head's report realized that something was a little off. Please sign in. Two in, two in, green in, red in. Yes, very good. Tomenko, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u229	Please give the floor to the expert in this matter to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u230	Okay, now I'm going to give Kirilenko, but, dear colleagues, once again, I'm going to stress, the reduced procedure, the recording is going on somewhat differently than the recording of the performance at all. If you were to record correctly, your computer would be correct. So please sign up again. The "for" is a red button, sorry, green. The one who "against" is red. Please. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will receive the word, regardless of any record. Yes. Please, Kirilenko. I'll explain, because it's been two years, so your third didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u231	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The faction has decided to support this bill, even though it has stood in this room ten times in the past ten years and has never been supported by the Supreme Council. We have, in fact, a ban on the export of this product today. And it's clear why we had to support our easy industry, our shoemaking, our clothes, our skis, our furniture, and so on. But we had a bit of a one-sided support for one sector, and we had a little bit of a cost in another area. Share the ratios yourself at the price of a unit of heads, skin and meat with us 1 to 10, and on World Market 1 to 3, this is the loss of our agriculture. So in recent years we have lost from 25 million head to 6, and the profitability of the cattle has, unfortunately, never been lower than minus 40 percent in Ukraine. So we have to give a positive signal to the industry, just like that. We're good at negotiating the transition period for eight years, that's very good. And one more thing. It was rightly said from the rostrum that we are covering a loophole through countries with which there is a free trade regime. In fact, it went cheap through Moldova, the Baltic, our beautiful quality skin, the peasants got and the state got 0. And one more thing. I have to say honestly in this room that according to the experts of the European Union, our skins are better in Europe because we do not have severe diseases of big cattle, glory, God that we do not have. And that's why the quality is really high. We need to give a positive signal to the industry, and today we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u232	We're putting Europe's best skin down. Fishbowl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u233	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we have at last the opportunity to show absolute maturity, market approach and correct, but other decisions of our previous colleagues to vote in favour of this bill. And I'm going to tell you as an expert, and now as an MP, basically, except for damage, this law has brought nothing. And today, unfortunately, those uncles who ride "Girls" with trailers in the village are buying cattle, taking them out into the woods, taking meat away, and the skin is rotting, and how the minimum is damaging to the environment, and so on. Really. And the second question. This is going to be an eight-year phase-out of 50 percent and five years each year. This is the long-term work of all governments at the headquarters of the WTO to make such a soft transition to exports of raw leather and cattle. So I respectfully ask that we all vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u234	Yes, two ministers of agriculture expressed themselves. Another, please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u235	Thank you. Dear friends, I think we're completely different people. Different because one looks at the water and sees life, the other looks at the water and sees dirt. For example, two of my colleagues spoke, and I don't think they're ministers. They could not be ministers if they spoke against their own state. Although I respect each other. Because they have a broken agri-industrial complex, not mine. So I regret that they are called ministers. That's the first one. Second, dear friends! Paradox! How can raw materials be exported and finished?Oh, my God! What kind of country is this? How can a live animal be taken out and carried in duplex, coats, shoes, and so forth, and supplies raw material for our meatcombinants? The raw materials are exported in cash, which is imported by tens of thousands of dollars or bracelets. Today, dear friends, 80 percent of unemployment is in the village. Today, we have reduced the size of cattle 2.7 times. Three times the head of a pig. 12 times the head of the sheep. What kind of country are we? What can I do for you? How do I trade what to export, I ask?Oh, my God! And today, when diletters come and I say otherwise, I understand that this word is so offensive, but I don't understand how you can say that the state will win from it. Dear friends, they were here on the first draft of the law, on the bar. Our 7 million fellow citizens, I'm sorry, are wearing night pots in Europe. Today, we have made our peasants the thugs, then the law - abiding ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u236	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u237	I think today is not the time, but if we're not told by 5 percent, 10 percent, in order to start rebuilding the agro-industrial complex, we need to pay at least 500 dollars per hectare, 100 dollars. Poland, along with us, pays 730 euros per hectare. We have invested 30 euros in the 2007 budget. Can we compete? We're putting Ukraine on the ground. So we have no moral right to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u238	Question completed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of draft Act No. 2379 amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity. [[13:53:42]] For 390 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 115, Our Ukraine – 71, Socialist – 27, Communist – 0, non-fractional – 4. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, and we're going to consider another bill. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2390, is under consideration. [[on the payment of licences and excise duties for the production of alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products]] Reported the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Secretary of State, Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich. Prepare the powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u239	Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (on the Pay for Licenses). This is about licenses for trade, import-export and the production of alcohol and tobacco. What's going on today? Today, a simple entrepreneur has to pay an average of 250,000 dollars for a license to trade in such or other alcoholic beverages. The bets, in principle, are differentiated from 3,000 dollars to 500,000 dollars. It is suggested that you review the reduction of the licence fee to 780 dollars. In this way, any enterprise entity that wants to engage in transactions in the field of trade in excise goods will compensate the State exclusively for the cost of the relevant licence. With regard to government budget compensators, which will be associated with a reduction in licence fees. Such a compensator, as permitted by the World Trade Organization, is an appropriate change in the rates of the excise congregation. We are therefore asked to support this bill, which aims both at Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization and at simplifying the order and conditions for regular entrepreneurs to obtain the relevant licenses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u240	Thank you. Peter Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u241	Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to address you and advise you not only to read the headlines, but also the meaningful part of the messages, because in this case it was proposed to cooperate with the leadership of the Supreme Council, because of the seven bills discussed by the committee, unfortunately, only four have gone into the agenda for this week. But I think this misunderstanding will be decided without attracting a public dialogue, and we will be able to vote on all the necessary bills in the first reading of Ukraine's introduction to WTO this week. With regard to amendments to some of the laws on licenses and excise duties, the committee at its meeting on October 31st considered these bills submitted by the President of Ukraine and proposes to adopt them as a basis. Indeed, it is proposed to reduce to 780 bracelets that correspond to the value of the service, the cost of the license. But at the same time, the state will not lose any significant influence on the market for tobacco and alcohol products, and the state will, in any case, ensure an increase in the rate of excise collection coming into the state budget. I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers participated in the discussion and registered a bill of 2467 a few minutes ago. I propose to the proposal, which was developed by the committee, to accept the following supplement to the committee in the drafting of the bill, to prepare it for the second reading to include the basic provisions of Bill 2467, because there are clear rates of interest rates that would ensure that the State Budget figures are not lost. At least the committee unanimously supported this proposal and is confident that it will preserve the efficiency of the system of government regulation of the production and circulation of alcohol, alcohol and tobacco products on principles that are not contradictory.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u242	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u243	and tobacco products on principles that do not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations to join the World Trade Organization. We're ready to do this in a week's time on the committees and propose a bill for your second reading next week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u244	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. It's a good thing you weren't heard from Julia Volodymyrna and Koval, who are constantly accusing us of breaking the Rules, and you're asking. You looked at it yesterday, and today you're in session. This violation of the Rules and Lightness confirms. Therefore, we will act in accordance with the proper rules of the Rules. Please sign up. Green and red buttons. Then we'll find out what anyone wants. Yes, please, Hellcat. Behind him, Skut.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u245	Hell-bent, faction of the Regions. Indeed, at a high cost in the country, wholesale sales were monopolized and the law was aimed at liberalizing, adding a significant amount in bulk, and there was even hope that the third product in the country would be cheaper after bread and hall. Therefore, there is a proposal to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u246	Please, Skutak, "Our Ukraine", microphone from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u247	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u248	Who? Lipenia? Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u249	Xenia Leapina, "Our Ukraine." We support this law not only because it is a requirement of the World Trade Organization. I want to say that for two years, Ukrainian entrepreneurs have been fighting for the very norms that are now being implemented in this bill. This is the need for an internal market first. We've been insisting on the fact that you can't make a fiscal tool out of a license and you have to shift this fiscal burden to a particular fiscal function of a tool like excises. And the license will remain solely a regulatory tool. We strongly support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u250	But not so hard. Don't burn it. Please, Klinkarov is handing over Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u251	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Today, when reporting on the bill, the authors talked about some state regulation in this area of activity. Let's be honest and honest: the state has long since lost any significant influence on this extremely important situation. Those colleagues who came from previous calls obviously remember that we don't have any drafts, no problem that would stand in the Supreme Council Hall more often than the change in excise duties on liquor products. Although, to my deep conviction, it would be far more relevant today to ask questions about the return of the State monopoly to the production and sale of tobacco and alcohol. Unfortunately, however, the course is quite different today. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, I would like to welcome the citizens of Ukraine for the fact that there is not only famine in Ukraine today, but also for the use of such scales to destroy the population of Ukraine. I welcome you, fellow countrymen, to what you do to the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m0.u252	Well, we don't have to thank you for what they do to the people of Ukraine. Please, the question has been discussed. I put it to a vote: on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Payments for Licenses and Excise Congregations for the Manufacture of Spirits, Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products, registration number 2390. [[14:03:03:03]] For 400. The Law is supported in the first reading. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break until 4:00.
