ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Take your seats. Sit down, sit down, get ready for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:27]] The presence of 388 national deputies is fixed. The morning session is open. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Kuzmenk Peter Pavlovich and Samuelnek Yuri Pavlovich. Let's welcome them on this date. [[Applause]] And we wish success in all their affairs and good health at that. On the basis of the personal statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Yegorenko Tamara Vasilovna and Petrik Petr Pantelemonović, members of the Party of the Regions' MPs, I inform them of their accession to the anti-crisis coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consult on procedural matters. This morning, by 12 o’clock in the morning, an arranged farewell with our colleague Yuri Orobec and, in connection with the fact that there is now a bus that has a wish, can. Note that I speak silently. I beg you to speak quietly, it will be heard better. Please, I'm not here for you. Please sit down, everyone. Please have a seat. I have such an offer, given that from 10 to 12 hours of farewell continues with Yuri the Robot with our colleague, it will be. This is done in the Teacher’s House. Right now, there are buses near the Supreme Council, which can take advantage of this opportunity, and you can go and say goodbye. But the main mass likely wanting to participate in this ritual will be from 11 o’clock. So there's an offer that, here's the bus, there's four buses, there's an 11-hour break for this procedure. If you don't mind, then I won't put this motion to the vote. And obviously, I understand so well that it will to some extent disrupt the work of the sessional hall itself, so I wouldn't put, as planned, into a lunch break the members of the High Council of Justice. Since this is a secret ballot, it is important that all MPs be present. So I'd like to, we'll take this question back to the next sessional week or sessional day. If that is the case, then we believe that the question is agreed if there is no objection. And now we're starting to consider the issues that we have in order of the day. Thank you. There is a draft decision that we are working on amending the Supreme Council regulation on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation and election of the head, the first deputy, representatives of the head, the secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. This question is reported by Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u2	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. On October 11, the Committee considered the submission of the head of the Party of the Regions' National Party of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Bogatirirov of 06.10.2006 and the draft decree, registered number 2306, submitted by the People's Deputy of Kiselov at the invitation of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Melnik Petar Volodymirovic, a member of the Party of the Regions' Deputies, as a deputy to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary issues, vacating the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. Considering that the draft regulation was prepared in accordance with the requirements of section 7 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part 7 of article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee decided to support the proposed draft regulation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u3	Is there a note? Oh, no? May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote on this motion for a ruling. Please. [[10:07:12]] For 255 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u4	At its meeting on 11 October, the Committee considered a statement by the national deputy Savosin to elect him as a member of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Taking into account that the estimated quota for the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction in the Committees is 1.2 per cent, and the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing does not have any representative of this faction, the Committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Savosin and to submit an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u5	No objections? I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please. [[10:08:12]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u6	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Bogchuk Vasil Stepanović, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. Considering that the calculated quota for the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on committees of up to 30 persons is 1.8, and that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working on this faction of the 1st National Deputy of Ukraine, i.e. the quota not used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogchuk, and to submit an appropriate draft regulation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u7	I'll bet the vote on this project, please. [[10:09:10]] For 243 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u8	The committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bogchuk Vasil Stepanović to elect him as a member of the Ukrainian Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation. There are no restrictions on the number of members of the Special Monitoring Commission on the privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account the requirements of part one of the first article of the Fourteenth Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, a national deputy may be elected at the same time as a member of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a temporary special and temporary commission of inquiry. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Bogchuk and to make an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u9	I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[10:10:14]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u10	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Mitroshkin Igor Aleksandrovitch, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for his election as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs on the Committees is 7.2, and that the Committee on Legal Policy has six Ukrainian National Deputies, i.e. the quota not used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u11	I'm betting on the vote for this project, please identify yourself. [[10:11:07]] For 246 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u12	The committee reviewed the statement made by Ukrainian national deputy Yakimenko Mikli Evgenovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Health Care. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction on the Committees is 7.1, and the Committee on Health and Health has three Ukrainian National Deputies working from this faction. So the quota is not used. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Yakimenko and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u13	I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please identify yourself. [[10:12:02]] For the 250. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u14	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovitch, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on the Committees is 7.2, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality is working from this faction of four Ukrainian national deputies, i.e. the quota is not used. The committee decided to support and submit an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u15	I'm betting on a draft ruling. Registration number 2339. Please. [[10:12:54]] For 246
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u16	The committee considered a statement by Ukrainian national deputy Kozachenko Alexiyyovich, a member of the deputy faction of “Our Ukraine” about his election as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. The calculated quota for the House of Deputies of “Our Ukraine” in committees of up to 30 persons is 4.6, and the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking operates from this faction of four national deputies. So the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy Kozachenko and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u17	I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:52]] For 196 The decision is not taken. We need to continue our consultations on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u18	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Demchisin Vasil Vasilovich, a member of the Party of the Regions MP for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing. The calculated quota for the MPs of the Committee's Party of Regions is 7.2, and in the Committee on Construction, the city of housing-communal agriculture works in this faction of 5 people's deputies. I mean, the quota is not used. The committee decided to support Demchisin’s statement and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u19	Let's put to the vote draft regulation 2367, please. [[10:14:52]] For 251 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u20	At its meeting on 18 October, the Committee considered a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[draft submitted by Ukrainian National Deputy O. Tsarov to replace registered number 2177 of 11.10.2006 with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] The draft decree proposes that the National Deputy of Ukraine, King Oleg Antonovich, a member of the Party of the Regions, be elected as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters by releasing a member of the Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and International Relations. The draft decree does not comply with the requirement of article 79, part 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The statement made by the National Deputy of the Kingdom is not accepted by the head of the MP of the Party of the Regions. In addition, the estimated quota for a committee of up to 30 members of the Party of Deputies is 10.7 and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine operates from this faction of 12 national deputies. But two national deputies from the Party of the Regions came out of this committee, so the kings urge him to be included instead of Azar. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council not to support it, but the national deputy insisted. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u21	That is to say, the situation has been clarified: Two deputies have come out and the quota is now permissible and can be replaced. The committee’s decision is well - known, but please determine by vote. I'm betting on a draft vote to include it, draft Decree No. 2177. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:17:12]] For 207 Decision Not Adopted
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u22	At its meeting on 10 October, the Committee considered a statement by the national deputy, Demidek Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' parliamentary faction on the committee is 7.2 and it's being used. The committee therefore decided not to support the statement by the national deputy, Demidek, to elect him as a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u23	You have a draft ruling and I'm putting it to a vote, please. For 217 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u24	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Pinchuk Andrija Pavlovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ deputized faction for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, vacating the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on family, youth policy, sport and tourism. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on the committees is 10.7 per cent of the Committee’s quota. The committee therefore decided not to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national MP Pinchuk. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u25	I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please. [[10:19:12]] For 205 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u26	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Razgonjev Mikhail Vasilovich, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. The calculated quota for the Party’s parliamentary faction of the Committee’s regions is 7.1, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building Regional Policy and Local Self-Government operates from this faction of 8 national deputies. So the quota is used. The committee decided not to support the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine Razgonyev. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u27	I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[10:20:07]] For 229 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u28	The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Anatolia Andriyovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Relations by releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. Calculated quota exceeded. But the MP's made a four-time offer. He is an expert in the area where he prays and urges the committee to support his decision four times. That's why we're making this proposal for a resolution of the room. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u29	I'll bet you a vote. [[10:21:09]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Transport and communication, and culture, spirituality, things are connected. So let's go back to that question later. Let's deal with the factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u30	At its meeting on 10 October, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Sklar Vladimir Borisovich, a member of the parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice. The calculated quota for the bloc's parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” on committees of up to 20 persons is 3.1, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice is working from this faction of 3 national deputies. So the quota is used. The committee decided not to support the statement made by the national deputy of the Ukraine of Sklar. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u31	Let's put this proposal to the vote. [[10:22:19]] For 270. Decision taken. We'll consider this later on. I'm asking for your attention. MP Rudniew made a suggestion to revote his appointment. But I beg your attention, we all understand. He's a professional in this particular field, and that could be considered. But you can't just go into a state of crisis with the Committee of Culture. There must be people who are appropriate, numbers and so forth. The faction will find a replacement there, and then we'll look at another question. A draft Decision on the appointment of Pilpenka V.P. is under consideration. Member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. [[project Sovkovich]] In this regard, the author of the legislative initiative, Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u32	Please support Philippeenko Vladimir for the post that today, two posts on behalf of the Supreme Council, the Higher Qualifications Commission. He's a young lawyer, a progenitor lawyer, and a lawyer's mom, and he's a candidate for science, but not like in the movie, he's a candidate for science. A party of regions is always accused of moving only the Donkeys. This is exactly the way we are moving from Lviv to this position. In addition, the person considered himself to be extremely decent regardless of the political situation, he supported and worked as a lawyer, both against the oranges and against the white pigeons, but always held an honest position. They're the kind of people that need to be there and they're missing. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u33	The question is to the reporter? I won't. He's at Klukkowski's, please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u34	Yuri Klukkowski i, “Our Ukraine” Block. I can believe all your characteristics, but I can't understand one thing. It's about a High-Skilling Commission of Judges. And we're putting a young lawyer there. I mean, we give a young person without much experience in life the right to appreciate the qualifications of judges. Where is the logic of your proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u35	Thank you. First of all, he's not that young, but if we take Yatzenuk, Bondar, for example, we've entrusted these young people after the Orange Revolution with such positions as the Minister of Transport, and to this day we've actually entrusted them with the whole country. Where's the logic? That's the logic: young people are highly qualified and promising, and that's exactly what they have to do. And decent. Because unfortunately, Mr. Yuri, people over 50 who go there. Well, you asked, I answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u36	Please. There was an answer. What a question, that's the answer. Have a seat, please. The committee will report to Sergey Kiwalov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with articles 75 and 76 of the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokus of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints two persons to serve as the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. Today, according to the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, one vacancy remains unfulfilled. The Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered at its meeting on October 18, 2006, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointing Philipovich as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. Having examined the materials submitted regarding the candidate, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice concluded that Filipenko Vladimir Pilipovich met the requirements of articles 75, 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudour of Ukraine and could be appointed a member of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption, as a whole, of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Philippenik Vladimir Pilipovich as a member of a qualified commission of judges of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u38	No questions asked by the reporter? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. You've got a minute. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u39	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First of all, I want to talk to my coalition colleagues. So given that some of the questions that have to do with the formation of human resources, and this is a personnel issue, we haven't discussed on the coalition council, I'd like to ask, without denying the candidate, to put it on the table, and in a week, let's say, let's think about it after the coalition council decides. For in this matter we share responsibility and each thought must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u40	Well, thinking clearly, I think we should listen to him. But here's the detail, the question is included in the order of the day, and then we have to decide on the transfer of the matter. Who is in charge of handling the matter, please? [[10:29:58]] For 227 The question has been asked, please consult. About the permanent termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. The President's representative, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, on October 9, this year, Vice-President of the Central Electoral Commission, Mikola Ivanovich Melnik, made a request to the President of Ukraine to appoint a member of the Central Electoral Commission from his own initiative. In this connection, on the basis of paragraph 21, part one of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 30 of the Central Election Commission Act, the President of Ukraine submits to the Supreme Council for a term suspension of the credentials of a member of the Central Election Commission, Melnik Miko Ivanovic, in connection with his personal application for the appointment of office. Thus, the President asks the Supreme Council to release Mikola Ivanovich Melnik from the mandate of a member of the Central Election Commission in connection with his application. I also have authority on behalf of the committee that considered this issue yesterday at my meeting to make a proposal to the committee. The committee at its meeting yesterday considered the matter. In the process of discussion, it was regrettable that a doctor of law, a professor, a highly qualified lawyer and a deeply decent person were coming from the Central Election Commission. However, taking into account his personal wishes, the Committee requests the Supreme Council to support this, and the corresponding draft of Decree 2365 on the discharge of a member of the Central Election Commission, Melnik Mikol Ivanovich, according to his personal statement, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u42	No questions to the reporter? None. I'm putting to the vote the draft order for the release of Melnik Mikli Ivanovich from office as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Please support this proposal. [[10:32:21]] For 368 Decision taken. “For” was voted by 368 national deputies. I think if the Parliament commissioned Mikola Ivanovich Melnik to be a member of the Central Electoral Commission, he worked extremely well there. He was one of the key representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, to whom he could always turn, and he gave an exhaustive answer and objectively always took his stand on various issues, so we are right to thank him for the work and to wish him success in the kind of favor he had chosen for himself. Thank you. [[Applause]] The draft Government Day Decision is being considered in December 2006 “On the state of the current alienation zone of the “Hiddenness” and Chernobyl AES”, the Calchenka project. And Calchenko will report. Frg_00843*001*015&lt;10:33: 39&gt;
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u43	Honourable National Deputies invited to your consideration are the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on “The day of the Government of Ukraine” in December 2006 with the agenda “On the current state of the alienation zone, the “Secretation” object and the Chernobyl AES”. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at their meeting on October 18, 2006, supported the draft Government Day Decision in December 2006. I would like to remind you that in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 14 December 2000 “On the recommendations of participants in parliamentary hearings regarding the closure of the Chernobyl AES”, hearings on the situation in the Chernobyl AES are held annually. It is also nearly a year after the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES, and today there is a need to analyse what the Government of Ukraine has done to improve the situation in the alienation zone. It should be noted that the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster are still acutely felt by the population of Ukraine. After 20 years of the Chernobyl disaster, we can say with confidence that the minimization of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is not temporary, but a long-term purposeful activity of the state that will take place over a historically long period of time. Information from governments about how to deal with a problem such as the end of the relocation of citizens from the alien zone needs to be heard. Note that they do not even have medical care today. There is a problem of returning polluted areas to normal life, providing people with jobs, enabling citizens, communities, areas to realize their economic potential. Thus, economic rehabilitation of polluted areas becomes a very important priority in the social protection of the affected population. I would like to remind you that the design of the Hidden object was carried out on May 20th, June 1986, and the construction from June to November of this year. The Sarcophagus was built in a high level of radioactivity, a method of remote installation, and its guaranteed operation is officially passed in 2006. Therefore, taking steps and removing the Chernobyl AES from the operation and conversion of environmentally sound facilities requires effective and competent approaches to solving the problems facing the Ukrainian government. This is primarily the removal from the use of energy and the conversion of shelter objects into an environmentally safe system. Today, there is no clear timetable for work on the exploitation of Chernobyl’s AES, which is due to the fact that the government has so far failed to submit to the Supreme Council a draft of a state-wide programme for the removal of Chernobyl’s AES and the conversion of shelter objects into a secure system. In addition, Chernobyl’s AES authorities have suspended the tender procedure for work at Chernobyl’s AES and shelter facilities. The five - year period after the closure of Chernobyl’s AES is marked by systematic underfunding from the State budget of Ukraine for the operation and maintenance of facilities and systems designed and put into service, as well as those that will be put into service under the conversion program. The main problem is not the readiness of the infrastructure, the most important facilities needed to remove the number two nuclear fuel depots from operation. The rare radioactive waste treatment plant and the industrial folding complex with solid radioactive wastes during the operation of the CHAS power grids are uncomplicated and their construction schedules are currently lagging behind planned for one to six years. If the object of the shelter, albeit in a slow, yet open-ended work on the stability of structures, the creation of auxiliary systems, has begun to prepare work for the construction of a new safe shelter. Unfortunately, in six years since the final stop of Chernobyl’s AES, the station has never been able to get any real work out of operation. Today, ČAES is in the process of preparing for removal from operation, and the process will begin only with the release of spent nuclear fuel from the energy cells in shelters, nails, and nails. It should be noted that as a result of the delay in the deployment of a new nuclear fuel depot, Ukraine is suffering both financial and political losses. The need to increase the funding of international projects to address the problems of Chernobyl’s AES is also being raised again today. I would also like to highlight the following. The 2007 draft of the Ukrainian Act on the National Social and Economic Development Programme does not address the need to implement a state-wide system, to deal with radioactive waste and the state-owned state strategy fund, and to deal with radioactive wastes in Ukraine through targeted fuel management programmes and highly active wastes in Ukraine. There is also insufficient funds for the operation of the Verter manufacturing complex from deactivation, transport, processing and burial of RAV. In 2007, it is necessary to restore practically the already built nail two from scratch and continue to work with completely new technology. At present, the issue of ensuring workers and the environment are not resolved, nor is it about bringing about the physical protection of Radon’s special-combinants. This is one of the reasons why we should listen to the government of Ukraine, how it plans to address the problems of dealing with the deployed nuclear fuel of the Chernobyl AES in a comprehensive way. In line with the calendar schedule of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed to hold Government Day on December 12, 2006. In view of the fact that two questions on this day are included, the committee suggests that the question be considered by the third party. Because this issue must be addressed in the current year in order for it to be coordinated with both the economic and social development programme of Ukraine and the government budget for 2007. Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the Committee, please support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold the Government Day in December 2006 with the agenda on the current state of the alienation zone of the shelter and Chernobyl’s AES. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! Before you ask the question of Valery Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have two questions on December 12th, as the reporter has already said, and we have no right under the Rules to put more than two to the table on this day. The same is true because of the implementation of parliamentary hearings on housing for military and police personnel, as well as the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine, and the implementation of the national oncology programme. Obviously we're going to have to do it in advance, and there's still time for the government to be able to prepare for these or other issues, perhaps in another mode. Perhaps a question can be passed on in the form of a hearing or another as a government day. And in view of these circumstances, it would obviously be necessary to make an additional point, because once again, under the Rules, we have no right to ask third parties, because, in fact, it will not be taken into account, it will be blurred among other issues. No, you can move it to March, but the government is now dealing with this problem with the European Bank of Reconstruction and other European institutions and the focus of this issue, I hope, unfortunately, it will not disappear by March. So, Valeriy Mikhailovich, if you suggest March, let's put it on. If so, consult with the initiators of other decisions and initiators and determine further. Valerius Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u45	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, the point is that these issues proposed by the Committee should be fully coordinated with the 2007 State Economic and Social Development Programme and the 2007 State Budget. In December, we can go through with this option that we want to do something, but we don't have this technical capability anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u46	There's a lot of ways to solve the question that you've asked. So your argument that you've made today with the signatures of the deputies and the Head of the Committee to the Cabinet of Ministers, as a reference to the program that we're going to consider in the second reading, can certainly go in there. On the other hand, we still have a draft decree to amend the Supreme Council Order on the Day of Government in December, which was proposed by national deputy Bondarczuk and supported by the Head of the Bachtiev Health Committee. So, Valeriy Mihajlovich, let's pause this question for now, even though you've already reported it, and we'll consider the next question first, and then we'll come back, if the Supreme Council agrees, then we'll make the changes. Please, Aunt Dmitrovna Bachtieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u47	Honourable People's Deputies, respected by Alexander Alexandrovich. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, which was reviewed by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the draft regulation amending the previous decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold the Government of Ukraine Day in December 2006 with an agenda for the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine and the implementation of the State programme on “Oncology”. The author of the draft regulation proposes to amend paragraph 3 of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted on 21 September 2006, and to define the Government's Day in Parliament as the Committee on Health. The Committee does not support the draft regulation, since it is considered appropriate to hold hearings in a special committee with the same agenda as approved by the Supreme Council regulation before bringing the matter before the Supreme Council. In the opinion of the Committee, hearings in the Health Committee would allow for a better consideration of the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine, the implementation of the State Cancer Programme and the decision to do so. The Committee's hearings provide an opportunity for a broader and more specific dialogue among the participants in the hearing, as well as for the participation of not only representatives of the public authorities, but also the general public. And we would be very happy if a large number of members of the people were also present. The Committee therefore proposes to repeal the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament of 21 September 2006 on the observance of Government Day in the Supreme Council in December 2006 with the agenda for the protection of the rights of cancer patients in Ukraine and the implementation of the State programme on “Oncology” by commissioning hearings in the Committee. Thank you. Please support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u48	I, Aunt Dmitrovna, make a little remark. First, Bondarczuk will report, then you and you have changed the procedure on your own. Well, that's true. Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please be seated on the rostrum, and make sure that you have your information.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine To be honest, I do not share the point of view of my colleague, the Head of the Health Committee, who suggests lowering the level and schedule of consideration of this archive for Ukraine. I'm not a specialist. And we've done, more faithfully, I've made a draft decision to make changes to the decision that we've taken in September, only to focus on this particular focus not just on social, but first, on the medical and social problem that, unfortunately, is known to many of us, including, as I'm told, not on hearing. Therefore, given the urgency of this problem and the need to focus attention and attention not only on public authorities but also on society, I would feel it necessary to leave the matter to the Government’s Day in December, just by putting us in the position of others after the Health Committee. And there's absolutely no other subtext here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u50	Ivan Mikolaiovich, I want to point out that Auntie Dmitrovna is not suggesting that we lower the level. She proposes to hold the hearing first, and then the day of the government. So let's do that. If the MPs don't object, I would suggest that we take into account in the ruling that on the Government Day, the Health Committee will be the first responsible committee and that we start by hearing on the committee with the involvement of all the people involved, the experts, the sounding, or the information accompanying such a hearing, so that the whole community will know about the severity of the problem. And then it's government day when it's all cleared up. So let's listen then we'll offer you a December month, or even November. And then the day of the government will be passed on to later. Let's say it's March or something. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u51	There's no denying it, there's no denying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u52	Can we support such an offer? Then I will put to the vote a proposal such that in the "For the Day of Government" decision instead of, more faithfully, the Health Committee puts the first place in charge of its preparation. We are voting for an oncology hearing at the December Health Committee. And in March months then we'll put the government's Day on this issue, on this issue. Is there no objection? This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please. [[10:51:49]] For 374 Decision taken. In such a case, there is free space for Government Day, a place for the issue of the situation of the violation of the Hidden Object, just reported by Valérie Calchenko. If there's no objection, I'm voting on this proposal to include the government on December of this issue. Please. "Hidden" on December. [[10:52:34]] For 206. Obviously we don't get it. Who's in charge of voting, please? [[10:52:59]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Let's work on the factions. I think we'll include this next time. Thank you. It stands in the order of day for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making of the draft Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Stock Exchange Association of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine. And there's a reporter here, and everything that's before. Similarly, the draft Act amending the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[on the transport of passengers and goods by road]] There. I mean, two projects. I put the first 2,352 in the order of the day. Please. [[10:54:32]] For 223 Me. We don't consider that question then. Please, calm down! Whoever insists on voting on the issue of inclusion, I insist once again. To return to the consideration of this matter. [[10:55:08]] For 241 Yeah, yeah. I once again put to the vote the inclusion and consideration of the Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:55:39]] For 243 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[on the transport of passengers and goods by road]] On the subject of inclusion and consideration today, I put the matter to a vote. [[10:56:09]] For 219 The decision is not made. Do you want to vote? So Klukkowski insists on. Oh, no? Then don't insist. No, I'm not giving you my word, you're not insisting. Please. Thank you. The word is given to Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich, a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u53	Honourable Alexander Alexander, honourable colleagues, article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act regulates the formation of supervisory boards of state banks. According to it, the order is: 7 members of the supervisory boards of state banks formed by the President of Ukraine, 7 formed by the Supreme Council. For the last time, the Supreme Council made a decision on March 22, 2001. Like the term of office of members of the supervisory boards of state banks for five years, that is, in fact, the term of their mandate came up in March. At the first meeting of our committee, which is mandated by the Committee of Profiles to consider the matter, a task was put in place to assess the need for teams and rotations of members of the supervisory boards of state banks. Article 76 also regulates, in addition to order, and the criteria for selecting members, candidates for supervisory boards of state banks. In line with these criteria, people were selected to meet the committee on October 17th and, in line with the proposals made by the committee members of the national committee, a decision had been drawn up by members of the committee, members of the committee, members of the committee for consideration. At the committee meeting, all candidates were invited, curricula vitae, work experience were considered. There was an opportunity to ask each of them questions. After consultations yesterday, there was a rotation of two candidates. In fact, the places on the list are the candidate Bandurov and the candidate Fedorenko with a corresponding change: Fedorenko moves to the State Saving Bank of Ukraine, Bandurov moves to the Supervisory Board of “Ukreximbank”. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u54	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Vasil Mihajlovich, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint members of the Supervisory Boards of Open Shareholders of the State Saving Bank and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, has been adopted on several occasions. And that includes, by the way, both the Constitution and the Rules of Work. That's my question. Please tell the Financial and Banking Committee profile whether there have been any specific or real comments about specific candidates, or whether the committee as a whole has supported your proposal and those personnel that have been named. That's the first one. And the second. Is the presence of the interests of the various factions reflected to what extent in order for us to have a collective, collective vote here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u56	I'll tell you what. The committee considered October 17th, I repeat, October 17th, the draft of the regulation. And in addition to that, a suitable, professional subcommittee had the opportunity to discuss each candidate. No comments were made on any of the candidates at the committee meeting. In doing so, they were nominated by various deputies, who are representatives of various political forces on the profile committee. So the basic principle was not the party of candidates, it wasn't the principle at all, it was their professional training and their desire to work. Because oversight councils need to work, not just to attend their meetings from time to time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u57	Vasil Mikhailovich, I'll take advantage of the fact that I'm closer to the microphone, the question is. I am the author of the draft Law on the Order of the Forming of Supervisory Councils. This project is in agreement with the President of Ukraine. As far as it fits, let's say that the project can't be, but, nevertheless, as far as the principles set out in this project are concerned, the recommendations of the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u58	You know, I've been familiar with your project and I'm convinced that in the future we should go back at all to the question of the functioning of state banks from a point of view, this is my personal point of view, from the point of view of drafting appropriate bills that would regulate the work of each of these state banks, such as the Savings Bank Act and the law on the “Ukreximbank”. In terms of selection criteria, each candidate has an appropriate professional level, adequate experience in management positions. There are some inadequacies about the presence, I know, of the two candidatures that, I assure you, after the success of this issue in the Supreme Council, they will come out of the respective supervisory boards of other banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u59	Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u60	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to my colleague, Deputy Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u62	I would like to answer your question right now, Alexander Alexanderovich, and when the law you've proposed is passed, we're going to have to call back five members of the board because they won't meet those requirements. The other one. Question to the reporter. Please tell me, do you know that the President of Ukraine has addressed the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a proposal before putting this issue into the Hall, signing a memorandum on honest rules and principles, and transparency in the consideration of candidates in these councils?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u63	Stanislav Mikolaiovich, you, like me, are a banker with great experience. So I'm convinced that you understand that no memorandum will regulate the activities of state banks. To do this, you really need to develop specialized laws that would clearly discuss both the selection criteria in the board of directors and what state banks should do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u64	I'm going to answer further with regard to the memorandum, and I've suggested to the President that I prepare a law so that I don't prepare a memorandum that has no legal power and this law is prepared. He may be in the order of the day literally the next sessional week and accepted. So if we adopt this law, and I think we're going to adopt it, and it doesn't fit the content of this document, if it's positively accepted, then we're going to make changes, the other way out, I don't see. Question, another minute of Vyziewski, please. Please, Viziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u65	National Deputy of Ukraine Volodymyr Jazynowski “Our Ukraine”. I think that in the steering and steering party there is not enough personnel to fit the bill that has already been proposed to provide its people with appropriate observation boards. Please pass on the last word to Ajewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u66	Please, Ajewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u67	I wanted to ask the reporter essentially. I remind you that a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank may be a citizen with appropriate education. Please tell me if such requirements are met by a candidate named Nedashkovsky, who has spent his entire life in a completely different field. And the candidate Melniczuk, who was the head of the club, is certainly not bad. Please tell them that they have appropriate education in accordance with the Law on Banking and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u68	I'll tell you the next thing, your colleague, your previous colleague, said that there were no representatives for the same political force, just a candidate for Nedashkovsky was offered by your party colleagues, that's the first. So you can look at this question inside of you. With regard to MP Melniczuk, I'm going to say that this colleague of ours who worked last time was quite active, so the committee has considered the possibility of being included in the Supervisory Board of the State Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u69	By the way, Mikhailo Melniczuk also worked as district manager, head of the district council, district chief, and has tremendous experience in managing the farmwork, including all his activities, including contacts with banks, etc. That's why I'm asking you. I understand. Sit down, please. Taking into account proposals for replacement from the first list and in the second, Bandurov and Fedorenko to switch places with this proposal, it is meant. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'm asking you to take it off. One minute, take off your vote. Discussion, from factions, please log in. Discussion from factions, please. Klukkowski, Zabolotsky, Chukmasov, Bodnar will address this issue. I'll call it a break until 12:30. Break till 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u70	Deputies! Please announce that the meeting is continuing. Vasil Alexiyovich. We're continuing the morning session. Now we're talking about a decision. I would like to remind you once again that before, we had been exchanging thoughts on the preparation and consideration of the Supreme Council of the Law on the Procedure for the Forming of Supervisory Councils. We will consider this law the next sessional week after the conclusions are reached by the committee. And it was logical to consider this issue after the adoption of the law. Nevertheless, we have this question in the procedure. I ask you to join me in discussing it. The factions of the faction have been recorded, and so far three men. And there is a way to sign up for more deputies, please sign up, but in general we will limit the discussion to 15 minutes. Sign up for the MPs who would like to make a statement. So the first one has the word Zablotsky from the Party of Regions. You can come out of the rostrum. You can go to the rostrum. Do you want to get out of here? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u71	Bollocks, faction of the Party of the Regions. I hereby give the floor to the representative of our faction Kruhl's Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u72	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, Mikola Kruglov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to say that we are now in the situation as in the children's account: “We shared orange – many of us, and he alone” – about this situation here. We now have seven members of the Supervisory Board at one state bank and another. We cannot consider more than fourteen candidates. Clearly, there are interests in each political group. But what I'm saying is, the representatives of every political group, faction, at our committee meeting made their proposals, they were discussed, and no other candidates came forward. I think that in today's situation we should clearly see that there are seven candidates who have discussed, if there are any claims, or requirements for a candidate or another candidate, we should determine by way of a vote. I practically invite my colleagues to vote in favour of that motion for a ruling that has been tabled in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Arjewitin from “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u75	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine”, head of the Council of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. I would like to say a few words about the procedure for addressing this issue in our committee, because the rapporteur said that there were no objections, everyone voted in favour, but the two deputies, including me, did not vote in favour of this ruling for the reason that it was pre-planned in the agenda and the materials were distributed to fourteen candidates five minutes before the question was considered. Next. This decision needs to be rejected, for this reason, so that we do not create a precedent in the Supreme Hall when we are in breach of legislation ourselves, because two members, two candidates today on formal grounds do not comply with the law on Banking and Banking. Let me not be offended by Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, today we were reminded of him, perhaps he was a great expert in the agricultural sector as a member of the Supreme Council, but unfortunately he has no economic education, he has agronomist education. If we were to elect members of the Agrobank Board, I think that would be the best candidate for that Supervisory Board. So, even from this point on, I think we should reject this determination today. And I think among the 150,000 bankers who work today and the 50,000 who have worked before, you can find decent people who could actually represent such important banking systems in our country. Next. I don't think it's necessary to hurry, because Alexander Alexandrovich has passed a beautiful law that deals with a lot of issues, including this question. And today these banks work rhythmically, the management works rhythmically, and it's no big deal, if we don't hurry, and then on Sunday, we go back to that question again, because those proposals that Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz makes, they're going to ask the question that we're going to have to call off five board members that won't meet those requirements. And I have no doubt that we are going to adopt those criteria in this law. Next. I'd like to say about the quality composition. It's, and once again, it's specialized banking systems. I don't understand, for example, why an active head of the government of a commercial bank should be part of a state bank, we're assuming interest, a conflict of interest. Several men who were involved in the banking system, but in this system they are further than those of Inko Bank or managers, the main clearing account specialists, they have not reached. Maybe they're great engineers in the engineering field, automobile construction, but once again, I'm stressing, they're specialized state banks. So my suggestion is not to be hasty about rejecting this decision and after considering the law that Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz passed and to consider it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u76	Chukmasov. Chukmasov hasn't returned yet. Please, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Wait. Who are your authorized representatives from the faction management, who? Please. It's a faction statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u77	Yeah, that's exactly what this is about. Recorded. Dear colleagues, I will be very brief. In the event of this decision, I can predict that the State Saving Bank of Ukraine and Ukreximbank will face the fate of the famous Bank of Ukraine, which, to this day, cannot be understood, to this day, cannot be determined by whom, including the deputies of the past call, and perhaps they are in this calling. He ceased to exist, resulting in the suffering of thousands of people. If you're talking about personnel, I'd like you to pay attention. The author ruled Gorbal Vasil Mihajlovich. Everyone knows he's got something to do with "The Bank." When you look at the candidates that we're offered, you'll see, there's this, this is the candidate, Montenegro, who worked at the Krugazbank. In addition, when examining the list of nominations made in this decision for approval by the members of the observation boards, three of them from the Privatbank, from the “SKM” known to all companies, including the “Skrgazbank”. I want to remind Vasil Mikhailovich, although he's a much older MP than I am at the time of the call, but you obviously know that even at the time of Kuchma, the appointment of members of the observation boards was consistent with all factions. Because the observation board, the bank, it's a specialized institution. It's not a private food store called Krukgazbanka or a faction of regions. These are state banks. And all the factions represented here by voters have the right to control their work. Not to go out again, as with the already mentioned bank “Ukraine”. Hence, it is absolutely necessary to listen to the thoughts of the Head of the Supreme Council in order to defer consideration of the matter. I also took a look at the bill that San Sanic proposed yesterday. There are fairly clear requirements for candidates for bank observation boards and it is worth supporting. And only then, perhaps, will the candidates you've offered be supported by our faction. And today, Block Tymoshenko will not vote in favour of this decree. And it warns that voters know that in the event of this decision, savings and “Ukreximbank” should be taken away immediately. Otherwise, their bad fortune will befall them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u78	Well, I'd like to ask people not to be intimidated during the discussion, because you can't do that in a banking area where a lot of MPs feel like big professionals. That's why there's a classic expression on this. I don't want to repeat it, but still. Be careful. The word is Kljev Sergey Petrovich. He's not in the hall right now. Moses please. Arjovitin. Arjovitin has already performed. Does he still want to come out? Well, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u79	I wanted to ask the MPs once again not to engage in discussions about state banks, because this could have a terrible impact on the image of these banks, on the customer attitude. So I don't want customers to be in the hall all the time. That's why it's an offer. I'm asking you very much, let's take a picture of this question. We'll take the project that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich proposed. At the end of the month, a memorandum will be considered in the Cabinet of Ministers on the signing of the Prime Minister, the President and the Head of the Supreme Council, which will also address these issues. So the big request, let's take this question down, so, again, I emphasize, we have a direct violation of the existing legislation by several members of the candidates that are being proposed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u80	Thank you for that information. Because citizens don't trust much. As the MP speaks, there is a certain coefficient of mistrust. I don't call it a last name here, so I think everyone calm will be in this respect and everything will be fine. Please. Sergey Petrovich clumped. After him, Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u81	Deputies! I am the Chairman of the subcommittee on banks and banking. We have considered the candidates very carefully. In the process of discussing these issues, a bill was registered for the establishment of the Ostadeximbank Supervisory Boards, which provides for the formation of the compositions. So, what can I do for myself and after consultations, that we can approach a compromise solution? If, in the adoption of a law that is registered today, whether or not there is a law to be passed and approved by us in the Hall, no one will be in line with it, then the Committee on Finance and Banking, to which I am a member and I hope, my colleagues will also support the faction colleagues, return to this issue and necessarily bring all the candidates into line with the newly adopted legislation. I believe that when we consider today's draft, we must be guided by existing legislation, bearing in mind what may be adopted, but since March 2006, the work of the monitoring boards of the Gosbanks has been blocked. No decision can be taken. In fact, banks do not have the capacity to function fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u82	Corge, please. To whom do you give the word? Baby, please, Baby. Ah, Yavorowski, microphone, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski. Baby, I'm tired, so I'm gonna back him up a little bit. Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, the document that we are considering today inadvertently suggests that our history develops in circles. And not very often in the ascending circle. Well, it's quite obvious that a repetition of the situation, when one political force was taking mail and telegraph by the early 20th century, was taking banks. And then, according to the text, you already know. Today, there is an absolutely obvious situation: one political force, let it, even, and most of the time today, is clearly anxious to semi-privatize or take control of a number of banks. I'm not saying this because I believe that I can convince my opponents that I shouldn't do it, because there are many moments and morals and not just morals. I'm saying this just so our voters can hear us, that today, well, if this decision goes through, it's a decision that's going to destroy, in fact, to some extent, even our entire banking system. This is absolutely unacceptable. In an institution such as the bank where national money and government money are to be turned, different political powers must be represented, those on the political scene of the Ukrainian State. So, really, let's wait, let's adopt this law. I understand why our colleagues are in such a hurry. Because this Alexander Frost Act, if it's accepted, it's going to have to be followed, maybe at least at the beginning when it's adopted, and then we can ignore it, it's accepted. Because of that, of course, there's the wisest version today, well, don't chase horses, guys, your money is nowhere you want to wrap it up, it's not going anywhere. You're going to take them away, not so reactively, but much slower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u84	Stone, please. Out of the way, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u85	Kamchatny, Kharkushina, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Indeed, when I consider this question, I would like to support colleagues who oppose his acceptance of me. And, you know, it's one thing to touch the other. And today, we have a vivid example of another issue of opposition being suppressed. It seems to me that in such serious banks there should be representatives from another political power, even most of the opposition, because “it is knocking in the lake to avoid taking a nap”, this principle should work in all areas of our economic activity. And that's why we don't have to take it. We need to go back, first of all, to the adoption of the Opposition Act, which includes these things, the possibility of having its representatives on board boards of such serious banks, particularly those of the Savings Bank. It is a bank that has the interests of virtually every family of our voters in Ukraine. So I support colleagues who oppose this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard of the opposition's presence in these supervisory councils. The representatives of “Our Ukraine ” are there. Please, now. Please turn on the hunchback microphone, let him know who he is, representing “Our Ukraine” on these lists. A hunchback microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u87	As I understand it, Zinczak and Nedashkovsky were recommended as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u88	The discussion is over. I'm asking you to put some pressure on your emotions. Press your emotions, please. I'm making another observation, not yelling at the Supreme Council, you're humiliating the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the discussion unfolded during the vote for this decree and the content, I think that the content will be as far away as they consider it necessary. I mean, personal storage. But it would be logical to remove this conflict in principle, first to vote on the law on changes to this procedure, and then to vote on the personal composition. And in view of this, this is a kind of deviation from the procedure for dealing with the issue, but I would like no one to be offended by the people on the list here, we will simply postpone the vote on this decision after the adoption, more faithfully, of the law that was discussed here. And in this regard, I ask you to support this motion for a postponement of the vote after the adoption of the law. Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[12:53:08]] For 375 It's a procedural question, 375 votes in favour. Thank you. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty Application in Ukraine is being considered under the second reading procedure. [[on bringing the law into line with actual criminal law]] As reported by Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, Head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, two weeks ago with more than 300 votes, we adopted in our first reading a bill amending the law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. He touched on the changes to three articles of the basic law. There were comments from the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as two deputies, myself and Mr. Vasil Evtukhov. They're accounted for, and I'd like to propose a law, a project as a law. And I also point out that the non-admission of this law inhibits the adoption of the amnesty law itself in 2006, which is awaited by convicted persons under trial and investigation. The committee supports the bill, the “Our Ukraine” faction, which I am presenting on the committee, also supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u90	Under the second reading procedure, we can only discuss amendments. All the amendments that are foreseen here are included. The committee considers them to be appropriate. If so, I have reason to vote on this law as a whole. Do you have any objections? None. So I'm voting on a draft law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. About making changes to this law. Registration 1152, you have it, please be sure. [[12:55:31]] For 403 Decision taken. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies is under consideration. [[on the reduction of the quorum of general congregations]] Registration number 1129. Reported to the head of the committee, the Committee on Economic Policy, Mr. Yuri Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that Bill 1129 was considered on first reading on 5 October this year and was approved on first reading. Since then, a number of amendments to the bill have been made, only 17. The Committee considered these amendments and, at its meeting, proposed acceptance of Amendment No. 12 and Amendment No. 15. The remaining amendments were proposed by the Committee for a number of reasons. The main reasons why the Committee proposes that the Supreme Council reject the amendment are a number of amendments, in particular amendments one, two, thirteen, fourteen, contrary to article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution and article 319 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Because they create different unequal conditions for property subjects. A number of amendments are subject to a separate bill and should not be taken into account in the present case. It's four, six, seven, eight, nine. Part of the amendments provide an opportunity to block the work of governance and corruption bodies among the officials who lead the enterprises. These are amendments three, five, ten, eleven. In connection with the foregoing, the Committee invites the Supreme Council to approve Bill 1129 in the light of Amendments 12 and 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u92	Thank you. Since the procedure provides for an argument on each amendment, I would like the authors of these amendments to express themselves about defending the need for what they are proposing. The first amendment made by Deputy Olijnik, I understand, is Vladimir Mikolaiovich, because this is the initial one. Does he insist on resisting his amendment? Don't insist. So he agrees that this amendment is rejected. Amendment number two, Deputy Galunenko made it, it was rejected, too. Regarding the authority of the general meeting of shareholders. Is there a Galunenko? Don't insist. He agrees. Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar insists. Please, the third amendment, look carefully, and he's making an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u93	Alexander Bondar, “Cobor” SRP, “Our Ukraine” faction. First of all, I'd like to make a note of the reporter, if you're accusing him of corruption, then give some arguments. You said my amendment created corruption. Now I'm going to read a comment from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which is repeating my amendment to each other, namely: The Chief Administration believes that this problem is better solved by not simply reducing the quorum of the general meetings of the household as proposed by the author, but by reducing the quorum of the re-community. I propose a democratic procedure. If there is a blockage, call back congregations and reduce the quorum. I think it's more appropriate than what you're proposing to do in fact to reduce the quorum. Even when there is no blockage, I would like to support my amendment and be correct when you come out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u95	In this case, I have explained the position of the Committee and also my personal position. “Corruption” means the following situation that allows for the existence of an enterprise if the amendment is taken into account, which is what is happening now. When a shareholder who does not own a control package, i.e. not the owner of the company, but buys for some money or for some services to the manager of the company, it creates the conditions for raising money from the enterprise. This is a widespread situation where the owner is not the owner, but the person who owns the small stock. That is why this topic was discussed on the Committee, which is what was discussed on the Committee. That's what I said here. As far as your position is concerned. I repeat what was said on the committee. If this amendment is taken into account, it will mean: the first, in order for the owner who has the right to decide at the meetings to decide, to decide that he will have a lift during a period of at least two months and you yourself said it yesterday. One. Second. Meetings may be blocked by persons who are not owners. Two. As a matter of fact, that's what's going on. This amendment will allow, for at least six months or more, the owner not to invest in the enterprise, not to develop it, and for persons who are not owners, at least six months will still be out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u96	I understood the position of the author of the legislative amendment and the profile committee. I'm voting on Bondar's proposal, set out in paragraph three in the comparative table. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[13:02:23]] For-173 This amendment is not supported. Amendment number four. The porter introduced it, and it was also rejected. He will insist on her stand up and give him the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy of Portnov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. You know, we've actually made some concessions to this bill, by also introducing a deversed way of lowering the quorum on certain issues, if that was the case. To protect public particles and particles. shareholders, we've offered a total of 25 percent quorum on dividend distribution. 50 percent of the quorum on annual results validation. 75 per cent on changes to the statute. Moreover, we insisted on specific changes related to the protection of the rights of minority shareholders and their representation on boards of shareholders, in audit committees. Why has none of these amendments been made? That's the first one. And the second question of breaking the Rules. There's a 14-day deadline in which we had to make proposals. Why is it broken again, where is the speed in this bill? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u98	About the 14-day term. It ended just yesterday and your amendment just came in minutes before the committee meeting. Therefore, all the amendments that the people's deputies could make had been submitted and had been considered. That's the first one. About your changes in essence that you've set out. I said that to the committee yesterday, and today I told your faction representatives that your drafting is the essence of a new separate bill that would protect minority shareholders, but not the essence of the bill. I mean, I'm ready to join you in drafting this new bill. We could call it, say, the Shareholder Society Act. For this reason, only because this particular subject, a separate bill, was rejected by committee members.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u99	Are you insisting on voting on your amendment? You insist, don't you? Then, please, the amendment of the Port State MP will be put to the vote. [[13:05:07]] For 172 There's not enough voices. But you don't get to be disappointed because, the reporter correctly said, this amendment, in principle, might be considered as a separate change to the law and you're working on it, and with the committee, I think you'll support it. Bo, over here. Indeed, there are logical proposals to differentiate the powers of the Council of Shareholders in solving various issues. Amendment No. 5 Mishtenka Sergija Grigorovich. Does he insist? Don't insist. Ports again 6 revisions, please. You're going to argue with her. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u100	I insist on voting. I've already said about all the actual adjustments in the same speech. Then we'll have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u101	Do you want me to vote on her yet? Well, I think since it duplicates the previous amendment, you shouldn't vote, and then let's take a look at it separately, it will support this proposal. Is the oily 7 correct? Note? You don't? Amendment 8. Ms. Sergey Grigorovich, she's rejected, but the author doesn't insist on defending her. Amendment 9. Meshchenka too. He doesn't insist. And 10, respectively. And the 11th amendment, Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, you will be, and we've already voted it, it's just the same in different articles. 12th, Galunenko. He doesn't insist. It's counted, it's counted, it's counted. The 13th Amendment of the Oily. Declined. Nor does he insist on her stand up. White, MP, 14th amendment, rejected. Is he going to make a statement? No, he won't deny it. And the 15th amendment is taken into account by the People's Deputy Prassolov. Two more amendments were rejected, 16th and 17th of Oliynika, Mishchenka, who are not trying to stand their ground. In view of the 12th and 15th amendments that have been taken into account, I am putting the whole law to a vote. Please make up your mind. [[13:07:53]] For 241 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas. [[on construction]] Reported to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Housing of Polachenko Vladimir Avrumovich. Please, Vladimir Avrumovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! In February of this year, the Supreme Council was adopted in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories. Regarding the qualifications of the builders when they are allowed to build. What a necessity the Supreme Council of the past called for by adopting this legislative act. The situation today is related to urban activity, and it has revealed significant flaws and gaps in Ukraine’s current legislation. Today, in Ukraine, any natural or legal person can buy or benefit from a land plot and only declare his or her intentions for future development. The absence of a city code, legislation that regulates the forward-looking development of the Human Settlements Act, which should contain clear requirements for zoning and other State legislative acts that regulate the basics of the city are severely damaging. And we, the experts, the members of the Supreme Council Committee on Construction and Construction, along with the Ministry of Construction, by the way, we now have a very productive relationship and cooperation, aware of our own responsibility for the earliest development of these legislative acts and the work on their creation began. At the same time, there is a problem that will not be solved in the near future, which can make the practical introduction of a new legislative framework more difficult in practice. The events that have taken place and are now continuing in the capital and more in soft displays are characteristic of the regional centers of Ukraine. This would not be a bad thing if the areas fell solely into the hands of responsible developers who would use them in line with the urban development strategy of the populace, directing investment flows into their timely adoption, taking into account the requirements of complex construction. Sadly, this is not the case in most cases. In Kiev, as well as in Kiev, hundreds of them are now at the hands of individuals and legal persons who often do not have their own capital, or their own manufacturing technical, technological, and other resources, or the experience of organizations and construction. An example is “Elita. ” Believe me, by the end of the year, there will be dozens more Elite in Kiev, and in the regions, unfortunately, there is a trend. And this already poses the most serious danger than simply complications for the population of the country to plan their future development. Because after obtaining a building permit, there are legislative possibilities for investing in the population in the construction process. And for the most part, that's what happens. And these people have to be assured that their funds have gone to the executives who are aware of the case they've taken. To do this, to create guarantees that the construction site will be constructed in a timely, qualitative and rigorous manner, the construction deadlines are proposed with new legislative standards that will be required of the builder when he is allowed to build -- I emphasize, not on the ground, but the building permit -- to provide information about his professional qualifications. I want to point out right away, it's not about restricting market access to offers of those or other operators, we're talking about creating conditions of fair competition solely on the basis of performance indicators. I predict that someone might have a question about creating artificial barriers for newly created organizations and firms that are just starting their activities in the chosen sphere. How can they be? That's more than right. And we put in the bill a rule that the final list of professional requirements will be within the three-month deadline set by the Cabinet of Ministers. This guideline will distinguish objects by complexity and technical issues solely in the interests of the cause and the creation of conditions of good competition. I used to set an example. Many MPs of the past are familiar with the MP Mhitarian. And I was saying that the firm that goes to the Dubai market has the right to build three-story houses for the first two years. Yesterday I asked “How are you building up there? ” on the phone. He says, "It's not the 3rd, it's the 2-story houses." But I think there's something else to talk about -- it's completely unwise to divide firms into big and small. Can you imagine that, for example, a watch company that is known for its brand value, such as “Lonjin”, which employs about 300 experts, will appeal to the First Moscow Clock Factory “Flight”, which employs thousands of craftsmen, as if it were a giant, hinders its market activity. Absurd! Different levels of class, different traditions, different orientations of market activity are all different. And it's not about where people work anymore, it's not about where people work anymore, it's about where there's no big and small businesses and organizations. It is likely that “Lonjin” would be offended if someone called it “a small company”, and he proved his right to be a market subject, his own marketing policy, his qualified level of expertise, and the reliability of production. And no one is stopping a small firm from becoming big. But I repeat, the question of the fate of the newcomers in the market, also the need for grading the requirements of different classes of objects, may arise. So what I was talking about was done. And going back to the basics, I'm going to say that this bill is going to create the conditions under which irresponsible builders who cherish dishonest intentions will think about it. There will be insurmountable difficulties at the end of the line. To those who can't confirm their qualifications for the implementation of the project of the relevant level, I stress that the corresponding level of complexity, in the right of implementation of this project, I stress that this level will be denied and that is fair. The house, the office center, the hotel, it's not a clock. The clock is used by one person in the house lives hundreds. Today, there are thousands of homes in Kiev. The measure of responsibility for their safety, their comfortable life in a full environment varies hundreds of thousands of times. Can you imagine a person who has a certificate of piloting a light aircraft, the same corn while in his right mind, sitting behind a transcontinental Boeing? Boeing's commander is also a pilot, but a pilot of quite different qualifications, completely different knowledge and experience. And he has the right to fly Boeing because he has learned and worked for it. And the pilot “AN-2” has the right to rule only “AN-2” and only “AN-2”. Again, we understand that if someone tried to break or lower the pilot selection system. Imagine the noise that would come and be completely vindicated, for everyone imagines that life is at stake. And I don't understand why we stand up for the value of life in the air, and the value of life on earth in some cases is willing to give ransom to nonprofessionals. Today, 1,200 people will live in the House of Poznaki. I very much expect that today you and I will approve the proposed Law, which was accepted by the committee, which were the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority in part two of article 24, the first, on the results of the audit of the relevant legal person in the previous financial year. As for part 4, article 24, paragraph 1, concerning the granting of financial services licences in the event of the involvement of other financial assets other than the financial assets of natural persons. These standards have been removed from the bill. At its meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Law on Change in the Law on Planning and Construction of Territories, registration number 0945-1, second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Avrumovich, for the meaningful report that goes beyond the procedure in second reading, but in substance it is useful because it gives people an idea of the essence of the law. You've only made one incorrect comparison. We had to compare "AN-2" to "AN-22" not "Boing," because "Ruslan" is a more complex machine, and it would be the protection of a domestic manufacturer. But it's a detail. Still. In the conclusions of the expert management, there is a point to the project. I realized that they were already included in the second reading. Counted, right? Then I turn to the authors of the proposals. Since they are all either editorially or in fact, literally, taken into account, I have questions for them, for Bertash, for Serbin and for other authors. Do you have any comments on these amendments? None. That's where the thought sounded. Perhaps something would not even have been taken into account here, but in fact, the clarification of this bill substantially reinforces the process of planning the construction of the territories and allows people to be protected from the apherists we have seen on numerous occasions as action. So there's a proposal, and there's a whole second reading to vote on this project. I'd like to ask you to support this proposal. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:19:14]] For-78 Or the MPs didn't get it. Do you understand? Then there is a second reading proposal, as suggested by the expert board, for a second reading to move the project forward and quickly prepare it for consideration. Please. Who's in? For the second reading again. [[13:19:57]] For 363 I'm asking Vladimir. And your committee, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, work with factions, explain the advantages of this project and take it to the next sessional week. It is absolutely necessary, and we need to speed up the adoption of this bill. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Youth and Children's Social Organizations, Registration No. 0919. Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction, secretary of the Youth Committee. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, the draft law prepared for the second reading is largely technical and is designed to amend two laws: the Youth and Children's Organizations Act and the Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine. All the amendments that were taken into account by the committee in the second reading. The point is to a few things. First, most of the amendments apply to this norm, because our legislation has raised the age of young people, who are determined by various social programs, benefits, and so on, from 28 to 35. This already exists in existing legislation and this norm is also European. It exists in many European countries. This brings into line a number of laws and increases this age, from which it is determined that a person belongs to the category “youth” from 28 to 35. This is one block of amendment of the people's deputies. There are also amendments that apply to membership in youth and child organizations and simply introduce a standard that allows membership to be both individual and collective in these social organizations. And it can also be fixed by membership and not fixed by the fact that social organizations are not parties, I think there are no major objections. There is also a new edition of the parts of the first - second article 10 of the Youth, Childhood, Public Organizations Act, which defines the ways of possible financial support for young people, children’s organizations by the State and local authorities. The committee unanimously recommended the adoption of the bill as a whole, I reiterate all the amendments taken into account, and any additional expenses from the State budget do not need these amendments. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u105	The second reading procedure applies in this case to amendments made to the draft law, but they are all taken into account. This is 14 amendments. So I realized that from 28 to 35 years of age it's spread to these age categories, and since I don't fall into this category, I obviously have to support this proposal, too. Dear National Deputies! There are no comments on these amendments, there is a proposal to support this project. Please bet on the vote. Registration number 0919, please. [[13:24:07]] For 379 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the release of judges from the Supreme Court of Ukraine is under consideration. Reports the head of the committee on justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u106	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on October 11, 2006, reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with their resignation. In their statements, the judges noted that they had written them voluntarily, without outside coercion. The Justice Committee supported the application of the Supreme Council of Justice and is introducing a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges from the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Which is registered by 2309 of October 11, 2006, and distributed to you. In connection with the application for resignation, release from the posts of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Bunin Alexander Ilich, Earthly Vasil Vasilovich, and Kyasko Anatolia Jakovic. The committee is asking for support for this draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u107	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Easy gets the word for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u108	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Sergey Vasilovich, we point out that not all the judges you propose to release today are not old, not very old. The idea is that in connection with the draft budget for the following year, in the event that it is accepted, these judges simply will not receive the initial assistance that they today have the opportunity to receive if they are released in advance. So tell me, isn't that the motive behind these judges' desire to release them? I'll say they can get a million out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u109	No, it's not. These judges Budin, Zemljena, and Kiyashko filed their statements in May. And the committee had just considered, first the Justice Council had considered it on July 12, 2006, and now the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u110	I see. I think that an MP who is deeply interested in such matters would be useful to find out, and who has made the salary the same as the outgoing “help”. You know? Well, that's good. Then you know and talk about it more. No, no, that's how I take it you know. I am putting to the vote a draft order for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, please. [[13:27:50]] For 365 Decision taken. We're going back to some of the questions with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, which is why we made the decision last sessional week. And that's why the Ukrainian Act on Social Rehabilitation of Persons affected by a Terrorist Act or a Diversion is now being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Rybak Sergey Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u111	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Constitution guarantees Ukrainian citizens equal rights and social protection in the event of full, partial or temporary loss of employment, loss of a breadwinner, unemployment and old age. The Act on Social Rehabilitation of Persons Affected by a Terrorist Act or Diversions, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provides for a set of measures for the medical, psychological, social and other rehabilitation of these persons. And the social protection of their families. In particular, the law proposes to provide, depending on the degree of damage, one - time financial assistance, which ranges from five to fifty living minimums and a monthly compensation of a minimum of living for the duration of the rehabilitation course. In case a person is disabled, he will be compensated for life-long money, ranging from half or one minimum of living, depending on the degree of disability. In the event of the death of a person as a result of a terrorist act or diversion, an antiterrorist operation is envisaged to pay a lump sum of 500 living minimum. In addition, benefits are provided for underage children who are granted access to higher education institutions. In addition, the proposed social protection measures for persons who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or a diversion and their families are not reparations for the damage suffered, and they also impose higher levels of State social guarantees compared to those currently granted to individual categories of Ukrainian citizens who have some merit in their home country. They're war veterans, labor veterans, Chaes disaster takers and all that. As a result, we believe that the adopted Law will lead to social tension in society, as it puts in unequal conditions other categories of citizens whose benefits, compensations and guarantees are foreseen, as well as those who have suffered from natural technological disasters. We believe that the protection of citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act, or a diversion, should be addressed in an appropriate way through the further development of the state insurance system in Ukraine. Taking into account the stated and socio-economic policies of the State aimed at gradually increasing the state's social guarantees. We believe that providing social protection for those affected by the terrorist act at the proposed scale cannot be implemented. In addition, I want to give you some of the sums that, depending on the degree of damage to one person, can amount to 290,000 dollars per year. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject the Ukrainian Act on Social Rehabilitation of Persons affected by a Terrorist Act or Diversion. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u112	Is there a question to the author of the report? There are two men, aren't there? Please, five minutes. Three! Six minutes. Please, Peter Stepanovich. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Sergey Alexanderovich, you just said, at the end of your report, you've given a specific number of what's at risk. I just wanted to ask you as a wish, let's be very careful with these numbers, because the previous head of your department scared us with millions of pensions and some other things. It's going all the way. And so you have to be very careful about calculating the numbers that you call today. It's as a wish, it's not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u114	Okay. The answer is not to be answered, but it is simply to be guided by what Peter Stepanovich said. For if it is said that the family will receive, let us say, 200,000 after the killing of the owner of the family, it is a penny, it does not go in any way, and the state must help the family. But that's another question. Please, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, then Vladimir, Bondarczuk Mikola, Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u115	Thank you. I want to agree with the report that this bill does not need to be supported, but with other motivations a little bit, not just for financial reasons, because everyone understands that if a tragedy in any person or family, the state should help. But there's another motive. We're talking about victims as a result of terrorist acts or diversions, as well as victims as a result of anti-terrorist operations. You know what we're talking about? The state has to pay for non-professional activities of security forces or military personnel, which improperly carry out anti-terrorist operations, resulting in victims. Clearly, then, we cannot accept such an approach. And I express my support for what the reporter said.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u116	Right. There is no need to comment. Ivan Mikolaiovich, your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u117	I would like to clarify, Deputy Bondarczuk, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, how many persons will this law touch in the event of adoption? Because, in principle, citizens should have some protection from their own state in case of terrorist acts, or diversions, etc.?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. To calculate the number of persons, of course, is difficult, so once again we would like to emphasize that this is not about the amount of payments. I fully agree with the people's deputies. It's about social justice, it's about other categories of citizens. Hence, it is from these motives that we propose to support the President’s proposals and not to any extent to the extent that the amount of payments will be one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Please sit down. Please sit down. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich of the Committee of Thought will express himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u120	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, as colleague Shevchuk noted, the problem is also in the budget. But it's not just that. And the committee on law enforcement agrees with the President's proposals, and proposes to reject the law. But not so much for the lack of funds in the budget, because this year it's 180 billion dollars' worth of revenue. Because these issues are already regulated by valid legislation. The Terrorism Act, article 20 of which stipulates that the order of social rehabilitation of persons affected by a terrorist act is marked by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And to implement this law, article 20 of the Anti-Terrorism Act, in July 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed a decree approving the order for the social rehabilitation of persons affected by the terrorist act. So if we were to approve or uphold this law, we would have different regulations on these social relationships. This law, which we are considering today, is defined in the law, and the Anti-Terrorism Act is committed to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So, the Committee on Law Enforcement and Our Ukraine faction, which I represent on the Committee, asks for the support of the President's proposals and for the rejection of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u121	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Yes. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u122	I'd like to make it clear. Well, since every time there is a terrorist act or a diversion, the State provides assistance to a particular family, a particular citizen. So whether it's inappropriate to standardize this practice so that everyone already knows the apriori and is confident that if he stumbles on his family or on his own, that he has to count on something rather than walk, beat and beg. Because in one case, they give, and in the other, they don't give.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, indeed, under Roman law the law is a binding of established custom. So we don't have to wait for the law to be written so that there will be terrorist acts and we'll protect people. These cases, thanks to God and authority, are not in the state right now, and others, as I have pointed out, are already settled by law. So if, God forbid, something you say will happen, man will have protection from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Ivan Mikolaiovich, you're asking such a hard question that some people might suspect you, so. Let's solve the question of essentially repealing a law that was passed and not signed, and the reasoning of the committee and the rapporteur is that we have to listen in this case to the President's proposal. I ask you to support the proposal to repeal this law. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:39:55]] For 338 Decision adopted, 338 votes in favour. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine is being considered with proposals from the President. But there's this detail. The rapporteurs request that we be able to discuss this issue again on the committee, since it is in itself a very difficult issue. Whoever was in the mountainous settlements may say that this law needs to be treated very carefully. And it would be a mistake if we, let's say, formally approach this issue. So I ask you to vote on the passing of this law to the next sessional week. Please. [[13:41:02]] For 365 That is the decision to make. A draft Law amending article 69 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. Again, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, reports. Your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u125	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to start by saying that two weeks ago I reported this bill, everyone supported it, including the Party of Regions, and the vote showed that only 142 votes. Alexander Alexander Moroz was surprised and asked the leader of the “Regions” faction, Mikhail Chechtov: what happened? Mikhail Vasilovich replied that the same bill, a drop in a drop, is from the Cabinet of Ministers. So he wants that Law to be upheld. There is no objection, but, Mikhail Vasilovich, on August 4, this year's new government called off all the bills, to the extreme extent, that touched the faith of our committee. There is no such bill, but if it were, there would be other changes than adding the word “small” to article 69. So the definition of the Law, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which came into force on September 1, 2001, defined four categories of crimes: small, medium, serious and particularly serious crimes. Article 69 of the Criminal Code, in its original form, provides for the possibility of sentencing below the lowest limit for crimes of average gravity. For it is difficult and especially difficult and does not allow it to be done for crimes of minor gravity. This was noted by the Constitutional Court, according to the plenary of the Supreme Court, and was declared unconstitutional. So I propose, on the basis of the Law, to accept the amendments to article 69, to add the word “small” and all. And for you, Alexander Alexanderovich, I'd like to ask Michael Vasilovich to raise the hand he needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u126	The question is to the reporter? There's a Sulkovsky question. Please give him the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u127	You know, Alexander Alexanderovich, I've known Mr. Moysik a long time ago as a decent, honest, beautiful friend. That's why he became mine, and I'm his friends. But that's what I'm gonna ask you right now, my friend. You can't humiliate the national MPs of the coalition like we're all voting on giving the speaker team. That's not right. You asked the wrong question. And that's why we're probably going to make you vote, we were in favour of voting for this bill. And now I urge you not to vote in favour of this project on the principle of your conduct in the rostrum to us as national deputies. And we're going to force you to come back again after a certain deadline for this project, and you're going to ask the national MPs to support this bill in a very different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u128	Paul Ignatovich, I'm not asking you for anything. This is bad for the conductor, please do it. The wave of my hand was on my bill. That's what I said. The rest of you are in faction order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u129	Volodymyr Romanovich, what Paul Gnatovich said, I don't even understand. He says they're voting on the speaker's orders. If that is the case, it is the right thing to do. Because I'm still going to analyze the drafts before that. But it's a joke. You understand. In this case, it's not about, say, the validity or invalidity of Vladimir Romanovich's statement; it's about the content of the law. I mean, I wouldn't want us to use such influences when there's no objection to it, there's no objection to the law. And so I would like to support the draft law proposed by Vladimir Romanovich. There's no warning to him. Do you have a note? Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, for a lineup or for an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u130	I would like to address the distinguished speaker. The Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, like all factions of the coalition, always vote consciously and always with the interests of the State and people. Unlike some others. Therefore, in this situation, the economic feasibility and feasibility of the country and the coalition will be the focus of the bill's adoption and voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u131	I'll put the bill on the ground. Please. First reading. [[13:46:55]] For 363 Decision taken. For the second reading, there is a need. And the MPs don't have any comments? There's only one. Is it? Then let's take it to the second reading. Not after that? Then why are you raising your hand? Have a seat, please. No comments are available on this project. Can we all announce it? Is there a note in Sulkowski? Give him your word. So you have a comment on the project, right? So the first reading decision is to prepare a project for the second reading. We have a block of questions. You're in the middle of the day, it's foreseen, draft laws that are being considered for a reduced procedure. Such a proposal by the Conciliation Board, but this procedure should be confirmed by a vote. Therefore, I propose draft laws amending the Law on Value Added Tax, the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Customs Tariff, the Law on Renting State Property and Municipal Property, the Act on Concessions, the Act on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine concerning State registration and the laws on granting State aid in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, and also on amending certain legislation on the registration of transport vehicles, to be considered on short notice. I'm asking you to make up your mind on this. Procedure. [[13:48:51]] For 316 That's the procedure. Thus, the draft law is first considered by such procedure. On the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax on the Tax Rate for the Purchase of Wheels for Persons with Disabilities. Ukrainian National Deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich will report, please. 15 minutes? Let's keep going if we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! A few words about the history of this issue. By 2005, the government was in line with paragraph 5 of the Added Cost Tax Act. Imported goods that were exempt from VAT and were assigned to persons with disabilities, including light cars with manual control. Never in the Soviet Union has such cars been taxed in years of independence. In the 2005 budget, VAT payments were eliminated, and I am sure, purely mechanically, that list included light cars with manual controls for people with disabilities. In the past call, we, if you remember, were trying to correct this obvious abnormal situation, but the President’s veto was not able to overcome that six votes. Our bill with Teryochyn and Saintes envisions exemption from the taxation of transactions in the supply of cars for disabled persons purchased at the expense of the State Budget. I will point out that a working group was working on the bill as decided by the Committee on Finance and Banking. Thus, the original text currently included in chapter one was attached to the second section on humanitarian aid. To reach consensus and agree on all the issues, I agreed to do so and not allow the veto to happen today. First. Bill 2064 we've called off several times, please don't be surprised, we've called it off to agree with the Ministry of Finance and our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The other one. The law introduces rules that do not make corruption and abuse impossible when dealing with disabled cars. And the last. Dear colleagues! A little bit of an emotion in Ukraine, about 3 million. disabled people. In turn, it is estimated that some 155 grand will be used to obtain cars according to various medical reports. And the letters that come to the people's deputies in Ukraine say that this problem is simply from some medical, social, political and economic point of view. In 2005, only 5,000 people were disabled. 517 cars. The adoption of the bill will contribute to: (a) costing the purchase of such cars; (b) contributing to the growth and number of cars allocated for almost a third of a year. Thus, if we adopt this bill, from 1 January 2007, when it takes effect, the authorities responsible for the purchase of such cars will not pay VAT, it will allow for a third increase in the number of citizens who will receive such cars. And the proposal, to date, I, as one of the authors, have received a number of objections, substantial objections, both from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate and from the Ukrainian National Deputies, regarding the fact that the text of this bill contains two bills. That's why I'm introducing, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, the proposal, I know that the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, because all issues are in agreement with Minfin. I'm making a proposal to the second, to take the basis for the first part of this bill, which only applies to the exemption from VAT for the purchase of light cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u133	I got it. It is just about buying cars for the disabled, not about humanitarian aid. From the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The Communist faction of Cibenko. Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons Alexander Alexandrovich, a committee on pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons, was appointed a second committee for the bill. Indeed, the problem is that of the disabled. I went here today to the meeting room of the Supreme Council with the commission of the committee to insist on the transfer of this document. But the option that Jaroslav Mikhailovich offered is really acceptable, because it's aimed, in fact, at spending, and since it's increasing the number of cars and helping people with disabilities. And with only one condition to accept it in the first reading, so that during the preparation of the second reading, there are things there that cause some doubt. The second part of humanitarian aid is the way we cannot accept it today. We can't have her on the committee any more than 10 references to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u135	Thank you. There is procedure two “for”, two “against”. Who is “in favor ” of such a project? Green – “for”, red – “against”. Sign up. Vitenko and Bondarczuk are the only “pro” speakers. Please. Surrender the word Suškević asks that Vitenko be transferred from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I ask very much what Suhi said to the protocol that we are adopting this bill without the second part that affects humanitarian aid. There are conclusions from the Scientific and Experimental Authority that violate legislation, the Budget Code, and today it cannot be adopted. This is to make it essential for the protocol we've adopted. Otherwise, a positive law solves the problems of the disabled, in the first part. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first part only.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u138	Deputy Bondarczuk faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, our committee of social policy and work supported the bill in the paper proposed by Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi, and we believe that it is necessary to accept it without a second purity today. Indeed, it is a very big problem, and I think people's deputies directly, and those who work in district district government have dozens of, without exaggeration, references to this very topic every day. Because if in the "restraint", as we say for years, disabled people received tens of thousands of cars each year in Ukraine, and especially in the area, 1,000-1200 cars each year were given these disabled cars, which allowed them to update the park in a 5-6 year normal way, then in years, unfortunately, an independent Ukraine, there was a turn in the area, and today we only have disabled cars in the area that have been in line since 1995-1996, at best. So I think it may not be necessary to open the debate here, to vote, to support the bill in that edition, which Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-19-m0.u139	Since there was no desire to oppose this bill, I reiterate, the first part is just being considered and the first reading is being adopted. If we vote it out, I'll put this proposal to the vote. [[13:58:14]] For 384 John Mikolaiovich rightly addressed the words of the great combinor: “The dispute here is inappropriate. ” There's a break until 4:00. Thank you.
