ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:24]] There are 388 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 The Rules, Friday we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies, make proposals, make requests, make applications, and report. Please sign up for the performance. Please listen to the results of the February 9th plenary session of the Supreme Council. We discussed 30 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result, 12 laws and 11 regulations were passed. One bill is aimed at drafting, and two bills and five draft regulations have been rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, one law has been repealed. Yes, please listen to the parliamentary questions. A parliamentary request came from Igor CHELOMBITZ to the President of Ukraine for the maintenance of the legality and protection of the interests of the Ukrainian producer in the implementation of the calculations of the state-owned enterprises of the Republic of Moldova for the goods imported from Ukraine. I vote in favour of the President's request. [[10:04:12]] For-12. Apparently, it's not enough. Sergey SOVOLEVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of violating the requirements of legislation when making inquiries. Victor PETROVA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the existence of corruption in the actions of the First Deputy Chief of the Viennese Observance, to remove the infringement of the legitimate rights of shareholders of the “Julinska specialise in the “Agrorash” enterprise of the Bershad region of Winnitz. Mr. Stanislawa KOSINOVA to the prime minister's responsibility to create a domestic vaccine against avian influenza. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the prime minister's responsibilities in solving the problems of the former Uzin Aviation Base. EXAMPLE OF CATUSH’S to the prime minister’s duties regarding violations of the rights of a war invalid. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's duties regarding violations during the privatisation of Odessa kinostudi. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science and Minister of Culture and Tourism for the purpose of addressing the school librarians of the Poltavian region as regards their status. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE OF THE prime minister’s responsibilities to include emergency objects in the city of Žitomir in the 2006 List of Objects to be financed by the State Budget Subvention. A group of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties to ensure social rights and guarantees for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[KYRIČENKO, HOTININIK, STRAIGHT AND OTHERS]] Anatolya MOROZA to the Prime Minister's responsibility to finance the debt provision of children of war under the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006. John TOMIĆA to the prime minister’s responsibility to implement compensatory mechanisms to keep milk prices purchased from dairy producers. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the prime minister's responsibility to return the deposits to the clients of the Savings and the Ukdrödrzech Strait, which were introduced to these financial institutions in early 1992. John BASTRIGA to perform the Prime Minister's duties on the environmental situation in the area of the resort of State importance “Kurort Berdjansk”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy to clarify the increase in pensions, payment and compensation. Alexander Goluba to the prime minister's duties of conducting a water-to-shutting tour of the Ostapa High Street in Donetsk. Jurya BOJKA to the prime minister’s responsibility to regulate activities and fund the state of charities — shelters, hospitals, rehabilitation centers set up by religious organizations. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the prime minister’s duties regarding inadequate financing of flood management in the Zakarpatsk region. Aleksandra ŠEVCHENKA to the prime minister’s duties of unwarranted increase in sugar prices. FIXA to the prime minister, the Attorney General, on the inaction of officials responsible for overcoming the state of emergency in the city of Colkina of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Katerina SAMOLIK to the prime minister's duty to violate the requirements of legislation and the rights and legitimate interests of the owner of the meliority system, the territorial community of the village of Novotatalovka in the Herson region, as well as the citizens who own irrigated land, land users and the State as the owner of the stock. Igora SHAROVA to the Prime Minister's duty to implement the provisions of the law on the social protection of children of war. Alexander ABDULLIN's responsibility to the Prime Minister as regards the appeal of an open stock company, the Tomash Town Chamber, to the formal approach to establishing the size of taxes for the use of nadrama. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, on the prohibition by the Russian Federation of imports of all animal products from Ukraine. [[Rich, Round, ISAIAH, and others]] Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the prime minister’s responsibilities regarding the status of Ukrainian citizen to individual residents of the Hersonian region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the Prime Minister’s duties to honor Colonel Peter Bolbocan’s memory, who wanted to build an independent Ukrainian state with a strong professional army. Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties to restore the tanning of the village of Karpilovka in the region of Chernigiv. [[COMAR, SLAUTA, JANKOVSKI AND OTHERS]] Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties to activate the Government's activities in the area of the restoration of meat-milk supply to Russia. [[BASILY, ISAIAH, HOLY, AND OTHERS]] Vitalia OLUIKA to the prime minister's duties regarding the reasons for the underfunding in 2005 of State Budget subsidies to local budgets for the construction of pipelines and gasification of populated sites. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the prime minister, the Attorney General, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the increase in the price of the primary market for apartments above the cost of housing. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties to acquire equipment at the University Clinic at the Donetsk State Medical University of Gorykowo. [[SLAUTA, RIMMARUK, AND OTHERS]] Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister's responsibility to allocate one percent of the funds from the privatisation of the “Cruvoristals” to Kriubas. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties regarding the conditions for children from the affected Alcevska to be treated to sanatoriums. [[Rich, Vassil, and others]] Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister's responsibility to reach an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Moldova to authorize the formation of ice transfers instead of boats, in connection with the freezing of the Dniester River, taking into account the daily need to cross the state border of citizens living in border areas. The Group of Deputies to the Acting Prime Minister for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “On the Unqualified Action of Executive Authorities for Consumers of Ukraine by Natural Gas” regarding the release of the Head of Government of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Yvchenka. [[LAPINE, FINAL AND OTHER]] GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, concerning the illegal alienation of state property in favour of the closed-circuit airline Airworld in Borispol Airport. Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties of respect for the legitimate rights and social protection of children of war. [[WOODS, TURNS, AND OTHERS]] Katerina SAMOLIK to the Acting Prime Minister, Attorney General, on the facts of the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the house on the street of Lenin, Herson. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the formation of the non-completion of the gasification of the villages of the Beresov district of Odessa. Anatoly of Korczynski to the Acting Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the groundless delay in the recalculation of pensions to former members of the Kelmenac Customs. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK was responsible for violating the laws on television advertising by Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General’s Office in connection with the situation that took place in the market of the “Push ” city of Herson. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General on the facts of the improper investigation of the criminal case concerning the falsification of documents by officials of the agricultural cooperative “Friendship” of the Bilozer region of the Herson region. Anton KISSE to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of the labour team of the State Enterprise Odeski Ship Repair Plant “Ukraine” and the corruption of officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for falsification by the procurator of the Kirovograd district of the criminal case against the resident of the city of Kirovgrad of Roman Sweden. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Attorney General for improper reaction by the management of the SBU to a parliamentary appeal regarding the actions of the Romanian City Department of the Management of SBU in the Sumski district. Mr John BASTRIGA to the Attorney-General, Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Violations of Legislation, with limited responsibility for “Financial Advisory Centre for Promoting Enterprise Development”. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General on the re-checking of the activities of the Director of Agriculture Society with limited responsibility for “Bilaškovsky” in the Winnitsky region. Levka LUKJANENKA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful interference of the deputy head of the Ukraine’s secretariat, Matvienka, in the activities of the district administrations of the judiciary, during the registration of the political party “Coverus”. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of the Herson Interterritorial Environmental Prosecutor’s Office regarding the deputies of the Zburije Rural Council of the Golan region. Ms. Olexiyuka to the Attorney General, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Council of Judges on the threat to the rights of owners of the Open Shareholders Association Kyivmisknaftof product and the legal assessment of corruption by the judge of the Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Lidija Mazur. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA, Human Rights Commissioner for the violation of legislation by a limited-liability society “Selenia Software Ukraine”. Vladimir Paka and Sergey ŽIŽKA to the Attorney-General, acting Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the conscious breakdown of the leadership of the National Energy Company, implementing fire safety measures for the Ukrainian AES and lobbying the interests of the closed association Rady. Alexander KARENKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Defense’s duties in connection with the deployment of a radio station in the city of Konotap Sumsk. MICHAEL SETINE to the Attorney General for violating electoral legislation by the Prosecutor’s Office in the Zakarpat district against the candidate for the village headship of the village of Tereswa Volodymira Palinkash. Mr. KUKARCHUKA to the Attorney General about the audit of the business. VICTOR MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General for improper reaction by the prosecutor’s authorities to the repeated appeal of a citizen named Kovalevski. Vitalia MOYKA to the Attorney General regarding the Open Shareholder Society “Saturn Science and Production Company”. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney-General on the misconduct of officials of the Luhansk District Prosecutor's Office regarding a citizen on trial. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General in connection with the failure to respond to a parliamentary request to protest the district attorney. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the illegality of the decision of the Lviv City Council to terminate the mandate of the Lviv City Head for the term of office. [[CHAROV, BONDARCHUK, HELLEN AND OTHERS]] Igor Schurmi to the Attorney General for refusing to commit a criminal offence on the grounds of official negligence against officials of Kama, the Bus Production Authority of the main gas pipelines in the event of death. Anatholia PISTARENKA and Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney-General to prevent the administration of the Ministry of Defence from building the trade complex in the village of Avantgard Ovidiopil district of Odessa, which is being carried out by the U.S. Civil Service Organization of the Second Assignment Reserve. FIXA to the Attorney General on the illegal placement of offices in the large apartment buildings of the city of Colkina of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vadim MISURA to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the illegal eviction of families of military personnel from the “ECOS” State Enterprise, without the provision of other accommodation. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Attorney General, Head of the State Main Foundation, Acting Minister of Agrarian Politics, for the removal of the leadership of the Zarubin alcohol plant in the area of Ternopil. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for violating the right of a national deputy to obtain reliable information on measures to halt violations of the law, an improper examination of a parliamentary request for violation of the rights and legitimate interests of foreign investors, a hindrance by officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Donetsk area of investigation into the circumstances of fraud and illegal economic activity. Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General regarding the situation surrounding the granting of the parish land of St. Michael’s Archistritique to the Ukrainian Autokefal Orthodox Church, M. Tsurupinski, Hersonian. MICHELLE AND SERGEY SLABENKA to the Attorney General on the investigation of a criminal case involving the burning of national hostility and the distribution of fascist symbols in the city of Donetsk. a group of deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of the right of prosecution in the court of decisions, actions or omissions of public authorities. [[MacKEENKO, LAPIN, COMAR]] Vassila Nadraghi to the Attorney General about the illegal eviction from the residence of the resident of Odessa Gradník. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General regarding the delay by the Prosecutor's Office in investigating a criminal case involving the acquisition of the savings in the “Cox” loan association. Mr. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General for the abuse of office as Prosecutor of the Krolewetsky district of Suma District of Snida. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the issue of an invalid state act on land ownership and the involvement of those responsible for fraud. OLEXIJUKA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Court of Appeal for the protection of the interests of the minority shareholders of the UkrNafta Society. Ms. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors on the issue of pressure by officials of the Office of the Board of Directors in the Sumskie Region and the Prosecutor's Office on the activities of the district opposition political parties participating in the March 2006 elections. Vitalia MOYKA to the Attorney General for the deleted documents of the “LadaExport South” Society Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, the Zaporezian City Head, on the inadmissibility of violating the constitutional rights of the faithful Ukrainian Orthodox Church and repealing the decision of the Zaporez City Council on the construction of a entertainment centre in a holy place for the construction of the “Christ the Savior” Council. [[Kyiv Patriarchat]] Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs’s duties regarding the inaction of officials of the Tachiv District Department of Internal Affairs of the Zakarpat region and the legal assessment of the beating of members of the Party of the Regions. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for preventing the use by law enforcement agencies of torture and political persecution against a citizen of Stuckkin. [[HOMUTINIC, KILLING, AND OTHERS]] Group of Deputies to the Attorney-General on the legal assessment of non-compliance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Unqualified Actions by Executive Authorities from Consumers of Ukraine by Natural Gas on the discharge of the perpetrator of duties. [[JANKOVSKI, HOLY AND OTHERS]] The Minister of Justice and the use of appropriate measures. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of the law by Judge Muchakov of the District Court. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Health’s responsibility to prevent a gross violation of the constitutional right to life and health of the people of the city of Balta Odessa district, to stop the illegal construction of a gas station at the intersection of Uvarova and Tkachenko. Ms. Aleksandra ŠEVČENKA to the Attorney-General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs in relation to the group of Agrostar companies in the Berisslav region of the Hersonian region. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General on the abuse of the position of co-workers of the prosecution and the Office to Combat Organized Crime of the Dnipropetrov region, as well as the improper investigation of a criminal case. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Head of the State's Foundation for the return to the State of the illegally privatized basis of the Forest Tale, located in the village of Czystórodka in the region of Kiev, and the cessation of violations of the constitutional rights of the family of many-year-old political prisoner Oresta Vascul. MICHELLA CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the involvement of officials in the city of Alchevska Luhanské district in connection with the breakdown of the heat supply network. MICHELLE OF THE U.S. Department of Transport and Liaison in connection with the situation in the city of Kirovograd. Larissa VAZAČENKO to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster in Cancellation of the Order of Nonadmission to the day-to-day Education at the Cerkas Fire Safety Institute, following the State Order of Women. Eugene FYLINDASHA to perform the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market on the activities of the Open Association of Kyiv MetroBud. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice’s duty to not execute the court’s decision by the executioners of the State Executive Service. A group of deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs’ responsibilities as regards the inactivity of the law enforcement agencies. [[AGREEMENT, CHEVCHEN, FOOD, AND OTHERS]] MICHELLE NOKNOWN to perform the duties of the Ministry of Transport and the failure to comply with the obligations of improving the service of citizens at the Sum district’s Deaf Railway Station. Ms. Volodymira CHAPPETIN is responsible for the Ministry of Justice’s failure to execute a court decision. VYACHESLAVA DOUBIAN to the Minister of Finance’s responsibilities in support of small business entrepreneurs. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on Coastal Reinforcements in the Sassiuk village of the Svalava district of Zakarpatsk. a group of deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs for public charges issued to candidates in the People’s Party of the Regions. [[DEMOCHIN, ZUBANOV, LAPIN]] MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the Pension Fund’s Government for the Protection of the Constitutional Right to Pension Insurance, a citizen of Nosach. Olga KOBECZ to the Health Ministry’s responsibility to increase the cost of purchasing medical equipment for hemodialysis and repairing the relevant branch of the Zaporez district clinic. THE Minister of Labour and Social Policy’s responsibility to establish and recalculate the disability of the first group of residents of the village of Pokotylovka Kharkiv district. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute the court's decision to pay the employee's salary to the stockholder's “Harkovska macaroni factory”. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing’s position on the Ministry’s rights as an investor. GOVERNMENT to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Head of the Dnipropetrov District State Administration, on the unsatisfactory state of supply of drinking water for the inhabitants of Ordjonikidze. Tamara Proscuratou to the Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Kyrovograd District Government, on the inaction of the public authorities in rebuilding the school’s premises in the village of Malopomicna Novokrajina. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute a court decision for five years. Mikli RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Minister of Transport and Communications, Director-General of the State Railway Administration, Ukrzalznica, for the restoration of the power train of Chernigów-Kyiv. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Minister of Defence’s duties regarding the preservation of military institutions at regional level. John YVANCHO to perform the duties of the Minister of Justice as to the legality of the registration of identical newspapers in the Zakarpatsky region. Mikhail Kosiv to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing for Anti-Available Works in connection with the outstanding monument of architecture – the Church of St. Nicholas in Belz Lvivsk district, whose 100-year anniversary is the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Teams of deputies to the Minister of Education and Science’s duties regarding the purchase of a computer class for the residential-communal college of the city of Dryzkowka Donetsky district. [[STOPPING, HOLY AND OTHERS]] TAMAR OF THE Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Agrarian Politics to try to close the Dnipropetrov University Technology College. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the Minister of Justice’s duties regarding the legality of payment of premiums to employees of the administration of justice and the unpaid payment of funds to employees of the State’s executive service in the district of Ravensk in 2005. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the violation of the Law on Citizens’ Appeal by a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the city of Uzhgrad. To the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Vladimir YAVORIYS is responsible for the work of the Minister of Agrarian Politics. failed negotiations with the Russian Federation on the export of meat and milk products that can be avoided by concentrating on the support of its own producer, filling the domestic market with cheap products that will be gratefully accepted by fellow countrymen. A group of deputies to the Minister of Education and Science's duties to improve the construction of the Friends' Housing and Utilities College. [[ISAIAH, RIMMARUK, AND OTHERS]] John MIHOVIĆA to the Secretary of the RNBO regarding the misconduct of the Minister of Defense and the demands of the public for his resignation. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the Auditorium on the spending of the State Committee on Veterans in the Poltava region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the State Committee on Financial Monitoring to provide information on the activities of the offshore Cypriot firm and its shareholder, Yulia Timoshenko, in schemes for the laundering of “dirty” funds in the case of ex-Prime Minister Pavel Lazarenko. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Head of the Holdingin Foundation for the threat of closure in Chernivka “Centre of Trauma and Orthopaedia” because of the refusal of the Ministry of Transport and the liaison to enter into a lease agreement on the premises where the Centre is located. The branch of the ŽIŽKA to the Head of the SBU, the Attorney General for the corruption of the head of the Rakhiv Reich administration, particularly the pressure on the district’s chief architect. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the appeal of shareholders of the Ukrainian-Russian Shareholders Association "Friendly Gas Plant". ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Head of the Accounting Chamber on the verification of the use of State budget subsidies for 2005 for the preparation and marking of the 750th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lviv. Jury BOJKA to the Head of the National Television and Radio Board for the creation of a “peace agreement” with channel leaders for the broadcast of football champions in Spain, Italy, England instead of the disgusting entertainment shows that spoil the moral and character of Ukrainians. Mikoli MELNIKA to the Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor, the Head of the DPA, the Head of the State Quality and Certification Inspectorate of Agricultural Products for the violation of the requirements of quality and food safety legislation in the production of milk by cow society with limited responsibility “External dairy plant”. MICHAYLA VOLINZA TO the Head of the Supreme Court for a violation of the terms of the appeal. VADIM MISSURA to the Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the violation of the requirements of the Housing and Utilities Act, the local authorities in Kharkiv. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the purpose of refusing to invite an observer mission from the SND to the 2006 election. [[MAKEENKO, LAPIN, SLAUTA AND OTHERS]] Group of deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the inability to vote on Ukrainian citizens living in the Republic of Moldova and for the violation of their electoral rights. [[KILCHEN, CERNOVIL, SULKOVSKI AND OTHERS]] THE head of the Donetsk district government, Donetsk city head, for ignoring citizens’ appeals regarding the inadequate housing situation in the Vorosilov district of Donetsk. Igora ŠURMI to the Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration on the obstacle to the activities of the Medical Institute “Advisory and Diagnostic Center “Hope” in the Hmelnicki district. Nestor SHUFFRICH to perform the duties of the Supreme Council of Justice to bring to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the judge of the Yaltin City Court of Earth in connection with its violation of the oath. Jurya RUCA to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the Development of Transport Infrastructure. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Chief of the Department of Internal Affairs in Kharkiv district regarding the violation of law enforcement by law enforcement officials. Mr. Alexander Tkalenka to the Prosecutor of the Hersson Region, Head of the Grand Alexander Reich of the Hersson Region, on the legality of the creation and registration of the agricultural society with a limited responsibility “Lord” in the village of Grand Alexander. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the city’s Kiev head for the retraining of the children’s clinic in the Obolon region. Petra KUZIMEN to the Head of State Customs, Chief of the Chop Customs, on the illegal actions of the employees of the Chop Customs during the passage of the Customs post “Tisa” of the Society’s limited liability “Optima-Farm”. Thus, the honourable colleagues received 136 parliamentary inquiries. According to factions: “Regions of Ukraine” - 23, Communists of Ukraine – 22, “Our Ukraine” – 12, People's Party – 9, Block of Timoshenko – 9, Social Party – 10, People's bloc of Lithuania – 4, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 7, People's Movement – 3, Rebirth – 3, Political Party “Reforms and Orders” – 5, “One Ukraine” – 3, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs – 4, non-fractional – 3. [[united]] Yes, now 30 minutes. Please, Assadchev, prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Vladimir Stupak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u3	Please, Vladimir Stupak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u4	Vladimir Stupak, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, distinguished voters! My statement from the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush refers to the issue of the inviolability of members of different levels and of the Supreme Council and local councils. This is a disgraceful phenomenon by which prosecutors and courts have stopped dealing with many cases of economic crimes committed by managers of different levels. Many such examples can be cited. In particular, I'd like to introduce them to the Chernigiv region. For example, Deputy Ivan Gushha, director of TOV “Zednianské” in the village of Birino, sold a private entrepreneur about 900 cubic meters [900 cubic metres] of construction forest by 5 rubles per cubic meter. According to Montenegro’s interdisciplinary prosecutor, he damaged nearly 1 million dollars. These funds were to go to the State Budget, as well as to those companies where the forest was purchased. There are many such examples. A recent session of the Montenegrin District Council, held on January 24, along with other issues, discussed the filing of the district attorney’s office with regard to the granting of consent to the criminal responsibility of the four deputies of the district councils. This is a member of the Novgorod-Northern District Council, deputy of the Coroban District Council, director. Alexander Kovalenko's liquor plant, accused of hiding 4 million dollars from paying taxes to the budget. In the district council session, Vladimir Litwin, head of the Supreme Council, took part. Thus, with his involvement, the district council did not permit the criminalization of the four deputies of the district councils charged with the theft of state funds. And these people continue to work, and they are helped by this parliamentary immunity. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka now hold meetings of citizens around Ukraine, where initiative groups are formed, in order to hold a referendum, collect the necessary number of signatures and hold a referendum to eliminate the inviolability of members of the Supreme Council, members of all levels, as well as judges and all those who have immunity in our country. Untouchableness needs to be removed. Everyone has to be equal before the law. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka invites the Supreme Council to consider the drafts under the headings 7732-4, 7732-5, the authors of which are the national deputies Valerius Assadchev and John the Rabbit, which refer exactly to the difference of inviolability for members of the local councils. But this also applies to the members of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka urges the Supreme Council to undo the intrusiveness of all the untouchables in our country. All citizens must be equal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u5	Vadim Gurov. Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u6	Vadim Gurov, Kriubas, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I remind you that on December 14, last year, we made a very wise decision, and I passed a law on the accounting of 1% of the funds received from the privatisation of the "Criminals" for the needs of the inhabitants of the city of the Horn of Crimson. It was a just decision. The president of Ukraine signed the law and it went into effect. In fact, with more than 10 bills on the distribution of funds from the “Criminalis” in Parliament, the only thing that has been passed is that the fellow MPs have well understood that the inhabitants of the Horn of Creature are by no means the last authority on the distribution of funds from the sale of the enterprise, because they have created its powerful potential with their hands and certainly deserve to improve the ecological and socio-economic situation in the city at the expense of the funds received. The funds provided by law are essential to the city and its surrounding rural areas, and they are very urgent to address environmental, social, economic, and other issues. Doctors, schools, sports facilities, other institutions, and organizations depend on the normal life - style of the city and its inhabitants. January has passed, but the money to the Horn of Curve has not yet arrived, even though the law on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine literally states that it “counts within three working days of the date of entry into force of this law”. Why the government does not comply with the law, because the privatisation of the “Criminals” itself was approved. The President and Government of Ukraine and they signed the Supreme Council’s law, took on both moral and legal obligations to give the hypocrites what is lawful and timely. Has Alcevsky’s terrible example taught us nothing? Can active authorities allow themselves to ignore the laws of Ukraine? Moreover, Minfin is now sending budget funds to anywhere, but not to the Curly Rig, where they are expected by the workers who have given Ukraine five billion dollars. I would like to suggest that the money will soon go to the labor group. In addition, the newspaper Red Mountain is a city newspaper, published on December 28, 2005, by the interview of Prime Minister Yehanurov, where he said: “I will not forget this for a moment, I promise that money will arrive in the Horn of Blood as soon as possible.” The poachers are very patient, and some of them still believe that the promise will be fulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u7	And it's probably a waste of faith. Victor Taran, please, Sergey Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! First, I'll start with the most important. Yulia’s bloc, Timoshenko, strongly insists on removing the inviolability of members of the local councils. We demand that today's agenda include bills aimed at undoing this inviolability. And if these bills are not included in the agenda today, including the Bills of Deputies of our Faction of School and Belarus, we refuse to participate in the vote because this is a thorough criminalisation of the state. Since the prosecutor’s office has already discontinued its consideration of 30, 30, 30, 30 criminal cases involving members of local councils. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! Yesterday we listened to our President's speech, and our President spoke correctly yesterday, he was talking about that statistics, he was talking about that breakthrough and in the social sphere, first and foremost, in the economic sphere, and those words were true. And I thought about, you know, the day of August 24, last year, when on Maidan, on the holy day of our independence, the President talked about the success of Ukraine, about the social breakthrough, and he then valued the work of the government of Julia Timoshenko at 12 points. And yesterday's speech by the President once again highlighted that assessment. And, of course, it would be very good if we heard it yesterday in all of Ukraine and that would be another signal to our unity. Because if Viktor Andriyovich quoted Emperor Napoleon yesterday, I would like to quote a simpler, more modest person, our beautiful Ukrainian ethnographer Boris Grinchenko, who said that “ Ukraine has many patriots and few workers.” So the government of Julia Tymoshenko was exactly the worker, and Timoshenko was the employee in the state field of our construction, our country, which was indeed working honestly and yesterday we heard about this assessment once again. I want to say again that yesterday's introduction by the President was an incentive that there is really a chance that the orange team will be the only one. The only thing that we've broken up firmly is in our assessment of the sphere. We have one worldview of Ukraine in Europe, one worldview, but in the assessment of the gas sphere. People good, today open these secret documents, transit, we signed in Moscow, we didn't sign it, we signed it up to 2030 at $1.6, not until 2006, the way we were cheated here. All of our oil shelters, gas repositories, sorry, they were handed over again by 2030 at a mock price of $2, which is going to be 10, 20 years from now -- it's going to be zero. And that's why we did the exact right thing for our faction when we voted in favour of resigning the government, we see what opened up the abyss there, and we would vote again for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u9	Please, Sergey Gmira, prepare, Odynik conveys the word Sokirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u10	Thank you. Sergey Gmyrra, the Communist faction. Alchevsk. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences. Yesterday evening's meeting, I spoke on the question that the decree on the specific needs of Alcevska by the Communist faction should be considered today. Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin categorically promised that he would, and I am looking at today's agenda and I do not see this regulation. It must be considered today. Dear colleagues! It's still very difficult in Alchevsk. I have data that says today at 6 p.m. to the President of Ukraine that all accommodations in Alcevska are being reported, listen to the wording: “They will be ready for entry into force”. However, from preparation to implementation, the road is very large to release. There's a lot of houses to invest in and invest and invest. Unfortunately, this money is still not coming. The relevance of this issue is therefore very high. Dear colleagues, the Alcevs are becoming more and more aware that the noise around my hometown is not quite raised for the reasons they are talking about. They want to raise public tariffs and carry out so-called community reform. I think we need to take a firm position: first we need to invest money and then we need to make some reforms. There's no other way. Today, utilities and Alchevska, and most cities in the country, are cemeteries. As long as you don't reform the cemetery, it'll stay that way if you don't invest in rebuilding it. 15 years of falling apart. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that the question of specific assistance to Alcevski is a matter of honour for each of the deputies. Now he's got a gun to help his people. I want to tell you this. As long as the State demands an inseparable love of itself from the people. Let's help the greedy, let's help our country, let's help a particular little person. There are now 0 degrees in many homes where old people live. My mother lives in a house like this, and I want Alchevska's people to feel this concern of the state, otherwise we're all disgraced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u11	Sokirko, please, instead of Adajnik, Drogantsov has given the word, Mironka, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u12	Mikola Sokirko, Winnichtina, “Our Ukraine” faction. Declaration by the parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” on the inadmissibility of destabilizing the political situation. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian society is awaiting a constructive dialogue from the Supreme Council between the representatives of the branches of government, their consolidated position, their effective search for compromise, not the passionate exchange of electoral slogans, emotions, and promises. The “Our Ukraine” faction highlights the urgent need to create favourable conditions for the efficiency and efficiency of the Cabinet of Ministers and executive authorities throughout the period leading to the formation of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, a coalition government. A prerequisite for this is the provision of honest, democratic and transparent elections to the Supreme Council and local councils in March 2006. We express our full support for the initiative of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine to introduce a moratorium on any action or decision of the authorities that could destabilize the socio-economic and socio-political situation in the state. We recognize that the Constitution is now in force in Ukraine with amendments made in accordance with the Ukrainian Law of 2222 of December 8, 2004, so we are obliged to act exclusively within the framework of the Basic Law. To prevent the destabilization of the political situation, we consider it necessary to familiarize Ukrainian citizens with the consolidated position of the highest institutions of power. To this end, it is necessary to initiate joint press conferences between the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We propose to hold parliamentary hearings soon on the practical implementation of the changes made to the Constitution of Ukraine, where, together with representatives of the public, clear recommendations for further implementation of political reform. The “Our Ukraine” faction claims support for bills that need to be adopted immediately in connection with the implementation of political reform in Ukraine, in particular the draft laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the amendment of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils and the amendment of certain laws on pension insurance. [[on the characteristics of the criminal offence]] These bills deal with the limitation of the maximum pension for officials, the removal of parliamentary immunity from the local councils and bills related to Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, which have been set up against the violent opposition of today’s Supreme Council. Unfortunately, we have to say that Parliament has turned into a political and electoral race where there is an untraceable trade in the interests of our fellow citizens. The election of a number of groundless, groundless charges against the authorities, who had only denied their work, resulted in serious results, taking into account the sad legacy left by the former regime. The faction "Our Ukraine" emphasizes that mutual understanding, honesty and transparency.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u13	Thank you. You just talked about the election, and now you're talking about the election again. Dear colleagues, this is our destiny with you and this is the fate of power: power will always be criticized. Fear criticism, do not go into power. It's a natural phenomenon, so what's to be surprised? Those in authority are always criticized. It was, it will be, and it will be. If anyone is afraid of criticism, give up the authority! Please, Miro Nancy, prepare the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u14	Commie faction, Crimea, Mironenko. Respected compatriots promised before the elections that the pro-American forces would improve their lives, which would improve relations with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Oh, we see they lied. It's all happening the other way around. In particular, we are already talking about Alcevska. But what is done in the city of Szłkino in Crimea? They're taking the kids to Crimea now. And where to get out of the Crimea when one third of the population of the city of Szelkin is without heat, without water and proper measures? There's no water in Kerchie's town for 10 days! No official action shall be taken. I have a request for the head of the Government of Ukraine. Let's see what they do. But we can see that as long as this team is working. And I think the people will come to the right conclusion. Yesterday, the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered extremely important bills for the people of Ukraine, the economy of Ukraine aimed at creating a single economic space - Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, with a view to ensuring a constructive, good trade relations between Ukraine and Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, with a view to achieving significant economic growth, which meant a significant increase in the standard of living of the people of Ukraine. However, these bills, which are badly needed by the people of Ukraine, have not been adopted. They voted in favour of factions: The Communist Party of Ukraine, the “Regions of Ukraine”, the Social Democrats, the Socialists, the Block of Lithuania, voted in part by the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, and voted by part of the non-fractional MPs. I am confident that the people will remember them in a good word, but these bills have not been passed, have not voted and have thus undermined the laws necessary for the people, the adoption of the necessary bill of the factions of Mr. Yushchenko, Yulia Timoshenko, the Kostenkovnik-privrats, who, like the U.S. anti-national “Time” branch, are covered by Klitko as a public figure, as well as some other deputies that we are still silent about. In view of the comments that have not voted in favour of these very important bills for the people of Ukraine, I have drafted and today introduced Bill No. 9085 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we will insist that it be considered in 10 days on Tuesday. And we will demand that it be adopted because the area of free trade, often spoken of by non-vote speakers, is provided for in agreements that will prevent carnivorous conflicts and other conflicts. You'll see in the bill, you'll have them. Please support these bills required by the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u15	Please, George Buiko. Weakly conveys the word, prepare Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u16	George Boiko, Communist faction. Since Ukraine’s declaration of independence to various government agencies, local authorities have annually received numerous collective and individual letters condemning the criminal activity of UN and UPA. The criminal activity of UN and UPA military formations in Ukraine, which falls within the scope of crimes against humanity, violations of the laws and customs of war both during World War II and in postwar years, is evidenced by numerous court proceedings in the postwar period in Ukraine, as well as by publications by foreign researchers. In dealing with the terrorist activities of the UN and the U.S.A., defenders, the loss of military personnel, the employees of the NCSC, the fighters of the extermination squads are cited as forced casualties. However, it is said that the number of these losses is several times lower than those of the civilian population. Only along with the Hitlerites, Ukrainian nationalists destroyed 1 million civilians in the seven western areas of Ukraine. But it should not be forgotten that, apart from direct victims, it is necessary to consider those who have suffered morally — children whose eyes the bandits have killed have been raped by their parents. Such moral damage is even more frightening than loving physical harm, since it is stored in memory for life and does not leave a person to death. And there are four or five times as many as those directly killed by bandits in those terrible times. The citizens of Ukraine have long called upon the authorities not only to condemn, but on March 3, Ukraine, to hold an anti - Fascist forum, UN and UPA crimes during the second world and Great Fatherland period, and to perpetuate the memory of the bandit victims, as well as the national legal assessment of the harm suffered by these living victims. For this reason, the National Deputies Boyko, Cibenko, Anastasiev, Herasimov, Domanski, Kuharchuk, Phydenko introduced the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Ukrainian Citizens. The victims of UN and UPA. For the consideration of the initiative, please include in the order of the day of the ninth session of the Supreme Council IV.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u17	Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch, prepare for Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u18	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! We all remember very well how the attempt to falsify the will of the Ukrainian people, the attempt to replace the truth with lies, brought millions of Ukrainian people under the walls of Parliament. Today I want to make a warning: I think the Ukrainian Parliament is becoming the center of counterfeiting, machination and substitution. I have in my hands a draft ruling that has not yet been published in Parliament, but information that has already appeared on the Ukrainian Truth website. This is a draft decree on the attempt to remove Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko of Ukraine. And under this draft, the decrees were signed by three deputies: Hara, Bondarchuk and Stoyan. At the same time, on the Ukrainian Truth website came information about my signature. I tried to clarify the situation. I have no claim to the employees of the Secretariat of Nikulina and Yasenchuk, but the information seems to be as follows: A consultant from the Secretariat, Kiselov, provided such information. I really want to and I'm asking the appropriate services to explain how the draft regulations are being drawn up, because after the 10th of January government withdrawals, we seem to be starting to get into some simple plagiarism or just the floor of the decision. And I'm asking, in fact, the leadership of the Supreme Council to give the task of clarifying this situation. If acid is set up as I am, one situation, if a person makes wrong decisions, please clarify this situation, because today Parliament should not be the source of wrong decisions and insinuations. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to stop at what happened yesterday. Yesterday, the president of Ukraine issued a report on Ukraine’s internal and external situation in 2005. This report, without exaggeration, was expected by the Ukrainian people for 15 years in a row, because it was an honest and adequate answer with a completely different analysis, in a completely different key to the year that we survived and the tasks that lie ahead of us. At the same time, the comments we have heard are also on the plane of political plagiarism. A very vague MP felt that the report was not clear, that the MPs who did not, and when the Black Sea fleet was embalmed in charge of Kudukin or the voter’s 20 bracelets were bought in Cherkishka, they also listened intently. I want to say that this report has been listened to by the Ukrainian people who think in Ukrainian and will also draw conclusions in Ukrainian, that is, for their own national interests. He can do it, and he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u19	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, PRA-PRP block, PRP faction in the Supreme Council. Statement by the faction of the Reform and Order Party. In recent years, the youth policy of Kyiv City State Administration, led by Alexander Omelchenko for nearly 10 years, has taken ugly forms that are unacceptable to the capital of Ukraine. Preschool education systems are derived from 138 children’s institutions, most of which are retrained contrary to the law. No new school and kindergarten has been built in the last five years, leading to serious disparities in social infrastructure in the face of commercial housing. The children's system has been destroyed at a place of residence where in recent years all the positions of teachers and coaches have disappeared, and most of the clubs and sections have ceased to exist. There is no guardian council in the city. Students from election to election are promised to transfer one of the cinemas to the College Palace and build a dormitory campus, but these promises are forgotten immediately after the election. They give it this time. They will not be executed again. About 10,000 university students hire corners and pay the last cents, while hundreds of Kiev dormitories are sold at commercial prices after minor reconstruction and underpainting. At the same time, the capital will gradually become the world centre of the gaming business, which today resembles Las Vegas. In no European capital has so many casinos, and in most European capitals, they are generally banned in the area of the city where schools and other institutions are located. For casinos in Kiev, hundreds of gastronomy and vegetable shops, palaces of culture, and cinemas are redesigned, where huge gaming centers are also organized. In the pursuit of income, the city’s leaders do not take into account the fact that children’s psyche is not stable and that if it is shaped under the influence of cartography and roulette, children will never be motivated to work as the main source of wealth. Today, no one fully appreciates the dire consequences of such policies by the city’s public administration, and they will be. First of all, it's a mass game psychosis that has already taken over children today, it's stealing from home to play, it's abandonment from education and work and sports. According to psychologists, this policy is destructive and today the Chinese are protesting against it. We receive dozens of petitions from parents who say that the Kyiv krupiers who sit on the Christian Church have forgotten their honor and conscience, their dignity, they are now blinded by profit, and they are destroying the children’s generation of kyans. We are strongly protesting this policy, and we want the Kyiv children to develop under the conditions of those who are worthy of children, not players.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u21	Yes, dear fellows, we have one minute left. Davemuk, please. Like a lion. Passing over one minute to Kenzior, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u22	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to draw your mutual attention to this today. Adam Ivanovich, I have three minutes, not one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u23	I'm sorry, you don't even have one left, just say one minute. I can't expand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u24	The Ukrainian Parliament, in its kind of unique parliament, is perhaps difficult to find in the world when all this aggression committed by the eastern neighbour and Tuzla, and the unauthorized manoeuvres of the Russian forces in Crimea, and the gas war, and the food war, and everything else does not receive, all this aggression does not receive opposition from the representative body of the Ukrainian State. I am convinced that if the government will now review the rent of the Russian-Black Sea fleet and demand that instead of 97 million dollars, Ukraine will receive at least two billion dollars, surely a fifth column in the Supreme Council will protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u25	Thank you, Jaroslav. I'm sorry, there's nothing I can do, there's a rule. Look, it's the red 0's. This may be your practice. We're still dissatisfied with the answers to the requests, the corresponding documents -- everything is spelled out, as they say. Please, Michael Gladys, prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Not only am I not satisfied, but I am indignant at the response of the Cabinet of Ministers to the parliamentary request, which I announced at the session on 30 November 2005 before Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov on the failure of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy to implement the Ukrainian Law on Agriculture to advise activities. And I'll explain why. In the Final Positions of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 June 2004 and took effect on 1 January 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was commissioned for three months. First. To the Supreme Council of Ukraine, make a proposal to bring Ukraine's laws into line with this law. The other one. Ensure the adoption of the legislation provided for by this law. Third. To bring your legal acts into line with these laws as well. And the fourth. Ensure that the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch carry out their legislative acts in accordance with this law as well. After 1.5 years, think about it, 1.5 years since the adoption of the law, but none of the aforementioned standards have been implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have a proposal to bring Ukraine’s laws into line with and with the Agricultural Advisory Act. The adoption of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers, as provided for by this law, is not ensured, including the adoption of a state-of-the-art agricultural advisory programme for 2005-2009, and the manner in which the funds of this State programme are used is not approved accordingly. The recognition of the status of a self - regulated organization and the registration of advisers and advisory services has not been approved. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics does not define how to provide information from consultants and advisory services, as provided for in article 9 of the Law. Neither has the Ministry implemented it in 2005 nor continues to fund professional training of advisers and expert advisors in accordance with article 10 of the law in 2006. And this list can be continued. However, respected colleagues, peasants, once again cheated, did not get what they had received in the past in 2005, nor do they receive socially oriented counseling services in accordance with article 6 of the law this year. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, please consider my statement to be a repeat request to the distinguished Yuri Ivanovich, and I hope that after the second time it will be an appropriate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u27	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, dissatisfied with the answer, prepare Michael Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! For this cadence of MPs, I made about 500 parliamentary inquiries. And I have to say today that somewhere in my 10 no more answers that I got were specific answers to a particular question, all the rest is ping-pong, all the rest are some sort of clerk's toolbox that is, which is then absolutely not being signed by any official. This is a problem I think for the next Parliament. We just have to make our officials respect the national MPs. You know the situation today in the information space of Ukraine. In fact, it does not exist as such. And the latest events, and the gas-milk war has proved once again that our informational simple resembles a "widow yard," it's spread out on every side, and whatever you want, say it. I understand very well that when the Russians were spinning in their media, the "powerful Russian hand" that spins the taps in order to freeze our kindergartens, schools, and so on, when some canals showed a cold pipe with frozen fat in their mouths. So I'm against, of course, having the information space of Ukraine respond in the same way and paint a drunken hood under the fence in the chairs and so forth. That's not the level. But once again, I've turned to the Prime Minister, thinking that there's going to be some kind of answer, that yes, we have a weak information space, but we're going to be working on it. What I receive in answer is this: “The Cabinet of Ministers disagrees with your assessment of the state of information policy. It should be noted that thanks to measures taken by the government, Ukraine has received the proper support of Western countries in the gas conflict with Russia and has demonstrated its ability to defend national interests through modern, transparent, and reasoned methods. In the information struggle, Ukraine did not surrender to Russia and this is confirmed by the assessment of the world's leading publications, Ukraine's actions in conflict with Russia. I understand the image of the government, I understand that the government has resigned, but it works, and it doesn't need to be surrounded by any hysteria. But it turns out that no one even wants to think about it, and they think that the information space is beautiful. Because I'm just asking one more question and I'm asking you to consider this statement, one more question to the government on this subject, and I want to be the deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, and I want a concrete answer: when this information space begins to be formed. By the way, I can tell the press that the Law on the Inviolability of Deputies of Local Councils will not be passed here. Because if we vote, all the lists that are made in all political parties in the grasslands will be distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u29	Please, Mikhailo Rodionov, dissatisfaction. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u30	Rodionov, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national MPs, radio listeners! I have to re-examine the question of the illegal removal of the presidency of the NAN of Ukraine from the post of head of the Council to study the productive forces of the Ukrainian member-in-office of the Academy of Sciences, the national deputy of Ukraine, three appeals, the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Druguntsev Sergija Ivanovich. At the previous request of the Communist faction on this issue, I received an answer from President Paton Boris Evgenović of Ukraine in January-February this year. The answer is that, indeed, Droguncs’s Sergey Ivanovich was removed from his headship in July 2005 because he was elected as a national deputy in 1998. The Communist faction, in its statement, stressed that Droguncsov was in office and served as the head of the Council, which is under the authority of NAN Ukraine to the full extent in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Under this law, a national MP has the right to engage in scientific work and to hold an appropriate position without payment in a nonprofit scientific institution. That was the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Supreme Council has the right to interpret legislative acts. At the same time, the judge of the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv, who was investigating the case of Doroguntsov in connection with the illegal removal of the case, did not recognize the right of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority to interpret the law, but recognized this right as Deputy Minister. According to his interpretation, the Deputy Minister’s interpretation of the position of scientific director of the institution does not belong to scientific activities. The Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, however, affirms and stresses that the activities of the head of the scientific institution refer to scientific activities. As they say, the circle is closed. There were no other reasons other than the political motives for the release of Doroguntsov. My request is to consider my request to the Head of the Supreme Council to put a dot in the arbitrary interpretation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy to each and to protect our colleague of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, by reiterating it in a position from which it has been removed with the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. I'll add some extra materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u31	Yes, there is still the request of the People's Deputy Philindash, indeed, it is improperly formed, but I am in the order of exclusion as a young MP to give the floor to dissatisfaction with the answer to the MP's request and I ask that it be properly formulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think that a person's fate is more about individual formalities, and it's about a person's fate, not someone's business-inneters. Eugene Filindash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The honourable Head, national deputies, radio listeners, can only be ordered in the country if the authorities, and especially the local authorities, who should be closest to the people, return their faces to every citizen, especially to such a category as the disabled of the Great Homeland War, whose problems should be paramount to the state. But it turns out that even in this matter, we still face formalism and complete indifference to the fate of people. I sent a parliamentary request to the head of the Donek district government administration of Chupurun regarding the veteran of the Great Homeland War, disabled by the third group of Vinkour Mikli Sergiyovich. He lives in a room of 11 square feet [11 sq m], along with a sick daughter chained to a bed. There's still neighbors living in the apartment, and they've got underwater water, and there's a hot boiler. This creates conflicts and prevents the use of water from disabled veterans, other utilities. Since 1990, for 13 years this veteran has repeatedly appealed to the local executive authorities of the Slovenian Donetsk Region for a request to reorganize his apartment for normal living. [[Think about it!]] And it doesn't work. When I asked about this question, the answer came only a month later, and in fact the request was not considered at all. In order to protect the rights of the veteran of the Great Homeland War, invalid 2 of the Vinokurov Group, please ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection and take steps to refurnish his apartment. Just make the entrance yourself, divide the apartment by a partition of 2 rooms to install 2 heating boilers and make a major renovation of the house. In addition, he could not obtain help on a place of residence that he could not obtain, despite his disability status, from the place of registration that he needed to pay for the utility benefits. Mr. Chairman, on the basis of an unsatisfactory response to the request, please consider this statement to be my MP's request to the head of the Donetsk district government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u33	Yeah, and we're done with that part. Please, there are lines. Assadchev. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u34	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party Today, one of the speakers, in our view, has distorted the Ukrainian National Party’s position on voting under the EP’s treaties. I would like to say that the Ukrainian National Party has always advocated good neighbourly relations with all countries, including Russia. I want to remind you that we voted in favour of ratifying the big deal with Russia. I would like to emphasise that we are in favour of signing a free trade agreement with Russia. But we are firmly opposed to predicting in the framework of what is called the creation of a so-called national body, in which 75 percent of the votes will be cast by Russia and Russia will solve all the internal strategic problems of Ukraine. The prediction of such an organ does not correspond to either the Constitution of Ukraine or the national interests of Ukraine. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party therefore votes against the creation of such a single economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u35	Please, Stoyan. Prepare Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u36	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukraine Party. I would like to inform all Ukrainian citizens that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has decided to remove Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko from office. We listened to the social security fund, found out that the tender had been conducted with gross violations. And this was confirmed by the Ministry of Economics. Of the 120 who went through the tender -- 108 with the violations -- that's in favor of Kirilenka. Then, with Kirilenka’s contribution, funding for a 130 million - dollar summer was cut and the workers received no travel tickets, just as Kirilenko urged him to cancel free travel. It was Kirilenko who pushed the fund and his postmaster, Mishchenka, who is the director of the non - professional organization, because he changed six positions in three years. In the summer, the child’s health was ruined. And a lot of other things. In January, 20,000 people were not healed under the pressure of Kirilenko. That's why we decided to retire Kirilenko and the director of the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u37	Please, this is about something else. Did Lilia Grigorovitch rightly say to find out on what basis her signature was under the document? That's what we're talking about. As it were, I'd like to really figure out where it came from, because it's not our parliamentary methods that someone is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u38	Well, that's what this is about. Let's do this gentlemanly thing. Please, Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u39	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The distinguished President, the people's deputies, the voters, indeed, at the beginning of the meeting, today would have accused me of signing the order, the draft order to withdraw Kirilenko Vejacheslav Anatolievich from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Yes, indeed, yes. There's a draft order, there's a signature. Some want to interpret this in a simplified way, so this is why you have signed such an order. Indeed, serious work is behind this decision. We spent 10 days checking out a fund that destroyed the sanatorium's health early this year. And as a result of that audit, I was the Vice-Chairman of the Commission, who worked for the Fund's audit. As a result of the audit of the fund, it is Kirilenko who has played a significant role in the collapse of workers'health. That's why the project came up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u40	Yes, dear colleagues, and that's what we're done with. Now there are three pairs of factions who want to interrupt our work, but we can compromise: they're willing to come forward and we'll work. Please, the "Ukrainen Regions" and the Lithuanian People's Block Group are requesting a recess. Please, Slauta is speaking. Who will be speaking from BOTH and “the only Ukraine ”? It's a Belarus. Yuri Anatolyovich, I missed you, I didn't see you in the hall, I think I'll be without you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u41	Victor Slauta, faction of Ukraine. Dear Chief, Honorable Fellows, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The MPs of the Party of the Regions are forced to return to the extremely acute problems that concern Ukrainian peasants. Unfortunately, we announce that the agrarian sector continues to deteriorate today. Today we are on the verge of a food crisis. Now investors, tenants just give people pies back, break contracts. People are desperate, unable or unwilling to sow. Prices for everything — sugar, potatoes, vegetables, and meat. During the past week, a plate of bordello in the Ukrainian family traveled three times. And it's meatless. There's no diesel in the nose, there's no diesel, there's no diesel, there's no minibar, too. Celitra -1200 dollars per tonne, that's in the factory, superphosphate - a thousand. It's the same with plant protection. There was a growing debt on the peasants ’ wages. The financial situation of farmers, the economy, is terrible. And the main thing is the mechanism. The budget we have voted on, the mechanisms we have not implemented. Money doesn't go to the manufacturer. Unprofessional actions of officials against the backdrop of today’s weather are threatening to cause a bread crisis. Well, really, dear friends, there's not one and a half million tons of grain, well, there's none, and that's what we need to do. What about animals? There is also the conflict over milk and meat with Russia. But the President begs his officials, do not go into politics, my dear friends. And the high authority on the dairy issue, solve the crisis, but the political issue is, the lighthouses are where it all works out. He doesn't really understand his president. Visiting Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovogradsk, Hersonian regions of the village simply fall and cry: Save! The milk was on the ruble of forty in that year, now 50 copies. The cow’s rudder is taken to the meatcombinat. I want to calm the villagers down. Four days ago, Janukovic telephoned with Grizzlov, head of the State of Russia, and the president handled the milk and meat problem. There is a commission for Gordjeev, the minister of agriculture of Russia, with whom I have just spoken, and this question will be removed for days. Anekdot, laugh. The opposition solves the issue of executive power and the pressing issues of citizens. And last, last. Help the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to find out about agriculture. Take care of your spring-field work. Help the villagers to dissipate. And Parliament and the government must now and urgently consider the bread crisis so that we don't have any bread left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u42	Thank you. Victor Andryovich, you take the lead on them. Please, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich. Get ready for Bogo John.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u43	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. For several months now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been discussing the issue of settlement, the removal of intrepidity from rural, district, city, and district councils. The issue is being resolved by the citizens of Ukraine. Our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the other factions, nine, are the majority of the factions that have passed their bills and require them to be promptly considered before the local council elections in March, March 26, this year. Such a decision would seem fair, at the request of the citizens, at the request of their representatives in the higher legislature, is logical, natural and guaranteed. And we don't understand why the order of the day, the order of the day, passes these laws without first reading them. The Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council decided on Monday to put the matter to a vote, to a discussion, and to a decision either on Wednesday or on Thursday. Yesterday, on Thursday, he was put in the tail of the day’s order, and of course it was not considered, despite promises, but it raises a question, and why is it not being considered today among the first, and why is this issue at all removed from the agenda of today’s meeting of the Supreme Council? We cannot agree with this as our colleagues from other factions do. And after the speech of the National Deputy Terrena from the faction of the bloc, we were expecting the chairman to make the right decision or offer it. This has not happened and we have to say again that we will not vote as a faction and our friendly faction “The only Ukraine” until this issue is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u44	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u45	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, veterans and children of war, listen and think, yesterday there was a significant field in the Supreme Council that affected the interests of 7 million Ukrainian citizens, namely, children of war, the poorest, state-stolen generation. A generation whose race, on the other hand, is sorry for this image, and today’s ranks of nuvarians have come together, both yesterday and today in power in Ukraine. The president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, whom some still call nationals shamelessly, vetoed the budget funding of the War Children's Protection Act in part, which envisions a 25 per cent reduction in wages and wages for utilities - gas, electricity, etc. - and costs the state only 800 million dollars. It's so hot. For their own feet, the Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”, the People’s Movement, the Ukrainian People’s Party Kostenka and Plush, was supported by the “Pinzenika Reform and Order” faction, half of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. So logically, the stupid service of the President is an unconscionable civil war. For liberals and national Democrats against children of war, and for the greater part, against an entire generation of Ukrainians. At first this law did not want to be implemented by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, its estaphet was captured by Yuri Yehanurov, but it went to the socialists when there was a threat of non-acceptance, everyone in this room remembers this, and only the inclusion of the article on partial financing of the Children of War Act gave our votes, totalling up to 226 votes for the budget. In the published text of the law, this article disappeared for some reason. We socialists again, like Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, insisted on restoring it. And thank you, the Supreme Council has supported it. All this time, the president kept his mouth shut, and now here he is. And now it's clear why he kept quiet. The children of war have been robbed in a row, only when their savings were looted in the trusts of the civil servants under the arms of Kravczuk and Kuchma, now the team of the monasticist Yushchenek and the inspired and creator of Pinzenik's trusts have attacked them. This is what you see as a solution. But, after all, Yushchenko and Yehanurov are still wearing pants today, I urge them today, if they're not the last cowards in the army reserve, if there's anything else left in their souls, not because of the press secretary, but personally from the parliamentary rostrum to tell how they came to such a life that they deny what they voted for, for which they wanted voters in the soul and under the skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u46	Yes, dear colleagues, we will proceed to the realization of the order of the day. With regard to those remarks that are not the subject today, the responsibility of the deputies is also the responsibility of the majority of the deputies, namely, 9 factions. 9 factions do not make up the majority of 226. So there might be a smaller fraction, but there are most of these factions. So here the number of factions, the number of factions still doesn't talk about performance. But just so there's no excitement, especially so that Yuri Anatolyovich doesn't get nervous, I'm going to put this question to the vote right now. For today's consideration of the bill on the responsibility of MPs, I ask you to identify yourself. Yuri Anatoliyovich, don't break the Constitution of Ukraine, just vote with your card. [[11:32:25]] Z-87 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 0, National Party - 5, "Our Ukraine" - 24, Block of Timoshenko - 26, Socialists - 3, "National Block of Lithuania" - 0, Social Democrats - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, "Rebirth" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 9, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 5. [[United]] We've solved this question for you and 9 factions. But it's okay, he's going to perform today and not once again, Yuri Anatolyevich. Yes, now with regard to “give war” justly everything for the next plenary week on Thursday we will go back to breaking the veto and in the agenda that we will offer at the Conciliation Council, this question is included. Because you and I got 257 votes yesterday to go back to that question. And I hope, Ivan Sidorovich, that when he meets the electorate, the MPs will return to others, and 300 votes will be taken with you for this bill. Dear colleagues, the line is no, because I didn't call or call your name. factions are such things. We agreed on Alchevsk yesterday, and there is an agreement today. Now we're going to consider when we get to the question of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on the sphere of the JCC, we're going to be looking at, including, the draft decree of Sergey Humiri. It's all going to be looked at in the complex. Let me read you a letter from the President: “To the head of the Supreme Council. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, pursuant to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act of 22 February 2000 “On the order of admission and the conditions of residence of the forces of other States in Ukraine, the Head of State has taken a decision and signed Presidential Decree of 31 January 2006 No 78“On the admission of the forces of other States to Ukraine in 2006 for participation in multinational military training”. But a draft Ukrainian law was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Taking into account the commitments of Ukraine as a whole in a number of high international instruments and the positive impact of joint learning on the level of the State’s defence, I am asking you to reexamine the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an urgent draft of the Act. With respect, Victor Yushchenko.” Please sign in. Three minutes. The computer I read, I still remember the letters. Please, Matthew. Get ready for Ruzicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u47	Matthew, the Communist faction, the head of the Regulatory Committee. Yesterday at this parliamentary rostrum, President Yushchenko, I think you all remember, stated that he did not act as a guarantor of the Constitution, and would not take any steps to violate the Constitution, the law. I want to ask you how this statement responds to his appeal to the Supreme Council now for a return to the draft bill. After all, the President is well aware and informed that yesterday this law was considered entirely in the Supreme Council and found the support of only 215 national deputies, that is, it has been removed. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you not to violate the Rules, it will not consolidate the Supreme Council any more at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u48	Please, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u49	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. I'm asking you to pass the word to Stepan Davimucci.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u50	Please, Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u51	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You know, joint learning plans are not a simple thing, they're planned far ahead, they're active in different state structures. And I am convinced that joint learning is of great benefit to our military. You know that on the eve of these trainings, repairs are being made to the appropriate technical equipment, and so on, the benefits are great for both our and our military personnel. I think we should go back to that question and resolve it positively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u52	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. As we know, Ukrainian soldiers are taking quite an active part as peacekeepers in many of the hot spots of our planet, and their admission to these hot spots was carried out by the Ukrainian Parliament. It is also known that not everywhere and not always our soldiers demonstrate high military training. I just want to mention the example of Iraq when nearly two dozen of our countrymen died. At the same time, there were publications by the U.S. military governors saying that both the Ukrainians and the Poles and other military were demonstrating their weakness and acting differently. We believe that improving combat readiness should not be at hot spots but at school. And so the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko suggests that we return to this issue and vote in favour of allowing the armed forces of other states to participate in multinational military training.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u54	Yes, there has been an exchange of thoughts. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say this. We're not violating anything, because it's not up to the Chief, it's up to the Supreme Council to decide. But since I'm very peaceful today, and I see that there's no disturbance in the room, let's postpone the consideration of this issue, we'll talk on the conciliatory board, we'll get back to it at a better time. A draft law on the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine, registration number 9031, is under consideration, reports the head of the Security Service Drizcjan Igor Vasilovich. Get ready for the Committee's hamster. Please, Igor Vasilovich. Igor Vasilovich, how many, five, three minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u55	Five.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u56	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u57	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, is the main purpose of the law, which has been put forward today for your consideration and the creation of proper legal and organizational principles for the functioning and development of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. The task of the service offered by this law is primarily to ensure the functioning and development of the government system of communication. The other one. The national system of confidential communication. Third. Protecting state information resources in information and telecommunications systems. And finally, the implementation of state policy in these areas. The State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection is being established on the basis of a project that exists today in the Ukrainian Department of Special Telecommunications and Information Protection. The creation of a service will, above all, be able to resolve a systemic contradiction, which is that the Security Service today combines the functions of a communications operator and the functions of carrying out control operations on appropriate channels of communication. Let me stop at some of the fundamental points of the bill that is under consideration today. First of all, it is the creation of a government body with special status, whose activities will be directed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The government will take steps to ensure the functioning of the service, and the issues related to Ukrainian national security will be under the control of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. A few words about the main tasks. First. To ensure the safety and development of the state system of government liaison, to ensure that senior officials of the State and other public authorities, local self - government, military administration, heads of institutions, businesses, and organizations are connected. At present, the government system is the only special telecommunications system that allows for limited access to information between the leaders of all branches of government. And this system is also able in any situation and place to provide a stable, uninterrupted, secure link in higher government leadership. The second task is to implement a single state policy to protect state information resources. In today’s context, the issue of providing such protection is becoming increasingly important. Today, there is a new view of sources of national security in the information field. And ignoring the protection requirements can lead to extremely negative consequences. Third. It's a question of developing and producing government ciphers, and I'm sure it doesn't need an explanation, so far very few countries are able to do these tasks on their own. And Ukraine is among these countries. The overall structure of the established service consists of a specially authorized central executive body and its regional and territorial organs. The new one, of course, is that the ministry is created as a nonmilitary formation. And this approach will contribute to the fulfilment of commitments made by Ukraine both to the Council of Europe and to the international community to reduce the number of military and military personnel in general. The bill defines the legal and social protection of the individual’s composition between the special status and the tasks of the service. And the status quo will allow for the gradual devotion of the staff of the service by 31 December 2009. This is certainly due to the need to preserve the high - professional staff potential that is now serving in the department and becoming the basis of the staff capacity of the service. The proposed number, and the Law defines, and the number of services, corresponds to the actual number that exists today in the Department of Special Telecommunications Systems and Protection of BSS Information. Well, with regard to the financial costs recorded in the explanatory note, the amount of additional funding is only partially, by about a quarter, intended to create conditions for deployment and business security, and the rest are previously planned for the use of state programmes, funds and debt repayments that now exist and have arisen in the past years. Well, lastly, the adoption of the bill will, among other purposes, allow the objective of optimizing the Ukrainian Security Service structure and transforming it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u58	Yes, thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u59	factions of Ukraine, Pecklusenko, 84th constituency, Zaporozhye district. The faction has been actively discussing this issue, and we have come to the idea that we will support this bill because any civilized State has an obligation to protect its information. The only thing I think is that in the hall and in the faction we were discussing was how from the information protection body not to turn into another political gendarmerie, what guarantees that this body would not follow, to track the unfavourable politicians?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u60	The creation of a service is already a guarantee of ensuring information against unauthorized access to it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill has been drafted to implement the President's decree on additional human rights measures in the implementation of operational and search measures. The information control functions for this service will not be relied on, but adequate access to information will only be possible in accordance with the order established by law by the court sanction given to the relevant investigating authority or operational unit by the consent of the prosecutor. So it's going to be another level of information protection control, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u61	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u62	Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u63	Matthew’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear reporter! Now the government’s connection and, in particular, the so - called telephone numbers, as you know, are well used by anyone. They're all derived, practically, from high-ranking government officials, they're taken to the reception center. What is your reaction to this as the Ukrainian Security Service? And secondly, I have addressed yours, personally with a parliamentary request for the distribution of postcards, which contain images of the leader of the Communist faction of the National MP Simonek. I'm talking about the distribution of cards in Kiev. What answer did I get? As it's installed, the request does not contain any evidence of a crime. But let's move on. In addition, we are informed that the protection of personal immaterial matters must be decided in civil proceedings. Why, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u65	In answer to your first question, I can say that the list of subscribers of the ATS-100 network of government liaisons is established by the appropriate order of the President of Ukraine. The Security Service is currently only responsible for ensuring this connection. The distribution, as it were, of access to this network, does not have a relationship to the user definition of the Security Service. As far as you're concerned. I have to say that the Ukrainian Security Service is exercising exclusive powers within the limits defined by legislation. And the questions raised in your question don't apply to our competence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u66	I'm here to support Igor Vasilovich in the sense that they're actually installing and removing the apparatus, and allowing where and to whom, whether in reception or not, the President orders. I repeat, in order for the reception apparatus to appear, the President's orders are required. Without this arrangement, no one will fix or remove it. Well, don't be naive. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u67	Igor Vasilevich, please tell me. Now, after reading your law, and in general, from the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc, we are prepared to support it, but we are interested in the following. For the system to work, and in this case the service will be a system, it is necessary to clearly understand what this is and what status regional and territorial units will have. The law doesn't make that very clear. Comment on the situation. So that it doesn't work out that there are some issues here, and on the ground, I beg your pardon, everyone will be as surprised as they can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u68	The structure consists of three strands, as mentioned earlier. The central authority has the status of central executive authority. At each administrative centre at the district level, a regional authority will be created and it will be a central sub-ordering body. As far as the territorial authorities are concerned, they are now envisaged to create 8 and the network of these organs is linked to the state’s military organization. They are designed to perform functions for either a special period or a war period. During peacetime, their vitality is maintained, as it were, by the ability to perform these functions on special occasions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, Igor Vasilovich, sit down, please. Head of the Defence and National Security Committee Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, first of all, well, I would like to point out positively that this time the solution to the creation of such a service is being done in the constitutional field. You know how the External Intelligence Service was created. The president issued a decree that for more than a year this service existed in a seminal manner, and we finally passed the law. Now the President has done the right thing. He acknowledged the need for this service. That's appropriate. And he had the bill prepared. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Second, it's important that this is done within those states. Which we now have in the state. Huh? I'm just an objective person, keep in mind. Yeah. And then, the important thing is that this is done within the states of existing states, it doesn't need any more. One more moment of principle. This is that the de-demilitarization or demilitarization of this service, in my view, is very justified, will take place in stages. There are people working there, they have certain social guarantees, and these guarantees have to be preserved. In my opinion, it's very important that we see this in the project presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the project brought serious comments to the committee, to the committee members, and to our scientific experts. First. After the project prepared by the service and was aligned with us in the Cabinet of Ministers, it was adjusted to some of the positions that were essentially put in the deadlock and the legislators. First. This is the status of the service. Whether it was military service or not, we were forced to correct it in agreement with the Security Service. The other one. It has been recorded that the Head of the Service is appointed in an orderly manner. What's the order? We're creating the Service, and we don't know what order we're building. Since this is not a military structure, in accordance with article 116, paragraph 9.2, of the Constitution, these officials are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And we think we need to write this down. Third moment. Time to enter into operation. A structure is being created, and the project suggested that the law be put into effect as of January 1, 2007. We thought it would have to be very capitalized, too. The law must take effect, take effect from its publication, but the funding allocated this year to the Ukrainian Security Service should include the implementation of reform measures. So this takes away the problem of getting along with our financial system. There was no provision that the Cabinet of Ministers should bring its normative acts into line with the law. So when we look at this bill in the working order, before the meeting, we've found it necessary to take into account the scientific experts' comments, they're set out in the documents that you have, and they're prepared on the basis of this bill, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, the drafting of this law, a committee editorial that takes into account virtually all the observations. Including the subordination of regional and territorial structures, the ratio of special and governmental relations, and others. And with that in mind, we ask you to adopt this law, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, in an editorial committee, you have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u71	Thank you. Yeah, there'll be questions? Sign up. We'll vote. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u72	No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u73	Yes, there is. Please, three minutes of Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u74	Is that a statement or a question? Questions. Georgi Korniyovich, please tell me if you've pointed out that it's just a system to protect the government's confidential wire or mobile connection, because wire is a stone age. And now almost all government officials are using mobile phones. In this case, how can the bill protect the government’s mobile phone? And electronic information that comes through, of course, computer channels, computer channels. I'd like to get more clear information from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u75	Well, I think this question should have been asked to the head of the service, that's a specific question. It's about protecting information that's confidential and all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u76	Georgi Korniyovich, I'll help you. Yuri Petrovich, don’t worry, the whole network is protected, including computers. Those who need protection. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u77	Georgi Korneevich, please say that the adoption of this law will bring some additional budget costs, such as the financial costs of the State and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u78	What can be said. That, in principle, there will be costs. We're going to have to take this service out of the premises, give it a separate room, that's all there is to it, but we've suggested that we write down that this year's process of building this structure is within the budget approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u79	Grigorovich Leel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u80	Lila Grigorovich “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! I'm willing to agree with Adam Ivanovich and to protect our information, I ask you to accept what will best protect the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u81	Please, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u82	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u83	Sergei Shevchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell us that this is a very important task and that the employees of this service must have very much knowledge, intellectual weapons. Why, as suggested in the Law, should they give them the right to carry, store, use, use firearms, or is it a very important argument, and whether it is a very dangerous task, to listen, or to listen, as others do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u85	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, this is a whole system that operates throughout the country. There are so many objects that need to be protected. Protecting them with one fist may not be enough, and a weapon is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u86	These are military formations and all military personnel are entitled to. Those who have a relationship remain there. Please, thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Shall we discuss it? We will. First. Let's do it this way. We're not going to take breaks, but we're going to finish the session a little bit sooner. Is there any objection? It won't. And we'll take 12 minutes to talk. Please, Carmazin, get ready for Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u87	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. This reminds me of some friends who have forgotten and quit. Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials. I appeal to you about the need to finance this service. Everything that's not financed is dying. So I understand the authors when they wrote that it came into force on January 1, 2007. In fact, they met the requirements of the Budget Code, ideally, and they met them, and we can't blame them. Another question is that we, as politicians, should write that from the moment we enter into action. And that's it, clean it up. And the law comes after the signature, the publication. And there will be another Parliament, and it will make changes to the State Budget Act. The funding of the Security Service alone is not enough, and for this service it will now be necessary to put the absolute issue of funding at a different level. In general, the financing of our units, including the State Security Service, which protects and protects these premises in Parliament, is underpaid. It is I who address Mr. Yehanurov as Prime Minister. This is no longer acceptable. There's a delay in salaries in the military. This is also unacceptable. So it's not just the Curve Riding that's not going to make any money. The total number of the State Special Liaison Service is 8,000 250, of whom 7,400 are members of the regular and primary staff, as proposed in article 4. I agree with the conclusions made by the chairman of the Committee, George Kruczkov, and I am confident that this law will be directed towards the protection of human rights. And that's exactly what President Yushchenk said. It's about human rights, because there's a distribution of powers between different departments and division of functions between both the operator and the controller. I absolutely agree with the need to make changes, and the head of the service no longer has the right to be appointed by the President's decree. We are already living in another country, a parliamentary-presidential republic, and in it the head of this service of anyone who is not named there is appointed by the government, i.e. the Cabinet of Ministers. It's absolutely right that it's planned to demilitarize the service by December 31, 2009, which comes out of the End. We need to do everything we can to leave those today who can in positions where nonmilitary formations can take place. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, to take into account the observations made by very serious scientific and scientific authorities and the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u88	Sergey Shevchuk, prepare for Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. There were a number of questions that I would just like to repeat or develop during the report. Dear Adam Ivanovich said that this is forming a new military structure, military formation. From the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u90	I was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u91	From the text of the bill we see a little bit different. So this project doesn't define what the legal status of the service is, what are we talking about? On the one hand, this service, such as the State Tax Service or the State Customs Service, is an executive body entrusted with the task of protecting the state’s information resources and security of Ukraine’s special relationship. This service was designed to be composed of members of the military, the chieftain, who were assigned special titles. On the other hand, certain provisions regarding the conduct of the service in this body have been approved, according to the project, by the President of Ukraine, which does not meet the requirements of the updated Constitution, which has entered into force since the beginning of this year. The members of the military and the armed forces or the Security Service, who have been released from service, are included in the armed forces or the Security Service, and are covered by the Ukrainian Law on Social Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families, they have the right, as I have said, to store, carry, use weapons. So you can only assume, not claim, but assume that this service is planned either as military formation, or as a law enforcement authority, or as a normal executive authority, but it's just a guess, because there's no clear answer in the draft law. The main question is: Who will appoint the governing body of this new service? And here again, I don't understand. According to the Constitution, which has entered into force, the Cabinet of Ministers should do so at the request of the Prime Minister. At the same time, individual positions indicate that these functions can be performed by the President of Ukraine. And at the end of this misunderstanding is also caused by questions about the need to reorganize the Ukrainian Security Service, to make significant budgetary expenditures in the creation of another armed formation with unclear status both in the center and in the regions. Therefore, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko considers that this legislative initiative needs to be further developed, including more detailed factions, and we are talking in general about the entire security system of Ukraine, not the spread of functions, because the integrity of the structure also means the full responsibility of the security service of Ukraine, and the dispersion of functions leads to irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u92	Oleg Zarubinski. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u93	Oleg Zarubinsky, “The People’s Block of Lithuania”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to confirm and agree with the thesis by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov on the fact that the bill in question is completely in the constitutional field and has a full degree of legitimacy, both its submission and its submission in such a format. One second. For me, for example, it's very important, frankly, the second part, even the name of this service. We are not just talking about special communications, we are talking about the Ukrainian Information Protection Service. Dear colleagues, everyone likes to say that today it is not a permanent society but an information society. Information society is a society where information is the most expensive commodity there is. Accordingly, the protection of information is a prerogative and it is the preference of the state. And that State that has a serious service -- whether you want to call it a “centre” or an “office” or an “institution” -- whose task is, first of all, to control information, to guarantee that this information will not be disseminated, not dispersed and so on, certainly such a public service should exist. Dear colleagues, may I continue and you will do so outside the session room?Oh, my God! It's not a circus, after all!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u94	Please read the newspaper silently.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with the tasks of this service. We're talking about what the key tasks are, and the authors of the legislative initiative say that it's about participating in the field defence tasks, as well as measures to maintain the legal regime of the military, the state of emergency -- it's very important. What is extremely important is that the service has to monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation in the area of the provision of digital signature services and is a very urgent and timely task. The task is to develop and organize scientific and scientific research. The task is to participate, in accordance with its competence, in agreeing on the placement of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states in Ukraine. So it seems to me that the creation of this service has been called upon to carry out a series of tasks that are not fully implemented today. I think we can support the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, support the bill he proposed to us today. It's a matter of state importance, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear, distinguished representatives of the Ukrainian People's Movement faction, I very much ask you to read the newspapers in silence. This is the Supreme Council, not the Reading House. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Igor Vasilovich, respected colleagues, I have not fully understood for myself, is it only about the wire system of the government’s confidential relationship? But this system must include mobile connections, electronic connections, and so forth. Time now requires the creation of a system of government liaison, taking into account the requirements that today dictates for us. And I would like to say in terms of the fact that the time is now, it's both space and the time itself, it's closing to the point, and we have to act in very difficult conditions. And our relationship should be confidential, protected every second. And not only in our formal position on the committee, but also at any point in our country. And first of all, I would like to draw the attention of the officials and, above all, the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to ask, if I have a mobile phone, can I be sure that I am not controlled by my movements and actions every second? Let us remind you of how during the Chechen war in the Caucasus, the precise missile strike of Bassaiev was destroyed when it came out of the GPC system with a satellite connection to the overseas agencies that he served and the tasks that he performed. Are we not in such danger if we are not struck with missiles, but at least we will be controlled every minute, where we are and what we are talking about. And then there's the electronic connection. Computerization has now reached such an opportunity when not only government officials but also many citizens have the right to electronic communications. I'm asking why in the system now on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's server, the electronic communications system is filtering all the information that comes from the Washington-Profile agency, it's such an agency, it's open-ended, it's got an official website. Earlier this agency, the information came into my electronic box, and now it's filtered out and it's dropped into the SPAM. Who did, and on what basis? So, from my point of view, the committee did the right thing when he returned the bill to the legislature.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u98	There's more. Please, I don't see school. Mikhailo Ratushny. Microphone, please turn on a minute. Mikhail Ratushnoy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I think that these arguments that Sergey Shevchuk gave us, they have reasons for the flaws in the bill, and it's appropriate to talk about them. But in general, everyone here agreed that the adoption of such a bill was necessary, even to a large extent too late. So for the economy of time, I think, come on, Adam Ivanovich, let's put this to a vote, it can be polished later when it's considered in the final edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u100	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please. I understand you're tired of the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Adam Ivanovich, I want to point out to my colleagues that we cannot today, when we are going to reform power, pass the law. What does that mean? Uncertainty. Who appoints the head? Does this appoint the President as a military person, or does he appoint the Cabinet of Ministers as a civilian? And if we don't think about all of these details, we're going to start with the weight that we have today, because we've heard what the remarks are today, which are the possibilities for this today, even though listening to the President's speech yesterday. So I think we should not rush into this law, nothing is decided today. The service that's taking care of this right now is doing it. Today, there is a ministry that fulfills all its responsibilities. If we break the law that is now Syrian, we will have nothing but trouble. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u102	Question completed. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we will be determined. The only thing I'd like to pay attention to is one more time. The committee's profile, reported the head of the Kruczk committee. He pointed to a number of flaws in the bill, and they agree with the Security Service to improve what Vitaly Sibko has just said, who will appoint. It's got the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. So all the gaps that are going to happen are going to be accounted for. I'll put it to a vote. I am so glad that you all want to work so hard. It inspires hope, it inspires hope. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine, registration number 9031. Please give a constitutional majority. Vote. [[12:16:09]] For 293 They didn't reach a bit, 293. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Maybe we should take it now? No, it's not. All of it. Then we work, we prepare for the second reading. Yes, let us consider the question. Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on work in the area of housing and utilities. We agreed we'd cut back on the break. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Breaks are requested here. So, who's going to be from the faction of the UNP and the NRA? Assadchev, please, and prepare Proscotov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u103	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka. Dear friends, I urge everyone, when we speak, let's be honest and correct and then the others won't take the line. I actually took the line because when the speaker here was from the Socialists and said about the law on children of war, I want to say that the Ukrainian People's Party faction, the Ukrainian People's Party faction, was in favour of adopting this law and, more importantly, in the Committee of Budgets, increased funding under this law, but we are firmly opposed to having the children of war go through and the benefits go to the millionaires, and that under the children of war the benefits go to the head of the Socialist Party today in Ukraine, Mr. Frost. Therefore, respectable socialists, please refuse Mr. Frost and Mr. Kravchuk’s benefits to the Ukrainian people. And we've made our proposals that this law should be exclusively for low-income population categories. If this amendment is made and voted? We will vote in favour of this law. So please do not distort the position of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u104	Tamara Proskuratov. There's no ice, there's gonna be a frost. He's gonna get a replica. You don't have to. Alexander Alexander will come. I'll give it to him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u105	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU, “NOT YES!” President Viktor Yushchenko, in his address to the Supreme Council, once again called on the political forces to refrain from, quote: “Provocative forcedness in party interests, especially before the elections of those who divide society, whether religion, language or so-called federalization, NATO or other”. If you think about it, it means nothing more than a call to give up public discussion of issues that are relevant and painful to the country, giving them a solution to the ransom of official bureaucracy. Not surprisingly, it is a turning point, especially before the elections, for the President is well aware of the unpopular nature of his actions in these areas and the negative impact they will have on its electoral results. It would be more appropriate for the President to ask the representatives of all branches of government to be more cautious and wiser in solving such matters, taking into account the public’s opinion and not so much in the election campaign. Because it is at a time when he calls on the political forces to refuse to discuss current issues that more or less important officials are moving Ukraine's entry into NATO as quickly as possible, whether this is how they solve language problems. It also warns that similar warnings against public discussion of problems are echoed in the face of a red tape attack on freedom of speech in Ukraine. The actions of the Presidential factions in the Supreme Council, which have been able to pass through Parliament the anti-democracy law on television and radio broadcasting, can be a significant example. On the one hand, he gives unlimited control over the television and radio channels of Nacradia, on the other hand, severely restricts the use of Russian-language television, which violates the rights of citizens, the Constitution and today, the Nacradu has been strained by the adoption of this law, has launched a real fight for the destruction of the independent TET radio company, removing all low-frequency licenses and banning broadcasts on the air of two entertainment programs of Russian production. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” strongly condemns attempts by the Presidential Team to address the country's relevant issues in a narrow business circle, ignoring the opinion of society. [[united]] All of these issues should be widely discussed at all times, and especially during the election campaign, and let the electorates themselves show by their vote whether they support decisions that they do not think were so actively pursued by today’s authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u106	Yes, there's no limit to the indignation of socialists, so please, Boki, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u107	There's one actor. [[So John Boki, a faction of socialists.]] There's an actor here and from famous people who have long been said to be in power, but for some reason they don't think they're in power. So this man was already telling us that the Law on the Protection of the Children of War was adopted in the interests of individuals, called Alexander Moroz. I want to tell this deputy, first of all, to the conductor I remember, that instead of this pension, it means, for him to live or not to live, we'll send two carriages of conductors in advance and let him enjoy them, well, as compensation for the damage he thinks he's going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u108	This is subject to the Law on Corruption, as a bribe can be judged. Yes, dear fellows, let's calm down now we have a question to consider. Matthew's head of the committee in question procedure, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. As you can see, on the next question, a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on housing and utilities is foreseen for a report by the acting minister. I would like to remind you, fellow believers, of the requirements of article 8.2. 3 Chapter 8.1 of the Rules, which states in the first part: “The report on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers at the meeting of the Supreme Council is made by the Prime Minister, or the First Deputy Prime Minister, if a report on the government’s activities is being considered. Or one of the vice-premiers when the government reports on specific issues of activity." Adam Ivanovich, so it's like not ignoring the Supreme Council, sent to parliament by the government. I don't think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u110	The observation is fair, but life goes. Please perform the duties of the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing – Kačur Pavel Stepanović. And whoever wants to, let them think that the minister, I don't deny it. How much, Paul Stepanovich, do you ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u111	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u112	Fifteen minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. In yesterday's address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President Viktor Yushchenko stressed that housing and utility farming is one of the priority areas, the everyday environment of a person, through which it forms its mood, which makes citizens appreciate the activities of the management bodies from the Chief of the Board to the Chief of Government. In the area of housing and utilities, the Cabinet of Ministers has a statutory mandate, implementing which, the government has a single state policy in this area, develops draft laws of Ukraine, state targeted programmes, adopts other regulatory acts on the issue of the formation of a balanced price policy, regulation of the activities of economic operators. I would like to remind you that Ukraine's law on local self-government in Ukraine has delegated authority to the authorities of the local self-governance authorities to manage the housing and utilities that are in place, and I would like to highlight in municipal property the respective territorial communities, ensure their proper maintenance and efficient exploitation, water supply and water management. Recent developments in the heat supply of cities in the Alchevska Lugansk region, Alexandria Kirovogradska, the water supply of the city of Chechkino of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and a number of other population areas in Ukraine have shown that the housing and utility complex of the state has accumulated a large number of problems of national scale. The current situation in the housing and utility economy of Ukraine, which we received as an inheritance, is characterized by a high level of core fund demolition of more than 60 percent, and as a result, by the loss of drinking water in external networks, the loss of thermal energy in the housing fund. 70 percent of the dwellings were built up by 70 years ago, and this is about 4 percent of the apartment buildings in utilities are well - built and emergency. The actual capacity of local budgets for their capital repairs does not exceed 16 percent of the need. As a result, today’s state and quality of utilities do not match the expectations of citizens. [[First slide, please.]] . Dear National Deputies! Today, the vast majority of residential-communal enterprises work on tariffs that do not compensate for the full cost of providing services. On January 1st, the rate of reimbursement of population tariffs varies from 20 percent in water supply to basic enterprises in the regions. I'm going to print you this data so we can see it. But I'm telling you, out of 20 percent in water supply, out of 37 percent in heat supply, and after about two percent in housing, that's the level of self-sustainment. Overall, in Ukraine, population tariffs are costing an average of 66 percent, and in terms of subsidies, they account for more tariffs for utilities by 87 percent. As a result, by the beginning of 2006, the industry had received 1.2 billion. The amount of damage. The most significant damage in the region is in the Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk, Donetsk and Kharkiv regions. Such an economic approach to the sector does not at least stop the crisis and lead to the deterioration of the technical state of equipment and networks, makes them more efficient, prevents them from investing in this key state of the sector. I will note that in post-Radians such as Estonia and Kazakhstan, which have made significant progress in the reform of the housing sector, the issue of transition to economically sound tariffs has become one of the main elements of reform in this area, and politicians are no longer being discussed. In the pursuit of public policy, the government is not able to ensure that businesses function smoothly only by mechanically raising tariffs. So it is a task to balance the interests of society, economic operators and consumers of residential services. We stand in the position that housing-communal pricing policies should be an incentive to energy conservation, protect low-security population groups from potential abuse of monopolies, but also ensure full compensation for the costs of these services. As early as 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a very important Ukrainian Housing Services Act, which predicted that if local tariffs do not compensate for the cost of services, local budgets will compensate for such costs. Unfortunately, the law is not being implemented today, tariffs do not compensate for their worth, and no one compensates the difference in tariffs to utilities. Ladies and gentlemen, on the slide that you're seeing right now, there's information on the state of housing subsidies financing, and I'm asking you to pay attention to it. If we continue to speculate on tariff policy in the field, the housing subsidies programme will go down, along with the final decline in housing and utility. We must honestly acknowledge that donor policy protects the interests of wealthy people. So, the existing financial and economic situation of enterprises makes it impossible for private capital to be involved, preventing the introduction of new forms of governance and enterprise resupply. In view of the above, the government, in particular the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing, which is responsible for the implementation of housing and utility policies, has identified the priority of its activities in the reform of housing and utilities, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council, to the presidential pre-election programme of Ukraine "10 steps towards people". The basic law in government activities is the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010. I would like to remind you that, according to the law, the program is being implemented in a step-by-step manner, including improved governance, demonopolization in the field, non-beating functioning, and technical resupply. In the first phase of 2004-2006, the programme is expected to complete the development of first-line legislation in the area of housing and utilities, which would facilitate the implementation of systemic transformations in the field and determine the priorities for its development. In carrying out these tasks, the government has placed particular emphasis on the legal and regulatory provision of local self-government and municipal enterprises in their activities to meet the needs and needs of the population. Last year in this room you, honourable national deputies, passed six Ukrainian laws regulating relations in the area of housing and utilities. In particular, about the State-wide Water of Ukraine programme, about heat supply, about combined heat and electricity production, about the well-being of the populace. The first reading adopted a draft Ukrainian law on the complex reconstruction of neighbourhoods in an outdated housing fund. This was made possible by the close cooperation of the government with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. In order to improve the level of housing and utility services and to regulate the activities of residential and utility operators, the government has adopted a number of regulations that approve the tariff arrangements for maintenance of buildings and buildings and adjacent areas; rules for the provision of central heating services; the provision of cold water and hot water and water and water; the procedure for the competition for the provision of residential and utility services; typical service contracts, as well as an approved national strategy for the management of solid wastes in Ukraine, a number of other normative acts, will not be counted without time. In the first direction of implementation of the program, the Ministry was working to eliminate the key contradiction that exists in the maintenance of the housing fund when housing and maintenance offices act simultaneously as both the client and the contractor and supervisor of the services performed. So we did work to stimulate the activities of local self - government authorities in the introduction of progressive forms of multi-house management, integrated property complexes in the water supply and water supply sectors. The number of multi-house owners in 2005 has increased by 15% to 4,000,265 units for today. At the same time, such a pace cannot be considered satisfactory. In Estonia, for example, similar institutions cover 95% of the multi - apartment housing fund, which was achieved by legislation that provided for their creation. In order to encourage the creation of a union, the Ministry has prepared a bill to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. The second direction is the creation of a multi-room service market, an expanded geography of the implementation of communal housing management projects through the creation of a single customer service to 27 cities. In the current year, the Ministry plans to develop a series of regulatory acts that will stimulate the development of the services market for the management of multi-room buildings. In particular, the position of the governing company, the bill to simplify the taxation of the funds that managers manage, other normative acts. In order to improve the housing management system, promote the demonopolization of the sector, the Ministry is developing a draft Act on State regulation of activities of natural monopolies in the area of housing and utilities. Prepared for consideration are a number of government regulations on the transfer of control, rent, concession of thermal supplies, and water supply. The rules on the provision and use of thermal energy, the right to provide services for the management of a building, a building, or a group of buildings, tariff arrangements for water heating and water treatment services have been approved. In order to create a competitive environment in the area of heat supply, we propose that private investment be made possible in the development of generating capacities. This allowed for the creation of local markets in thermal energy. Honorable national deputies, according to the State Programme, should provide 475 million dollars a year in the National Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of municipal facilities and for the implementation of energy conservation measures. In fact, in 2005, only 50 million dollars were allocated and funded, and in the 2006 budget, 80 million dollars for water and 100 million dollars for trolleybus and tram subsidies were provided. Sadly, that is a fact. During the preparation of the State Budget project, the government prepared proposals for second reading, which provided 300 million dollars of subsidies to local budgets for measures aimed at reducing the cost of production, transmission and consumption of thermal energy, and 150 million dollars for the development and reconstruction of centralized water and water supply systems. In addition, it was envisaged to introduce new financial credit mechanisms that would encourage non-state investment in the modernization of the sector, including 300 million non-state credit resources to implement measures aimed at reducing costs of production, transfer and consumption of thermal energy, 50 million to partially offset interest on loans to commercial banks for development and reconstruction of centralized water supply systems. However, these proposals were not supported by the Supreme Council. And that would allow us to expand investment in the industry. Today we have such examples. The government, along with the local authorities of Zaporozhye and Lviv, continued to work on involvement in the technical resupply of water supplies and the management of foreign investments by the World and European Banks. In particular, Zaporozhye has completed the project with a total cost of $42 million, and Lviv has an investment of $40 million. This year, one of the main priorities of government and ministry work is the implementation of efficient energy conservation policies in housing and utilities, adjusted to the industries, regional and local energy conservation programmes in the area of housing and utilities, in line with the energy strategy project by 2003, which foresees measures aimed at reducing the production of heat on boilers that consume natural gas, and increasing its production on electroaccumulation plants. Life forces us to take urgent measures to stimulate the efficient use of resources. We are tasked with heating companies to share with local self-government authorities measures that would allow for a reduction in natural gas consumption by at least 10 percent by the end of the year. In order to promote this work, the Ministry created a working group, developed specific proposals that envision the introduction of energy-efficient technologies, the modernization of boilers and the replacement of burners, the automation of boilers, the replacement of boilers with low efficiency. We're looking at a separate block about the technology of combined electricity and heat generation. Let me give you just one example. In the cities of Ivan-Frankivsk and Hmelnick, the introduction of utilities. 1 megawatt and 2.4 megawatts of these plants saved 1.1 billion dollars last year. Dear friends, the President of Ukraine has made it a task for the government to fill specific areas of business reform, which would allow citizens to experience positive effects in the current year, particularly on the reliable operation of thermal supply systems. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, the government is working on a road map or, more simply, a plan of action for the housing sector, which will be considered at the end of February at a nationwide meeting with representatives of local governments. As I conclude my speech, I would like to point out once again that the accidents that have taken place on municipal heating systems, particularly in Alcevsk and Alexandria, have shown that we cannot leave local self-government alone with problems that have accumulated in the area of housing and utilities for decades. Only through joint efforts by the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the central and local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u114	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u115	Central and local executives, local self-government and public authorities will be able to overcome the crisis in housing and utilities, ensure permanent work in the field and provide quality services to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u116	Questions Will Be Answered? Let's sign up. Yeah, something's wrong. And I don't, and now I do. Please, five minutes. Rírouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u117	Rimaruk, “Ukraine” faction. Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u118	Please, it's Peckshank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u119	Dear rapporteur, it is easy for me to speak to you, you are a former colleague of ours, and you know that the issues that you are reporting today, especially for seniors, are very sobering. Unfortunately, I think you've made little concrete proposals to minimize the problem. Let's say, in my opinion, one of the acute problems is tariffs. I think I need a public authority to deal objectively with each of the tariff stations and where the operators are unobjectively overestimating them, interfering and orderly, because in Zaporozhye region, the weaker the economic region, especially in rural areas, the higher the tariffs. Second. Exciting motives are needed to create conditions in the agricultural sector. You haven't touched that particular problem at all. The Selcomonhos, they're loaded, they have absolutely no economic, no economic, no prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u120	Thank you. First, about the tariffs. We are at a meeting that is proposed to be held at the end of February, and we will propose concrete plans for a change in tariff policy. The position of the government on this issue. We have to be honest about the economy of utilities, which should be that the poor person is protected, that the rich person pays the full cost and that the economic costs of utilities are controlled so that the cost does not go too far. This triad will allow, let, if you speak figuratively, allow, conditionally speaking, to make this foundation on which we can fight so that we can engage and invest, so that we can actually reorganize the farms. If we are in the housing and utility system to intervene daily with political decisions as is being done today, unfortunately, the perspective is very bad. As for the agricultural sector, there are several even administrative problems, and we have taken the initiative to transfer this block from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Construction, Architecture, Housing and Utilities to allow for a single policy-making methodology in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u121	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear reporter! I can agree with you in many ways, what we have now encountered in the area of housing and utilities is the result that we have not paid attention to this system for many years. And I think what you've been set up to report from the government today is also not a beauty for the prime minister or vice-premiers and so on, and that tells us what the job is going to be like. But I do have a question for you as to how it might have happened that the fall government did not make the right decision on your field. Then no one proposed to the economic and social development plan. Yesterday, the President is speaking to us, we've been given additional materials for the deputies, and I haven't found any specific proposals, either, especially in the financial plan. Now I see the problems you've identified since 2005, which are not done and priority tasks, but what's going to happen is that it's going to be done in all of the verticals that are here in Kiev, in the villages. You said it right, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you from my particular example. When I came to the local government office, it was back in Soviet times, we were looking every second day about the delivery of bread to the city, the third session of milk and butter, and so on, I don't want to repeat it. So let's look at the housing sector as an economic sector. Let's stop interfering with the political levers and I guarantee you we don't need to make any decisions, we don't need to take action, we don't need Kiev to prepare for the winter. From a managerial point of view, you just know that today. The other day. We need honest economic policies in this area, the protection of the poor and the assistance of the state with regard to technical resupply. I admit, and from the government, this position is supported by the fact that the technology system cannot be devoted solely to local self-government -- it's the task of the state today, it's the task of local authorities, and it's the task of utilities. But once again, let me remind you: let's honestly build our policies. Now, here we are, today in this area, it's kind of like the filling of an open-ended bathroom that we just want to drop more into the tap. Let's close the traffic first, now I'm standing in front of you -- the minister, I'm not a poor person, I can pay for my utilities full cost, I think your salary also allows you to do that. Why at least for this category of people who can pay, we hold it back, we make it up, we make it up to us. So, first of all, I'm proposing the Ukrainian Law, which is adopted with regard to tariff restrictions on residential services, which have been adopted recently, is from this series that it does not force me not to pay the full cost of residential services. Honest housing policy is the best answer. I guarantee you that with this kind of honest policy, we'll forget about what agriculture is, and that every week we have to report on some accidents. And that's exactly what I'm going to tell you. And the last sentence. Today housing and utility is the only place we have that approach. Look at the bread -- no less important to the poor person than housing services -- we never made a decision here to free someone from payment for bread, and for residential services we allow it. Dear friends! It's a sector that requires attention and an economic attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u124	Thank you, take a seat, Paul Stepanovich. The committee head Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko is invited to attend the report, please for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u125	Okay, thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, before I speak, I would like to wish the minister not to speak of his inheritance. Because when assigned to a job, they ask. You know where you're going and what the situation is. And Mr. Paklusenko would ask you not to distract the minister. Today, events in Alchevsk, even the average citizen, understands the full depth of the crisis, in which Ukrainian housing and utilities were found. Without exaggeration it can be said that no other branch is in such a pitiful state, and the minister confirmed it. This disaster has demonstrated, above all, the complete helplessness of those who should respond quickly and effectively. At the same time, the dramatic situation in Alchevsk is not unexpected for our committee. According to members of the committee, the reasons for this tragedy are not only calculations and design schemes of heat supply, inadequate preparation of municipal services for the heating season, timely repairs of the thermal route, irresponsibility and serious shortcomings in this direction of executive authorities, and the absence of targeted public policies in the area of housing and utilities. Maintenance of the existing housing fund and, of course, undue funding in this area. I didn't understand when Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko said in Alchevsk that we should be doing housing reform. I can boldly say that I signed a declaration and it was written there, and the committee has repeatedly called the attention of the President and today's, and the previous governments, the local self-government authorities, to the need for first-time action on the implementation of the state-wide programme for the reform and development of housing and housing, and this law has just been spoken of by the minister. What I'm saying is that what he reported is exactly what we adopted with you two years ago. But unfortunately, last year, in the state budget for reform and legislation, I am also reporting to you, a percentage base in the legislative plan has been prepared. The program, I just said, about a state-wide development programme. Ukraine, housing arrangements, heating, drinking water, homeowners, and so forth. The base is absolutely, but unfortunately, there is absolutely no state policy and executive work today. And it was only in December 2005 that four letters from the Committee with proposals for a solution to the extremely complex situation in housing and utilities, the above-mentioned programme, were sent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And in our opinion, ignoring the government's demands and proposals to the committee has led to a catastrophic situation with a heat supply, both in Alchevsk and elsewhere in our Ukraine. But let's be honest, and the government is still actually moving away from solving housing problems. It would seem like a committee. formed, as I said. The base, and today the minister, unfortunately, did not say, and in the towers today the press asks: “What are the rates for residential services after the price of gas rises.” The Prime Minister said that by the end of the election, there would be no such thing. But today, as you can remember, there were 8 billion in housing services, and in a year, there were 9 billion. So before the election, we don't raise tariffs, we don't work. And who will put out the damage after March 26? It's all going to be on our citizens' shoulders. So I'd really like it to be, as it's supposed to be. And now for the next question. It's a very interesting document that we said the government accepted. This was the order number 404 of September 15, 2005, which approved a specific plan of action. And a very interesting document, but I would like to draw your attention only to the point of this plan: “The government will assign to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, Kiev and so on city administrations by September 25, 2005 the State to develop a work plan and prevent emergency situations in the event of a sudden change in weather conditions or an emergency.” That is, the noted performers had to make every effort in September to avoid the shortcomings that have been experienced today. And I want to say to the end, the idea that we, which we didn't do, well the structural changes that were made in the governance system last year, is on the basis of "Derbyboud" and "Residency" has been made by the Ministry. They did, but unfortunately, the set-up and the work system took almost four months. One came, Kucherenko reported, went to another place to work. And unfortunately, today those workers who mean this, and I want to say to the Minister, are not working, there is today State control over the implementation of that policy by changing housing reform, as in the center, and in places that are completely out of the question. And I would also like to say to Mr. Pecklesenko, to answer the question that you asked the minister, everything that concerns, and you've asked me that question once before, to the administration, to the vitality of a city, the city council must be responsible for the heat and the tariffs, including. There will never be a commission in place, there will never be a tariff, because in one place, I brought an example to the Dnipropetrovsk yesterday: two applied stations right in the city, and the Ulyssian water station, there is a water tariff even in one city's territory, which is already made up of these complex issues. [[Lamovska and Kadakovsky]] [[80 km]] So I'd like us to write it down with determination to rebuild the ministry. I don't think we need to re-establish the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, so functions today don't allow, but what should be the function of a separate State Committee on Housing and Utilities is a hundred percent. And then we, I think, will move out of the city of reform. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u126	Yes, there will be questions? Let's sign up. Yes, dear colleagues, while you're writing down, I remind you -- "Variable" is supposed to be today. Of course it will be. Yes, please, three minutes, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u127	Dear Valery Pavlovich, you have interrupted my conversation with the Minister not because I do not respect you, but because, unfortunately, there are few ministerial representatives in the ministerial bed today. When you were Prime Minister and Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, this bed was buried!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u129	Killed by ministers. Unfortunately, you won't see them in the daytime with fire. But it's not about that, it's about another. I don't think you're quite right when you say everything you need to pay to local councils. Regrettably, there are examples where local authorities are collusioning.Matrimonials for profit and tariffs are growing. There must therefore be a monitoring mechanism, including local authorities. Second question. I don't think we're talking about the most important thing today, the motivations. And the motivation is to be able to pay the individual and the financial territories separately. It is therefore necessary to create as many motivations as possible for local councils to have more than pay. And one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u130	Okay. Thank you. I apologize to you, too, because I wanted the minister to listen to my speech as well. So I'm sorry. So on tariff, I can say the following. As you said, for there to be no conspiracy, there should be no conspiracy, because by the law on local councils, local self-government the territorial community should, in general, choose its deputies as it should in life, and MPs choose the city council. And the City Council is choosing its executive committee. In order for there to be no conspiracy, there must be public control, first of all, of the territorial communities and of the MPs. There'll be no talking. And that's something else. Well, it's a very interesting question that really local councils are looking at other tariffs, and at the same time the government has decided to increase gas prices twice, we have to speak consciously, and this is already low, the chain is gone. Electricity prices have been raised, housing and utility tariffs are already changing. Unfortunately, there is no such system and politics. So there has to be a full state policy in this area. You don't have to fool people. No one has said today at what price gas will be sold. What he was, what he was. At least the tablet was handed to me the other day. Here's the thing! So in this way, let's make sure that there's a general policy, then we'll be dealing with all the pressing issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u131	Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u132	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian company. Please pass the word to your colleague Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u133	I even recommended that he become governor of the Zaporez region, and I remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u134	Valerius Pavlovich, you are asked questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u135	I kept my mouth shut, I said good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u136	Yes, Orzhachowski's microphone, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u137	Pomarenko, the faction of the Company. Valery Pavlovich, did you pay attention to the tables you showed us? The opposition between Kabmin and the Supreme Council is provoked. The Cabin offered 300 million, 180, 50, and the Supreme Council allocated only 80, that's the first. And secondly, in this year’s budget, one billion in emergency subsidies to local budgets, emergency operations, and social services, I remember last year only a list of objects was published at the end of August. I was in Mirgorod, there was a problem with the heath, I was dating the mayor. Mer says, “I don’t know what else these subsidies will give me.” When Paul Stepanovich was on the Committee on Budgets, he resisted that and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u138	I'll answer your question. Thank you very much. I can answer boldly, but here we are, two members of the committee -- Bogdan Kostinyuk, Isaiah, who refer to our committee, and I thank them for our work together. We have never considered political issues, purely professional. I am responsible for the fact that all the legislative acts necessary for reform have been prepared. I made a list and you were handed out. And there's 23 laws and several regulations, that's the first. Now, to let you know that the draft budget that Janukovich had submitted was for the program that the minister was showing, 425 million dollars, and then a new draft budget was left with zero. This committee insisted, and then Pinzenic was asked to leave 50 million, at least for various expenses. And today, I can safely say, on the contrary, the committee has offered three and a half times as many. What do we propose? There's a law that I said about small cities -- zero two years in a row. This goes only to the development of cities, including heating supplies, on the other hand, not on wages. And similarly, it needs to be spent on technology, it has to be done, and it has to be done, not reform, so that we don't pay for technology, because it's more expensive than reform. That is why both things are foretold today. And you don't have to pee on the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u139	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u140	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u141	Yeah, we'll talk about it? We will. Let's talk. Yes, dear colleagues, here we have nine deputies, five representatives of factions. Let's take 20 minutes away from the factions first and see. Please, Valery Assadchev. Let's sign up. Get ready for Food.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u142	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka. I liked the minister’s report, and I think he said objectively and honestly about the situation today. It's been created for many years, you have to be honest about it. I would just like to point out one point that is highlighted by both Catchure and Valérie Pavlovich Pashtowatenko. This is about tariffs. I cannot accept that tariffs are solely the authority of the local authorities. The point is that the part where the minimum standards are raised by the Supreme Council and the minimum wage standards take their place in tariffs, the part where the government signs agreements with other gas prices, it should be centralized, it should be centralized throughout the country. This is part of the tariff. And the second part of the tariff, according to Valérie Pavlovich, is that it already depends on local characteristics, because in one case it will be one cost, in other cases it should be another cost. Today, all tariffs are to be set by the local authorities, although they do not always depend solely on the size of the tariff. And it depends, including the decisions of the Central Authorities, including the Supreme Council, when it decides on the moratorium, when it decides on benefits for the rich when it does not adopt the new Budget Code, and today it has led the local budgets, in fact, to poverty. They just don't really have money in their local budgets to do utilities. And I'd like to pay more attention. As far as the houses are concerned. We have a totally unequal housing situation in place today. We have condominiums, cooperative houses pay more for utilities, so let's say houses of communal property. Although the same services are the same, the same quality of these services. But somehow cooperative condominiums have to pay more. Why? I think it's a matter of politics and strategy. And I'd like to make that decision, because there's no time. I can't agree to that. Put all the responsibility on the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm sorry, and why we shouldn't take responsibility, let's say Alcevsky is the mayor of Alcevska. I think he's the first one to be responsible. Only because he's a member of the Party of the Regions. I don't think that's right, dear friends. Also, admit your mistake that he too is guilty of the situation in Alchevsk. I think that the Supreme Council should take some responsibility for the social situation and assume responsibility for the adoption of the budget code and other legislation related to the communal sphere. So I think that it is the communal sphere and the problems that have arisen in it that should unite us, I once said. Because responsibility is shared here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u143	Mikhailo Zyjinov, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the address of the Association of Cities of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the state of Ukrainian housing and utility, which was adopted by the Government of the Association of Cities on February 7th of this year. In addition, the People’s Movement faction supports this appeal by a hundred percent. Ukraine's distinguished national deputies, the Association of Ukrainian Cities and Communities, rural, rural, urban, and urban leaders have repeatedly expressed concern that no sector of the state's economy is subject to political interference with economic activity and pricing processes such as the housing and utility complex. Recently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity. The introduction of a moratorium on higher housing and utility tariffs, with constant rises in energy prices, increases in minimum wage levels lead to a financial collapse in households and social tensions in society. Another factor in the crisis that is taking place in the housing and utility economy of Ukraine is the irregularity and legislative expansion of the number of benefits categories of citizens. So far, more than 25 Ukrainian laws are in place, but only 4 of them have defined sources of funding for these benefits, with utilities being forced to provide housing services to the above-mentioned categories of citizens under reduced tariffs. Taking into account also the technical, financial situation of the sector, which is in the housing fund of 1 out of every 3 houses, requires capital or current repairs, more than 10,000 elevators have worked for 25 years and need replacements. In the water supply and sewage industry, the fourth part of the water treatment plant at 1 in 5 pumped station worked on the project’s operating time. Many of the thermal networks and thermal sites are in an emergency. Business losses amount to over 1 billion dollars, wages for residential workers amounted to 132 million dollars, tax debts increased to 405 million dollars. Against this background, this year’s accidents in Alcevsk and other cities in Ukraine are real and not exceptional. And in general, the state of Ukrainian housing and utilities today has acquired a status that threatens the national security of the state. Therefore, we ask you, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, to provide legislative support for the permanent functioning of this vital sector for the population of Ukraine by providing adequate financial resources or by removing the burden of financial burden that lies on the sector through an unthinkable system of taxation, rising energy prices and increasing tax categories. And what is involved in the decision is that it needs to be worked out. It is not acceptable in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u145	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, “Reforms and Order”. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u146	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, Party “Reforms and Orders”, “PRA-PRP block”. Dear friends! Today we're talking about housing and utilities, that's the sphere that hasn't changed anything and any reform -- that's where the root of all evil lies. Why are we talking about the need for reform? The management schemes that are now in operation in this system provide that the person paying for services, or citizen, is cut off from the person who provides them and between them is a lining called CHEK or otherwise. But people pay for JEK, and services provide other people, so this irresponsibility arises on this chain of transitions. Today, Kyiv’s example shows particularly vividly some of the things involved in the need for reform. I have already told the city council on a number of occasions that the problem is that about 30 percent of the network that supplies heat and water in Kiev is homeless. In the transfer of housing, and so on, there were certain events that led to those who provide these services saying that these networks don't count, they're not accepted on balance, or we don't have implementing documentation on them, so we're not going to repair them. And it's these networks that are spilling out, it's losing a huge amount of resources. At the same time, no one refused to take the money for the services provided on these networks. So it's unstoppable. The second is a dictatorship of Kiyevenergo's energy suppliers. This dictatorship is that we are the only ones in the European space who left the so-called E-8 form in the hands of heating suppliers. The point is that the two sides, one accepts the service and the other gives it, so why does the E-8 form allow for the inclusion of heating networks by the service provider. He may not be ready himself, but he dictates to everyone and gives this form, or he doesn't, by putting everyone on their knees in contractual processes. I want to say that such a system is still born and that without counters, a citizen cannot set up objectively, and how much he has consumed and how much he has not consumed, so a huge amount of resources are lost again by water and by sunbathing, and no one is responsible for it today. It's all on tariff. And it's said here that the tariff should be raised, or maybe we should see what's included. In Kiev, for example, including Kievenergo’s shorts, 1 million 400,000, included, hopeless so-called debts, for which people were then drawn, included many things that should not be included, particularly the servicing of the Kiev dining rooms, the Energy Club and much more. So the absence of an objective form of calculation is also one of the problems that exists there today. I would also like to say that today citizens have been removed from the governance system in this area and those so-called "." and "BZBK" would like to get their financial documents for the house and get some of the paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u147	Please, Vladimir Matthew, excuse me, Valentin Matthews, Communist faction, prepare Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! As we know, this is a test of authority. The evidence shows that today’s orange authorities have not endured it, including a cold drink. Because of the inaction of the authorities of the last month in Ukraine alone, about a thousand citizens died from the cold, who will be responsible for these deaths? As we can see, the attitude of government officials toward these problems has been demonstrated today in the consideration of the so - called Cabinet of Ministers report, when we see only one executive minister in bed. It is known that during the orange revolution, it was given to its supporters by the better Kyiv buildings, so perhaps the leaders of the revolution, and today, they would think, and they would wake up in a cold time, not just the Ukrainian House, not the Yellow Palace, nor the House of Trades, nor the Kyiv House, but at least a few dozen beds in heated hotels. Can humanism be paid by the Berezovskys and the Americans in your plans, the orange plans don't go in? At the same time, Georgia is receiving $2 million in aid. A legitimate question arises: From what sources, according to whose decision is this made? And to cope with the social catastrophe, we emphasize that the social catastrophe in Alcevsk is five times less than the cost. And if, by the way, in the city of Alchevsk and today, as it was with the Soviet authorities, I was working in the state, and I emphasize, a state-owned metallurgical combination, not a private one like today, there would certainly be no problems in the city today. In the Supreme Council, in our view, at the legislative level, it is necessary to determine that the provision of heat, electricity, water is one of the main functions of the state in life-supporting citizens. Accordingly, the violation of warm water and electricity should be viewed as a gross violation of the laws, such as an attack on the life and health of our citizens. The reason for all of these failures is that we see silently in power, in the system of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u149	Igor Shurma faction of Social Democrats, prepare Sokirka. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u150	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] It seems to me that when in 2004, those people who call themselves adherents of the orange idea could never have imagined that they would give birth to power that would be completely different from those people. Orange ideas and orange people stayed, and oranges came and borrowed chairs. The minister, who has nothing to offer to the Supreme Council and Ukrainian society, will go to the rostrum here and appeal to basic values. I have a lot of respect for Mr. Kachure, because it was when he was working in Lviv, in his 90 ’ s, that he removed the problem of transportation. But the democratic authorities thought it was abuse and kicked him out of Lviv, and he was gone for a long time until he found the minister's chair and would try to do something here. But I would like to say to the acting minister. Do not appeal to honesty, for there are probably no greater patriots than in Lviv. This is also seen in the vote as they support the President and the “Our Ukraine” bloc. But raise the question of what is the debt of the Levites for payment in the communal sphere. That's how it works, isn't it? I'm a patriot, not when I have to pay for services. It seems to me that, unfortunately, this empty bed, as the President of Ukraine said in Zaporozhye, is the same because he called the people who are the executive branch of power due to the fact that they don't have a housing-communal reform programme today. So today, from the rostrum, they only answer the question of the MPs in charge of the minister's duties, and today they know that they have only one choice left to live before the elections, and then their fate will depend solely on whether they make a deal with who they fought in the presidential race, divide the portfolios, and then, using the resources of their partners, they will approach the housing-communal reform. We warned that 2005 is a critical year of communication. There's nothing eternal. And there's such a concept as endurance. And everyone has to be prepared regardless of color and from ideology that housing-communal sphere, if not discussed during the preparation period for the winter-summer period, it's doomed to extinction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u151	Mikola Sokirko, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u152	Mikola Sokirko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear people's deputies, the previous authorities have spoken many beautiful words about housing-communal reform. The concept of modernizing it was adopted back in 1995. Yet it is not the only sector of the economy that has not been affected by market transformation. The faction "Our Ukraine" sees the failure of local authorities as the main cause of the extraordinary adventure in the Alchevsk Lugansk region and in the city of Alexandria. In addition, we emphasize that the premeditation of these accidents was the complete inaction of the previous authorities, both Soviet and Yanukovich, Cuchma, and Krawczuk. Notice that pipes do not freeze in Vinnica, Ternopol, Žitomiri, where democratic transformations have already touched virtually every aspect of life. But the pipes freeze in Alchevsk, Lugansk, where the former blue regime has shown concern solely for its own pockets. We believe that the Cabinet of Ministers needs to pay attention to the immediate assessment of housing problems on the ground and to the responsibility of those who allow emergency use of heat. The open speculation on the human mountain, which is now echoing from today's opposition to power, is an open expression of cynicism, because 15 years in the country have done nothing to change the structure of our industry and not even thought about energy conservation. In recent years, nothing has been done in Ukraine to reform housing and utilities. Therefore, the faction expresses its support for President Viktor Yushchenk's proposal for urgent and radical reform of the utility system in Ukraine. And that's why the faction's proposals today are echoing in such a context that it's at the center where practical steps are being made for immediate improvement in housing and utilities, such as setting up a specific community-based environment because of the widespread involvement of private businesses. A person has the right to choose, not to use what is imposed on him. To prevent accidents similar to those in Alcevsk, immediately initiate the construction of local mining mines, implement housing subsidies in line with municipal tariffs, and further optimize municipal pricing policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u153	30 seconds. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, 45 seconds. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I just took the floor because you can't say such injustice. What, since the 17th year, when trumpets have been laid in lands where no one has been laid in Europe, is it that they have been worried about housing problems or not?Oh, my God! What, did Yushchenko ruin your life in one year? Especially in the eastern regions where the apartments are empty, where the $100 apartments are sold! You did it! You've done it all in the regions! And you don't want to answer. Who's the deputy from Alcevsk? Yushchenka, Carmazin, or from the comfaction? Let's call things our names and stop lying! That's how it's going to be, and then it's going to be there, and until it's "not so" and it's not there, it's going to be the right name of your block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u155	Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please wait. It's going to be "Rose," it will be. It's going to be "Victane". But as we agreed yesterday that we have here the draft decree and the national deputies of Gmir and Zibank, I'm giving Gmir three minutes to present the draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u156	Thank you. Sergei Gmyrra, Alchevsk. Well, not Deputy Alchevska, I was elected by the Communist Party's list in these elections to make Mr. Carmazin know. So, I'd like to offer you your attention, Mr. Ckitishvili's deputy. A draft decision on the unsatisfying status of work on the elimination of an accident in the residential area in Alchevsk Lugansk region. Dear colleagues! The regulation consists of four paragraphs. First point. The Cabinet of Ministers must report on what has been done in Alchevsk. I have. This has been done formally, although I would like to hear much more from the Cabinet of Ministers what he has done in a particular situation in a particular city. There is no abstract truth. The truth is always concrete. And thinking about what needs to be done to reform the industry in the future, unfortunately, we have some kind of missing people. The second paragraph of the ruling is in principle. The Cabinet of Ministers is not slow to calculate the total amount of losses
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u157	What about the microphone? Three minutes, three minutes, please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u158	The second paragraph, the Cabinet of Ministers, should immediately recalculate the total loss incurred by Alchevska and each resident. Here are two points: the first, using some opaque schemes, we are very grateful to the Crucifixes for the fact that it makes money. But it's not her business, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. How can we account for this? I don't understand. And the second moment, the inhabitants of Alcevska were affected, every Alcevska resident suffered losses. They are forced to use additional energy – this has to be compensated. There's repairs to be done in the houses, and that's what needs to be done. The sewers could freeze tomorrow. I mean, it's not just the greedys, it's the whole country. If the authorities knew what they would have to pay for each of them, might they consider what to do? The third paragraph would suggest that the people's deputies be credited with three days'wages to assist the Alcevites. Well, the fourth item, the Construction Committee, is to take control of the implementation of this order. Dear comrades, I would like to say more about what is not in the ruling. We have not raised the question of the establishment of a commission, of responsibility. There's a dispute: Who's to blame? Let's be honest, it's everyone who's been running this country for 15 years. There was a question of Soviet power, Soviet power was also to blame for building normal-powered communications, not those that would not take words, to call it the word that must have come to power in 1991. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u159	Yes, please, Paul Stepanovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u160	Hello, distinguished national deputies, first of all, I would like to address Gregory Grigorovich Ponomarenko. Gregory Grigorovich, the table that was presented, was not intended to bring about a confrontation. That's a statement of the fact that we have funding today. And I'm sorry if you've misunderstood her. The other one. What you've counted money for technological catastrophes and regional development projects, I call on you, I've reviewed half of these proposals coming from the national MPs -- there's no money available for utilities. Just so you know why I gave this table. Next, I'd like to go to Mr. Igor Shurma and tell him that here, in Kiev, I was in a major district, and because of the direct trust of the citizens, I came to the session hall, not looking for a job. And as a minister, I've only agreed because I understand what the problems are, I've worked with these problems directly and I want to be. And I want to be useful, actually, in implementing state policy in this direction. Next for Alczewski. As for Alczewski, the work continues, and I would like to refer to the national MPs, there's a lot of information. I'm in charge of an investigation committee. We'll finish the job, I'll be ready to give you full information about what happened there, why it happened there, and why it happened. The work was not finished there, and I did not touch that aspect in my speech. The work is done, the President's mandate is, this commission will be accomplished and people will be warm. But it is clear that there is a great deal of work that we have not even imagined. Today, more than 100 million dollars have been taken away by an accident in Alcev. And last of all, with regard to the draft ruling, there's a point that concerns the creation of a sustainable comongosp. It was only in November that we eliminated the State of the Comongosos. I understand that this can be done, but let's just do some half-year period or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u161	Thank you. Yes, Valery Pavlovich, one minute. If you report. Please, the Hermit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u162	Thank you very much. I want to. I have two of those proposals. I can support the minister’s proposal that the government resign. It's left to the election campaign for a month and a month and a new government executive body, I don't think it's appropriate. And I'm asking you to take that off the committee. Fifth paragraph. This is the fourth one. I am introducing a new proposal or a new one for your consideration. The Cabinet of Ministers for one month will decide on debts in the residential sphere. Today's debt, I said 9 billion. They're hanging and they're pressing really hard. And there was a third proposal from Valery Assadchev and the minister. Not only should the Cabinet of Ministers be responsible, but the local council of the city of Alcevska should be responsible for what happened in the city. I would like to support such suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have concluded our discussion of a matter that has been insisted upon by many factions. Questions of extreme importance, of wickedness, as it were, in both disasters and in those who died. And it's a shame that we've had this discussion with not so much activity, not the number of national MPs that have raised these problems. I think that each one of you, especially now, is seeing reality as you visit the regions intensively. He sees, he understands, he realizes that Alchevsk is the first bell. Sadly, others follow him. Because really, everything has a limit. I repeat, don't scream, don't scream. Others follow. We're talking about Alcevsky. Alexandria was. Now in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there is this situation. Last week, I was in two parts of the Herson region, Chaplinka and Novotroitsky. For 10 years, if not more, the residents of one dormitory house have no heat or water at all. bourgeois, as much as you can use. It's not a solution. I'm not saying who's to blame, Yuri Anatolyovich. Don't get excited. There's Chucklevo. A whole microregion in the village of Čkalovo, about 15 or 20 multistory buildings, years5, years 5, and more, 10 years, no heat, no water, and so on. And these are examples that each of you can give quite a lot and a lot, so I think we need to take a pretty serious look at the draft ruling, and since there are two draft decrees here, and a committee of professionals, and national deputies, I would like to ask a committee of professionals to merge these decisions into one, in one determination, to put them there, Valeriy Pavlovich, the same proposals that you just made. There may be proposals in the National Deputies. Take it to the training committee and we'll be on the next Tuesday, perhaps if it's ready, when we and other issues related to the Cabinet of Ministers will be considered. If not, we will make a balanced decision on these issues in the next plenary week. Now, dear colleagues, we're going to go to different places with you, but I would ask if it were your will, if it were your will, we have a draft law approving the National Strategy for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine for 2006-2015, registration number 8617. I'm asking you, let's vote on this program. The authors here are representatives of all factions. I'll bet you a vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, let's vote once. I am voting on the National Strategy for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine for 2006-2015, registration number 8617. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:31:49]] For-147 Well, next time we'll see. It's very nice to see you, too. And the fact that you were filing papers. You may ask to speak, but we do have a "Council" system, you come to meetings, please, for the first time, I see you in the hall. That's very good, and you see me for the first time, because you've come to a meeting in four years. That's good. We have the "Council" system, I'll tell you where the recordings are made, I'm not your tech secretary. Sign up, turn around, and tell me how you brought Alcevsky to the pen. Please subscribe to the “Variable”. Please show the list. Look, please take 45 minutes. I'm sorry, we'll limit it to 15 minutes. Please, Kobec, get ready for Orzhachowski. 45 minutes. Please, Kobec, I understand. Please, I give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u164	Grand National Deputies, Grand Chief! Dear listeners! Today, accusations were made against Ukrainian heroes who chose independence from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, namely, members of the Ukrainian Nationalists and members of the Ukrainian rebel army. I express my indignation and indignation at the thousands and thousands of Ukrainians who have been forced to listen to these false accusations today. Not enough, let's think about who made these accusations. These accusations were made by those who are the heirs of the very forces that destroyed Ukraine in the western lands of Ukraine, who falsely built communism in the eastern lands of Ukraine and who today, with very little blood, and here in Parliament again yesterday, they shed the blood of our deputy because they, you see, disliked the Ukrainian President, they disliked the Ukrainian President to the point that they were ignoring the moral standards of the people, they didn't even rise from their seats when the President of Ukraine, the highest official of the Ukrainian state, came to this room. I think our voters know exactly why this is happening, because it is these forces that have not voted in favour of Ukraine's budget for all 14 years in this Parliament. These forces were among those who resigned the government this year. These forces provoke a gas scandal, and these forces are doing everything they can to make Ukraine worse, not better. I think it's not just history, but our voters will come to the right conclusions. Since gas scandals still exist in our country and some want to prove what you see, only today's authorities are bad at signing documents, would I ask the highest official in Russia of President Putin to tell the story, and what gas schemes have been in place for the past 14 years? And who was.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u165	Please, the Orzhachov Anatoly faction of Communists, Mikoli Komaru, prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u166	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear colleagues, voters. First of all, I'd like to tell the previous colleague who was here. Whatever you say and whatever you say against the Soviet authorities and against the Communists and Communists that we have built, millions of people today say good things about him and would be happy to return to him. In my speech, I want to draw the attention of the public and the State's law enforcement authorities to the problems of the use and exploitation of Ukrainian minors. It is often said that there are things that are too precious. However, there are cases where only words are based on a similar estimate. We say children are our future. At the same time, many of them are exploited in the form of employment. Similarly, Ukraine, its authority, poses no threat to the state and society. Today, no one will be surprised by the picture on the street when boys wash cars of newly discovered masters, sell periodicals, clean rooms, and carry insurmountable loads. Hersonschi, especially in Kalanchik, Sadowski, Zurich, and other areas, have developed other forms of child labor. Ukrainian legislation is known to clearly regulate the employment of minors, but the authorities ignore it, allowing it to be violated locally, especially at the level. Fearful things become evident. For example, in the village of Kalanča in the Herson region, cheap child labour is hired at the intersection of roads, which the people call a “market”. It's really a cheap market, more specifically a slave labor force. Children work in Koreans, individual farmers for 11 hours, with only a 15 - minute break. For their work, they receive cash for the produce they collect. There are often cases where so - called hosts are not counted at all, or sometimes they force children to work after work. I ask the authorities, the lawkeepers: Are our children slaves or cattle? Why is the President silent about this, by the way, yesterday? Indeed, it is news that in many areas of Ukraine child labor is used in trade in markets and trays. Is that our capitalist European choice and their values? This is because articles 172, 173 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provide for the criminal responsibility for the exploitation of children. Communists believe that this has been made possible by the fact that in many government offices, people who do not want to protect their people are covering the dark business affairs of businessmen, rural masters. There's another reason. Children themselves go to hard work because of a difficult socio-economic situation, both in the state and in specific families. Children from disadvantaged families tend to take precedence over those who are underage. For most children, not in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u167	Mikola Komar. Michael Sokirko gives us the word Usachenko to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u168	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions again draws attention to the numerous problems of the Ukrainian housing and utility sector, which are due to the irresponsibility of the current executive. As a result of the severe cooling down of millions of Ukrainian citizens, the problem of the lack of heat in their apartments was faced by Ukraine6. More than 800 people have died from the cold in the country in recent weeks. In the twenty-first century, these figures sound frightening. The faction of the Party of the Regions declares. If the Government of Viktor Yanukovic had been in power today, what had happened in Alcevska and other settlements would not have happened. It was in 2004 that the Government of Januković, for the first time in years of independence, budgeted for housing and utility support. To warn, I stress that nearly 500 million bracelets have been and are fully allocated to prevent technological catastrophes. In 2004, the deliberate and coordinated action of Kabmin Yanuković with local authorities helped to raise the issue of reconstruction of local housing and utilities to the level of the State programme. If last year the Lugansk region had received the 75 million bracelets that had to be obtained according to the programme, there would have been no accident in Alcevsk today. However, Kabmin Timoshenko did not pay attention to the problem of disaster prevention. Last year, the Cabinet of Ministers transferred the JCC to the balance of local councils without a balance sheet. And the regional authority in Luhansk, yes, and in many other areas, before the beginning of the heating season, has resolved itself from the problems of the territories, not people, but the results of the elections. Unfortunately, the result did not slow down. The faction of the Party of the Regions states that only a deliberate and profound reform of the housing and utility sector will avoid disasters like Alcheva. The Party of the Regions has developed a development strategy for Ukraine to stabilize the economy and improve the standard and quality of life of people. The most important part of the programme is to give maximum autonomy to the regions. We will provide local authority with sufficient financial resources to enable it to ensure the well-being of citizens in the region. The current power is not interested in the sustainable development of the regions. Suffice it to say that if the Government of Yanuković had 46 per cent of local budgets in the consolidated budget, the current authority had reduced it to almost 30 per cent. The regions have virtually taken away the leverage of the situation. The faction of the Party of the Regions states: such tragedies as in Alcevska and other cities would not have been the case if the country had a responsible authority to prepare in advance for emergency situations. We assure our citizens that after the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u169	Larissa Usachenko, prepare for Belarus Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u170	Larissa Usachenko, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The problem of protecting the constitutional rights of citizens today is extremely relevant because of the fact that there are hidden accidents of industrial trauma in businesses, factories, and factories. Ukraine’s Constitution provides the right to adequate safe and healthy working conditions. Why, in practice, appropriate officials who, according to the law, are required to demonstrate the existence of manufacturing violations are taking comprehensive and coordinated action to address the causes of occupational illness accidents? They do not properly carry out their duties by concealing the circumstances noted, as evidenced by the numerous appeals of citizens who ask for help, protecting their legal rights, health, life from overcoming leadership, violating the rules of the Constitution, labour legislation, irresponsibly treating their obligations to ensure a proper manufacturing process, not wanting to be held accountable for their negligence, officials guilty of violating the rules of protection of work, seek to avoid disciplinary, administrative, material or criminal responsibility. We need to realize that the security of citizens in jobs is one of the fundamental essential social development and stability of the state. Equally important is the need to pay more attention to such an important social issue as the rehabilitation of workers affected by accidents in manufacturing and occupational diseases, the implementation of measures aimed at their recovery, including the provision of sanitation, the transfer to safe workplaces, the provision of legislation recommended by doctors, and the possibility of retraining new professions. Please consider my application as a parliamentary request to the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the rightfulness of work on labour protection, the functioning of labour protection services, the development and implementation of comprehensive measures to achieve established safety standards, occupational hygiene and the production environment, the raising of existing levels of protection of work, the handling of accidents, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the state of investigation of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens in view of the fact of concealing accidents, occupational diseases and industrial accidents, and the invocation of responsibility of the guilty persons. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u171	Thank you. Yes, please, Oleg Belarus. Nigga's giving it to Kendzior and Kendzior Stupaku. Place it in place of Black Kendzer, and there's Kendzer, Stupaka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u172	Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, the Central Election Commission today published a programme of the election bloc of political parties, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The main idea of this program is the social, political, national and national solidarity of citizens throughout Ukraine. "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block", addressing Ukrainian citizens during this particularly important period, urges: Ukrainian citizens, unite, unite to restore and equip Ukraine, for the health and happiness of your children, your families, your grandchildren. And we are united in spirituality, we are united in the desire to lead Ukraine on the path of progress and development, and it will put it as a great European country among the European nations and nations. Our Block urges all political forces to follow the path of political information honesty before their people, to stop the information war against everyone, because it destroys the national patriotic resource of development. The only priority that we put at this stage is true justice, the dictatorship of law, not even the Law, but the rights, the integrity of our courts and the justice of our decisions, so that every citizen is convinced that he can find truth and justice. The urgent task of the program is to overcome the violent picture that still exists in Ukraine. Terrorism, crime, corruption lead to destruction and injustice. We demand that the highest authority be just. To that end, we propose a solidarity economy programme, such as the economy of the people's democratic enterprise, the initiative of every citizen to work and earn money. To do this, you have to enter, move from fiscal to incentive tax systems. To do this, we need to balance the positions and positions of the city and the village, stop the degradation and extinction of our villages, and take the path of investment in development. We offer Ukrainian citizens new social policies and social programs. This is the first program.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Cherniak gave the word to Kendzior. Prepare Grigorovitch. Passes the word to Zizku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u174	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Today’s authorities have eliminated the catastrophes imposed over the past 70 years by the Communist regime and in the past 15 years by the criminal regime of Kuchma, Yanuković, Medvedchuk. But these, I think, mines of slow action are nothing with those future catastrophes that might be set up today. I mean the next parliamentary election. I have no idea if, in a European state, a candidate for the presidency and in the word “professor” of two “e”, two “f”, if he had made three mistakes in the title of his post, Prime Minister. If such a candidate for president, the poor man, cannot distinguish Renat Ahmet from Anna Ahmetova, he has confused everything in the world today, Odessa. I said it all, Jura, all this confusion. Well, we also had party actors in Galicina who couldn't tell and confuse Antonic and Antonovich. Similarly, this “professor ” confuses Anna Ahmet with Renate. Anna Ahmatova and Rinath Ahmatov. So if such intellectuals, if they are “professors”, respected society, honourable voters go to Parliament, if such a “professor” comes with his “aspirants” to the next parliament, we can imagine what the Ukrainian Parliament will be like, and what fate awaits the Ukrainian state. I find all this confusion between Ahmatov and Ahmat very strange. At a time when there are such great intellectuals near Mr. “Professor” as Anna Herman, such as Taras Crnovil, well, I'm already in the hall, those intellectuals, as they say, scratching my pants. So today, thinking about eliminating the disasters imposed by previous regimes, and thinking about the future of Ukraine, I urge all voters to look at them in four eyes so that we don't succeed, open the gateways to the worst disasters, to the people of the hammocks, to the ignorant, to the free, to the illiterate, to the people who come before.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u175	Sergey Zizko. To prepare, Sergey Shevchuk gave the word Bondarenko Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u176	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. Head, MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to devote my remarks to yesterday's anti-presidential effort, to the involvement in the Supreme Council of regulations aimed at strengthening the pro-Russian vector in Ukrainian foreign policy. The so - called friendly relations between the fraternal nations, to which some of the political powers of Ukraine are fond, are neither and will never be the basis for the development of interstate relations. The Russian political elite has long recognized the ancient truth – real politics is governed solely by the interests of the state. And the interests of the Russian state in the Kremlin are primarily understood as imperial interests. To understand the real attitude of Russian politics toward Ukraine, it is enough to turn to the originals. For example, the author of a popular Russian geopolitical textbook, Nartov, states: “Ukraine has become a natural object of defeat for Russia, ” and the Kremlin’s political scientist, Dugin, makes it clear that Ukraine, as a state, has no geopolitical meaning. The continued existence of a unitary Ukraine is unacceptable. This area should be divided into several strips that correspond to the range of geopolitical and ethnocultural realities. That is the reality, although the undeclared public position of Russia is evidenced by a distanced, unbiased, systematic analysis of the development of interstate relations. In particular, in the political realm, these relationships are characterized by the constant expansion of political influence in Sevastopol, the provocation of spontaneous conflicts, or around Tuzla, or around lighthouses, or the landing of landings. In economic terms, Russia's actual refusal to create a free trade zone, a hardened gas war, a meat-milk and cheese-milk war, approved by the Russian Government of the decision to establish an anti-dumping duty on pipes from Ukraine, the initiation of the State Duma to review the decision to withdraw VAT from the country of destination and the intention to place new gas pipelines around Ukraine. So this is Russia's expansion of resistance across the spectrum of economic relations. And in the area of information, we're looking at the unfolding of the unfriendly rhetoric of Russian high-owners, the increasing volume of all negatives about Ukraine. It is worth noting that this course was initiated by Russia long ago, at the time of the adopted, acceptable to Russia to the Ukrainian President and three times congratulated on the victory in the election of the ex-Prime Minister. We should not expect any made - up friendship, for even the Russian proverb says friendship with friendship and tobacco abuse. All talk about the CIS and the EP is just tools to weaken Ukraine, to involve it in the sphere of Russian influence. And only the firm governmental position of the new Ukrainian authorities is a guarantee of the development and further prosperity of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u177	Olena Bondarenko. He gave Karmazin the word to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I'm going to talk about two important things, I think, about not being able to apply administrative influence in the election campaign and forming party ranks. And the second. After all, I want to go back in a few words to the question of lifting parliamentary immunity. I have no doubt about the sincere desire of President Viktor Andriovich Yushchenk of Ukraine to see the 2006 elections transparent, honest and free. But there are certain doubts that all party officials who identify themselves with Victor Andryovich understand the word in word and literally the word of their honorable head. For example, in the village of Rygorodok, where I was present in the rural east, dedicated to the report of the head of the Berdichov District State Administration on work in nine months. I'm not going to talk about the quality of this report, when in an extremely cold club for a hundred years not heated, people sit for an hour and a half and listen to a monotonous report from a paper run by a vice president of the district administration. I'm not talking about the fact that there's still no gas in the village of Raígrodek, in the village of Lamish, in the village of Martinivka, which also enters the village, and people are suffering, gardens, schools, and so on. And the audience heard no positive comments in this report about their native villages. I'm talking about something else, about the fact that there's a single tent next to this unheated club and there's an advocacy for one political power, represented by the head of the district administration, and he's a candidate for the district council from the same political power. It was found that such reports were planned in all areas, for all district administrations with appropriate advocacy. This is usually a very unprofessional approach to our great happiness, much more professional in our time, our opponents than our current officials, and that is very encouraging, but I would very much like that not to happen again. In addition, there, in this area, the village of Bistrik was seen by a representative of another party, a representative who is a village head and during the struggle for the presidency of such a strained one for all of us, she was very active in aging for Yanukovic, and then, as it were, she began smoothly, violating all the rules of the Constitution, demanding entry into another party. And the last thing I want to say. With regard to the fact that the Yulia Timoshenko Block, before forming its list, signed a moral statement by the candidates: they renounce any State aid, and they also initiate and insist on a decision on the abolition of parliamentary immunity primarily for local council members, as well as for members of the Supreme Council. Today, we voted in favour of this issue, and we voted the most.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u179	Please, Yuri Carmazin, prepare Stupak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland, The Jury of Carmazin. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, these are the 10 deputies who are present in the hall. Yesterday, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine stressed in his annual report that the nation’s health is a priority. But by the end of 2002, the decision of the Odessa District State Administration under the criminal authority, Ishmael’s interdepartmental oncospirator had been reorganized at Israeli City Hospital 3 and the replacement of this status for the city meant that the medical facility was intended to serve exclusively the citizens of Ishmael, the residents of the area who were denied the right to visit this hospital. They have to be treated and examined in the Odessa district oncodipenser, about 200 kilometers away. Taking into account the severity of the disease, as well as the need for systematic treatment and external care, a similar restructuring is actually criminal. After all, it directly affects the lives and health of citizens. This is, and as a result, the number of stationary treatment sites has been reduced by 30 units. Moreover, this decision is contrary to article 49 of the Constitution, which prohibits the reduction of the existing network of medical facilities. I am glad to have been the author of this amendment. Dearly beloved, I appeal to the Minister of Health, the head of the government of Yuri Yehanurov, and I ask you to consider this to be a parliamentary request for the renewal of this 50 - year - old medical facility that has been working for and has been under construction for 50 years. Another issue that I want to draw the attention of the public and the government is that I am being approached by representatives of the Association of Ukrainian Officers, the Poltava District Organization, which is alarmed about what is happening on the railway today. I'll give you a quote from a letter to me and a letter that they asked for to be delivered to the President. I have a letter in front of me. So, in a letter in the name of the President and in my name, they wrote that on February 2nd from Poltava to Kiev, on the train “The Crucifixion” for almost 8 hours, there was no Ukrainian word on the screen, they showed only Russian programs: Notkin, Pancrates Black, songs, American film. On each railway station window, and whenever possible, the portraits of the manager of the Hunger Railways are hung. Why, and on what grounds, at the expense of the state, he advertises to his person is the spending of budget money and crime. This is what Poltava County officers write. Ladies and gentlemen, they're also asking questions about the fact that the colleges created by the heads of the government, based on the Cabinet, the Cabinet Order, are not working for different reasons, and the main thing is that the leadership's unwillingness to work openly and honestly with the public. So the head of the college, contrary to the will of the public, was appointed as the deputy head of the district government. And that's the public's effect on public policy with the eyes of our former colleague Bulba. That's what the officers write. I'm asking you to intervene!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u181	Steppe, please get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u182	Volodym Stupak, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plush. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Voters. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka wants to draw the attention of the government and parliament to the huge problem that has arisen today in the village. That's the problem with milk. The purchase price for milk in the population has dropped to 60 copies, and in some cases less. Milk is cheaper than the sale of water in the store. To a cow, it is a nursing home in every rural family. Many families live at the expense of their sold milk and meat. The meetings that took place in Cherkaščina, Montenegro, in Poltavščina, in many other areas, in every village, in every centre people cry: “Do anything, the village dies.” This problem worsened after Russian authorities imposed a ban on imports into Russia of dairy and meat products from Ukraine. Everyone understands that this is Russia’s political decision, which is a method of political and economic pressure on Ukraine. By the way, it was after a trip to Moscow by prominent Ukrainian politicians who were former prime ministers and who are now leading party and block lists. Such an unfriendly position of the Russian leadership has caused economic damage, both to Ukraine and Russia, as stated by the Russian delegation of industrialists and entrepreneurs who visited Ukraine yesterday, all the more so that a number of sirves belong to Russia. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka thinks that Russia's dairy war is the political pressure of Putin before the elections in Ukraine. This is also played by a number of factions of the Supreme Council: the Communists, the Party of Regions, which are the pro-Russian lobby in the Ukrainian Parliament. They are the ones who hinder the adoption of laws for Ukraine’s entry into the WTO, tying Ukrainian producers to the Russian market alone. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka feel that the government must take immediate action to protect the Ukrainian dairy and meat producer. The Ministry of Agriculture, which is headed by the socialist Baranowski, should be much better at protecting Ukrainian interests rather than crying and spreading their hands. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka suggest that 180 million dollars be allocated from the reserve fund to the producers of milk. This will provide a price per liter, not 50-60 copies, but much higher, and we will be able to protect the Ukrainian peasant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u183	Basil Nadrag. Prepare Solomon Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u184	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio and television audiences! We have heard with you today the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on housing and utility work. What would you like to say about this? There is only one thing to say on this subject: unfortunately, for all the years that housing and utilities exist, and until the 91st, and after the 91st, and after 2005, unfortunately, it remained at the backs of the State. Unfortunately, it is clear that the basic concepts that we have been offered here and since 2002 are now one that must be addressed in order for the population to pay for used housing and utility services. But the only question is, what payments from the population can we talk about for utilities if we have at least two options: when people don't receive utilities at all? [[Heat, water, light, garbage disposal, suitable spaces and other facilities used by all building dwellings]] Unfortunately, there is only one thing to say: in addition, we also have poor quality services with you when the battery temperature reaches 8-10 degrees and the population is forced to pay in full. Therefore, from all accounts, I would like to say only one thing that, unfortunately, despite all the conflicts, the cataclysms, and including the disaster in Alchevsk, in my native Lugansk area, we hear, unfortunately, only talk about how who wants to do it, and in the end, who and how is going to raise money from the population. But we do not hear who and how he wants to address the issues of housing and utility services. So when we're talking about improving the housing and utility system, I think we need to turn it upside down -- we need to adjust how tariffs are formed first. If the tariffs have a 50 per cent loss of heat, light and water, and this pays the population, it may be necessary to ask not only what the cost of housing and utilities producers needs to be calculated, but how much of these services are actually received by the population. You don't have to pay people for some hot tubing heating air on the street because the JECA doesn't have the brains to isolate it, that the water goes into the sewer instead of getting to the residents and everything. I would therefore like to recall once again that the People's Block of Lithuania voted in favour of the veto to increase housing and utility tariffs in 2006. That's the logic, because we think we need to put order in the price first. It is not necessary to hide the loss of housing and utility providers and to force the population to pay. And after that, talk about how the population pays, how it should pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u185	Please, Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u186	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! My talk is about political transvestites. Transvestite is a political term that applies to a person who has voluntarily changed his policies. sexual orientation, i.e. its gender surgically. He was a man. He became a woman. And the other way around. In the United States, there is a famous doctor who has already performed over 3,000 sex swaps! There are instances of a return to their former sex. Is that good or bad? Is that soft or not? These are complex conflicting world-based medical issues, which are the competence of professionals. For me, one thing is clear: publicly justifying such cases, all the more justifying them as normality, is contrary to human and divine morality. The term of office of the 4th Supreme Council of Ukraine ends at the fourth assembly, and journalists have already published a list of political “transvestites”, i.e. deputies who have repeatedly changed their political orientation by moving from one faction to another. Two thirds of the deputies, i.e. 300, changed their political orientation twice or more. Interestingly, they are all materially wealthy. Listen and remember! They were in two factions of 53 deputies, in threes of 47, in fours of 47, in fives of 40, in sevens of 21, in eights of 16, in nines of six and ten factions of one. Only one third of the deputies, including the faction of Communists, remained unloving, with the exception of several traitors. Among the numerous political upheavals, transvestites one former Attorney General, one former Prime Minister, one former Speaker, three well-known lawyers, one singing Rector, one academic. [[visited 10 factions]] [[at 8]] Who has chosen these political “transvestites”, in other words political bums, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? His Majesty the people. So I turn to the Ukrainian electorate, to the Ukrainian people, and I ask, who are you with, my deluded and destitute people? With the political “transvestites” of the capitalist millionaires, or the loyal ones to your last breath and the last drop of blood by the communists? People, remember, when you choose a political party in the 2006 elections, you choose a destiny. Once again, you will choose one of the capitalist parties with attractive names of delusions, or political “transvestites”, from hunger and cold under the ban of the rich, who have called themselves the national elite. You will choose a communist-lover, you will be master of your country, beautiful and rich in Ukraine. Guys, you've got a choice. Political "transvestite" capitalists on the dump of history! That's what I'm telling you, Communist Yuri Solomatin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u187	Andrew School, Curvature handed the word Tkalenko to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u188	Thank you. I would like to address, of course, the radio audience, first of all, because my fellow national MPs have become smaller than when my predecessors spoke, but the best have remained. I would like to emphasize what you know about especially the last performance, that you don't have to love more than once. Love, it's healthier than it is, once it's very little. But we have to get married once and for all, and we have to choose once and for all. It would be better here. Because when a doctor does not use medical terms, it is not always the right conclusion. I'd like to say otherwise, of course. I'd like to say that, in fact, elections, they put emphasis on, practically, any kind of political step. But you don't have to forget about the election -- about the state you live in and, after all, you want to be a deputy. Recent bills, which have been introduced and, thank God, have not passed through the Supreme Council, which have been inclined, or hastened, in paws, the movement of Ukraine to the EP or the CIS. I've already forgotten the names of all these circuits that Russia is very often modeling so as not to let its imperial ambitions go to sleep. The imperial ambitions of Russia give birth to all these CIS and EPIs. So I would like to point out that I don't want to go to those who say in their pre-election slogans that they only have to lead Ukraine in the EP. I'm saying that Ukraine can go either to Europe or elsewhere, and everybody calls this a different place. So in the end, what I'd like to say is that the main thing would be to figure out where Ukraine should go. And it's a long one. I have come to realize that Ukraine must and must move to the EU. And I'd like to see the maximum ground for that. These should be the basis for this election, and most importantly, the outcome of the election. I mean, I don't understand why we're still having this conversation about what the post-election configuration should be, what the coalition should be like, when everything is absolutely natural. There are those who formed the field and brought President Yushchenk to power, and those who stood on the other side of the barricade. Unfortunately, these barricades were. So the conversations that have been going on for so long have led me to think that some part of the orange team has already come to terms with another part. And that bothers me as a national MP, as a candidate for the national MPs, because unnatural alliances produce unnatural results, and natural alliances give expected, long-term and understandable results. Because the merger of the Party of the Regions and “Our Ukraine” will lead to such a soft, unified Bushmism. I am convinced that no one wants to do this either way, but this needs to be stated clearly and openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u189	Yes, Tkalenka. Well, we'll probably give it to anyone who wants it. Taran to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u190	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, radio listeners! Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Our faction has repeatedly claimed the need for parliamentary control over issues related to the deployment of the Black Sea Russian Federation fleet in our territory, especially since these matters directly affect our political, economic, and security interests. As noted earlier, we need to create conditions for the Black Sea fleet to be disembarked after 2017. But contrary to the basic agreements, the Black Sea fleet continues to violate the current legislation of Ukraine and international law. In particular, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation has used more than 75 land plots of more than 150 acres [150 ha] and 86 fleet infrastructure objects, other funds, on a free basis. A large part of these fleet objects are simply not needed and are not used for the purpose. Although this fact is well - known to all, appropriate authorities do not use appropriate measures to remove it or to legally rent it until now. Even after recent government decisions, the land inventory of the aquatories and properties used by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation is delayed and there is no valuation of the market value of their rentals. The so - called rent payment, the annual bill for the repayment of government debt of $97 million, does not correspond to the world’s price practice. It is known that Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance experts estimate this amount of $2.5 billion before signing the basic contracts. Such a state of affairs should force the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure parliamentary control in this important direction. What's more, he's about to begin his work as a subcommittee on the Black Sea Navy, the Interstate Commission of Yushchenko-Putin, who also needs parliamentary control. However, the draft regulation No. 7696 of June last year on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to study the status of implementation of the basic agreements under the Black Sea fleet is not included in the agenda of the ninth session. The faction of the National Movement of Ukraine once again insists on the need for urgent consideration of the matter and the establishment of an appropriate commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u191	Victor Terrence. Get ready, Missouri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, are convinced that the unification of national and democratic forces should take place before the elections. We have prepared the text of a coalition agreement, which we propose to sign for all the participants in the orange team. We are open, transparent, and want the citizens of Ukraine to know about the principles around which we propose to unite. Unify, not on post arrangements, but around plantation, program principles. We're proposing. First, members of the coalition are obliged not to enter into negotiations to form alliances with those political parties and blocs that oppose Ukraine’s national interests and, above all, with the Janukovic Party. We also suggest that members of the coalition insist that any assurances given to representatives of the former authorities regarding their integrity be lifted, including full investigation of the crimes committed by the Kuchma regime and its environment. Coalition members demand a review of Ukraine’s destructive gas contracts, demand a prosecutor’s investigation into the gas affair, and an appeal to the responsibility of officials guilty of treason and damage to the state. We believe that coalition participants should advocate tax reform and, at the same time, an effective social policy, salary increases, scholarships, pensions, savings, and, above all, coalition participants are committed to eliminating parliamentary immunity for all levels of MPs. And it's very important. I repeat, we are not in pursuit of positions. We are behind the principle that post-election government posts should be allocated exclusively according to the results obtained in the election. And the party, or party block, that gets the most votes in the election among the other coalition members, proposes its prime minister. And I would like to emphasize that the position of the next prime minister is very important. After constitutional reform, virtually all matters of domestic life in the country will be dealt with by the economy, social orientation, and virtually all, since foreign policy, such reform and defence remain behind the President and the role of the Prime Minister is extremely important, but the Prime Minister must still choose the people himself. And among the coalition’s members, the political force that will win the most votes will have the right to raise its prime minister. We believe that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, will be the guarantor of these principles. These are our principles, we unite around us, we offer to all those to whom the road of Ukraine, who stood with us on the orange Maidan, and that is the only way we can achieve unity and victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u193	Vadim Misyur, please. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u194	Vadim Missouri, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] The faction of the Social-Democratic Party addresses the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the entire Ukrainian people and the international democratic community with a warning about the possibility of large-scale falsifications during the parliamentary elections by the political forces that support today's power. [[united]] There is a great danger that this election will once again use the extremely dirty voting technology of the dead, which was actively applied by orange politicians in 2004. And there's no secret to anyone that in the last election of the President, the orange candidate won the so-called victory, mainly through voter support from those regions where emigration is the most common, particularly illegal. According to the 2001 census of the population of the 8 western areas of Ukraine, including minors, there were 9 million 552,000 people. According to minimal estimates of experts, at least 3 million voters in these regions have left the country. But in some way, the vast majority of migrants and ostracists took part in the vote in October, November, and December 2004. Although neither foreign nor customs authorities have identified any signs of mass border crossings in the direction of the Ukrainian citizens of our country for the purpose of taking part in the elections. It is well known that Leonidas’s regime, despite all his accusations of political pressure, was unable to resist this massive violation and was actually forced to avoid violent clashes with the radical supporters of Yashchenka in Galicín to close their eyes to these abuses. Moreover, at the time, the administrative resources and the appropriate opportunities for intimidation in Western areas were, in fact, long worked for Yushchenka. This was noted in particular in the findings of observers from the British Helsinki Law Protection Group. In today’s conditions, orange authorities have unlimited opportunities to reproduce these counterfeits in even greater quantities. Repeated corruption scandals, efforts, despite the people's will to involve Ukraine in NATO, illegal dismissal from positions of political revenge of thousands of competent professionals -- all of this testifies to its total cynicism, its willingness not to impose any means of imposing wrong and dangerous decisions on society. The so - called decree to ensure that fair elections are held is an unnecessary testimony to this. For example, at 1.02.2006, only 380,000 141 voters were included in the updated general list of voters in the foreign constituency. Question: "Where will almost 2.5 million citizens who have not been counted and who are abroad voted?" The faction of the SDPU(o) in these circumstances believes that the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to establish an interim investigation commission on the issue of circumstances that may lead to abuses in elections and conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u195	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u196	Vladimir Bondarenko, Reforms and Orders. Today, I would like to address the situation of the city of Kiev. Strangely enough, in the capital of Ukraine so far, there is not a single clear master plan for the development of a city that would show where it is being developed and in which direction housing arrays would be built, which sociocultural scheme would accompany them. There are no detailed micro-district planning projects in Kiev that allow an official to decide for himself what, where, how, and when? There is no estimate of land that would be made by experts independent, and so every area that is being distributed today, and such areas in the Kiyevrada meetings at each meeting are divided between 10 and 400, and then they go to a secondary market, because no one knows what, where and how to build, and how much they are worth. They are well - known for selling them, making billions of dollars in the land of Kiev. I would like to point out that recently there have been frauds in housing in Kiev. Already published lists of firms that received the land or began to build for themselves. Millions of money has been invested in people, and today they cannot be found. I warn the Kyiv builders, especially those who finance this building: beware of the frauds, for the authorities are not protecting you. If the Kyiv authorities set aside land or did not notice that it was being built there, it would be in conversation with these people. Try to pick up a shovel and kick a stick anywhere in Kiev, and three inspectors will come to you. And when a building is built on Tatar, no one knows who is building it and why it is building it. The earth was set aside, and so was the sanctification of fraud. If once the nation's deposits were collected and the leader of "No Yes" Kravchuk assured people that this money would be saved, we now know how they were preserved. Then we saw the trusts. Today, the new “Lion of Dovekov”, who sits in the Kyiv City Public Administration, handing over land areas, thus reassured people that they can give money. I think the D.A. could figure out who took out the land, who didn't notice these new buildings, who didn't study the investor situation, who didn't know that they had a penny per soul, and they weren't new trussies. I think the prosecutor's office could have figured out if she was doing her job again instead of being one of the active converts of Kyiv land into money. In particular, I've already given examples and many of them when the Attorney General's Office receives through the Kyiv City State Administration land plots, and then they turn out to be so-called investors who will then take on new and new money. Thus, recently, the Kyiv city authorities transferred an additional 35 apartments to the Attorney General’s Office, forgetting the interests of 140,000 Kiev officials. So it seems to me that on the National Security and Defence Council, we need to look at the situation with the Kyiv lands and bring the guilty to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-10-m0.u197	We're done speaking. I report that we are working on committees, factions, and groups next week, but according to the decision taken, we will hold a morning plenary meeting on Tuesday, where we will hear a series of problems related to the situation in some areas of the country. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. In the hall was I and Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and another part of the national deputies, and Loboda.
