ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, TV sets, radio audiences! It's October 3rd, Tuesday. We're starting a meeting in the morning of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:10]] A total of 301 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. It's our birthday for the nouns. I am pleased to welcome Deputy Donchick Vladimir Andriyovich to his birthday on behalf of the Supreme Council. So did Kirilczuk Eugen Ivanovich, Chechov Mikhail Vasilovich, Shribblek Anatoly Vasilovich. Let's welcome one more time, today there are 60 years of deputies until the last literal week, and now the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, 60 years old. And I'm in a little bit of a mess. Today there is another noun, the captain of the Kyiv “Dinamo”, who became the first champion of the Soviet Union 45 years ago. Victor Kanevsky is now 70 years old. We also have to say hello because this is also our common story. Today, according to the 25th article of the Rules, is the time for the presentations of authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Yes, Bondarczuk, a faction of socialists, will be followed by a party of regions, a representative. I'm here for help, to tell you that there are 415 national deputies registered in this room for this minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u2	Good afternoon. Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce our faction's statement. On September 16-17, 2006, members of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine practically worked in the Winnitz region. Deputies visited all 27 rural areas, towns of district importance, and visited more than 200 enterprises, institutions, organizations, and educational institutions in Split. There were nearly 5,000 electors on the floor. Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz met with the district’s management and economic assets. Similar working trips of factions will take place each month. Thus, it is disputed that the Ukrainian national deputies selected for party lists are losing direct contact with their constituents. According to the travels, there are general offers that have been made in the process of communicating with district leaders, cities, and districts with the electorate. They will be the basis for the practical activities of our faction. They provide for the introduction of appropriate proposals, both for Ukraine’s 2007 National Budget and for Ukraine’s State Economic and Social Development Programme for the following year. The problems of the Winnitz region are characteristic of the socio-economic development of other regions of Ukraine. These problems are exacerbated so quickly that further delays in their solutions will endanger not only the pace of economic growth but also the social stability of the state. Today, regulation of the socio-economic development of the regions should be a priority of government, becoming one of the key issues in the process of developing a new model of the socially oriented economy of Ukraine, a major factor in ensuring the territorial integrity of social and political stability in the state. The unsatisfying state of infrastructure, the ravaged production facilities, the high unemployment, especially in rural areas, the abandoned villages and villages and, as a result, the lack of a reliable normal life -- these things now characterize the socio-economic development of many regions. In recent years there has been no decline in the number of depressed areas in Ukraine. Fortunately, this is to a lesser extent in relation to the Winnitz region, where the normal interaction of executive and representative branches of power is ensured. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that in the process of working both on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007, and on the Ukrainian State Economic and Social Development Programme, the focus should be on legislative resolution of the problems of stimulating regional development, and on State incentives for the development of depressive areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u3	Thank you. The Party of the Regions has the word Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u4	Respectable compatriots. The Party of Regions believes it is its duty to express its support for the actions of the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic to overcome the difficult political and socio-economic situation in the country. Our support is not just solidarity, but, above all, the civil position of political power, which is aware of the depth and gravity of the problems facing the country today. The first problem that our coalition had achieved was budget balance, and we had a deficit of over six billion bracelets. The losses of Naftegaz Ukraine at the end of the year are expected to be more than one and a half billion dollars. The Crucifixion is on the verge of bankruptcy. The wages payable amount to more than one billion bracelets. As a result of failed foreign economic policies, Ukrainians received a rapid rise in energy prices. This has led to an increase in tariffs and, consequently, to an increase in the lives of our citizens. We do not contradict our predecessors, but at the same time we wish to point out that we knew what kind of economy we had inherited and, nevertheless, the Party of Regions, its leader, Yanukovic, had deliberately taken this step, since our main objective was to restore governance in the country's economy, to bring it out of the crisis, to ensure its sustainable development and technological reconstruction. Unfortunately, not all policies are able to rethink the situation and their role in it. Today, as before, they are choosing the simplest and most irresponsible path, the total desecration of all — their only political technology. Opponents once again offer a traditional battle arsenal: a wild mixture of lies and conjectures, general accusations of all who are not with them, the cynical use of the most painful to the State and people in the political struggle. But we would like to recall that today's opposition has its own experience of being in power that is far from positive. The people of Ukraine have already learned what an orange team is capable of and assessed. At the top of cynicism and pharisaicism, the inhumane game on people's feelings, we consider the attempt to transfer the opposition to the government of Yanukovic, a two-and-a-half-time increase in the price of energy. Even with such an insurmountable legacy, held in power for only two months, the Government of Yanukovic has made positive progress. First of all, it was possible to record the price of gas before the end of the year, and for the first time a political management model was established. We have been able to establish a parliamentary majority and form a coalition government. We have turned our face to our geopolitical partners. The Party of the Regions believes it is its duty to call upon all public politicians and political forces to support the draft law on Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2007, the Anti-crisis measures programme of the Government of Yanukovic to address the problems of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u5	Bodnar recorded from the faction of “The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. ” Who will act? Julia Timoshenko Please, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! I think today, after we've returned from work in the regions, and the week all deputies were obliged to work in the regions, you and I all know very well that every family today lives only one problem, the problem is that the pay for community services is virtually a month is equal to, or the wage of a meager, or pension. And it's just that the person who pays for these new cost of housing services is practically nothing left to live on, what to eat, what to wear. And that's why I think that the new government, the politicians who represent most of the Supreme Council, practically don't understand this problem, and that's why today they're pushing for housing-communal tariffs. I now want people who cannot find an answer to this question to hear that, last session, the Supreme Council, by a majority of two-thirds of the votes, passed the Act on the introduction of a moratorium on housing services, on tariffs. In fact, if Alexander Frost had passed this law on to the President on time, immediately, as defined by law, there would be no spontaneous tariff rise today. Alexander Moroz deliberately made a deal with Yanukovic and blocked this adopted law and did not pass it on to the President. This means that all the tariff increases that are taking place today take place, including the fact that Frost and Yanukovich have artificially blocked the signing of this law. But I know that a lot of people who work in the residential sector think that tariff increases are needed because the price of gas has gone up. And I would like to explain, however, firstly, the price of gas has increased because in 2004 Janukovic and Kuchma made a deal with Rosukrenerego, and it has been since 2004 that a corrupt criminal model of gas price rise has begun. As we could have done, we tried to destroy it. But we didn't let it happen. And now, Alexander Alexander, I warn you. If you don't sign and send a letter to the President about the moratorium on residential services, our faction will be serious enough to use the means to prevent you from violating the Constitution and destroying the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u7	Polynov. You're going to perform, aren't you? Please. Kucherenko is speaking from “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u8	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs! Dear listeners. Indeed, the problem that we are discussing today, which has just occurred in the speech of the leader of the opposition force of the BUT, today is the number one issue in the state. And the pain is, unfortunately, that the anti-crisis coalition is actually trying to make a crisis in a situation that should have been resolved first by essentially depoliticized economic measures. The official statement “Our Ukraine” will be published and is based on what we believe is a law adopted, that it should be addressed to the President of Ukraine. And this is the President's decision to do with this law. But we would like to draw your attention, first of all, to yours, Alexander Alexandrovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, to the situation in which this decision was made. You and I have no right to be funny. But when we make such decisions, unfortunately you and I will discredit the Supreme Council. And then you don't have to be interested in why ratings, social surveys, politicians and prostitutes take the last level in the community at a level of trust. We can't understand how most of the Supreme Council voted in favour of this law, which today claims to rule the state under new conditions, under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic. We can't understand the logic of the committee manager from local self-government, because this decision literally undermines this local self-government. We can't understand the logic of the Head of the Budget Committee, because the cost of this question is 10 billion dollars. We can't understand the logic of the Head of the Legal Committee, who can't help but know that it's an anti-constitutional law. We will support the President in this situation to make a decision and to believe that he can defend all citizens today to protect the consumers of the monopolies that are actually stifling Ukraine's economy today. But we would like to offer respectable colleagues a constructive solution to this situation. I'd like to point out to you that we don't have the authority to do this with you today. You and I, as members of the Supreme Council, there's only one thing left: whether to take such popular decisions and moratoriums, or to set up commissions of inquiry that will never turn to anything. All government administrations today are concentrated in government. So I invite you, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, to take immediate action to resolve this problem with legislation and to offer a constructive solution to this very and very painful issue for the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u9	From the Communists comes Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. On Saturday, I had the opportunity and was on Winnitzkin, meeting with experts in the sugar industry. The condition of the beet plantations is such that it inspires hope of getting in Ukraine is not a bad threat. But the crisis continues and is very serious. I'd like to share some observations that I think we need to know and take concrete action here in the Supreme Council. First. The agony is not overcome because the management system has been destroyed. There was the State Committee, which is now eliminated, and the department in Minsk is also eliminated. As a result, the seed has been destroyed — the foundation and the production and production of sugar. Science barely survives, even the Sugar Institute evicted from its premises, the machinery complex for sugar factories is virtually out of operation, the decommissioning of sugar plants continues, and the lost market for sugar in Russia, and the intervention of cane sugar in Ukraine is intensifying. Ukraine’s storm field has declined more than twice. The public’s view of the excess capacity of sugar factories is persistent. Sadly, this is promoted by people who hold high positions in the state. To eliminate these and other factors that destroy the sector, a beetroot-sugar complex requires annual and consistent state-owned technical and financial support. The Communist faction has made specific proposals to the 2007 budget, but today I propose, at least, to consider and describe, as first priority, the measures. First. The Supreme Council will decide to defeat the President's veto on the Act on the Prohibition of the Dismantling of Sugar Plants. Once this ban is lifted, the six factories are dismantled again in the area. And I would like to inform you, my respectable comrades, my fellow national MPs, about the savagery of politics that takes place in Ukraine during the years of independence. During the years of independence in Ukraine, more than twice as many sugar factories were destroyed in Winnickin than the fascists in the years of occupation. This is the answer to the state’s policy in this area. That each sugar plant provides agricultural jobs for an average of 5,000 people, in the Winnitz area it is an additional 35,000 jobs, plus 60,000 jobs for non-working factories, only 95,000. It's a real job-increasing program. Next. To implement the March 3 decree, we have to stop today bringing sugar-sores from the cane and not do today what the WTO requires of us, but do everything we can to support our sugar producers. Continue negotiations with the Russian Federation and restore the sugar market. And the last. We suggest that we start distributing a sugar quota in three ways: internal consumption, standard production and export. So we're going to support our own manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u11	Thank you for speaking to all the factions. Since the question addressed me, my separate position on the signing of the draft law, I am obliged to answer the charges here. I want to say that the moratorium on price increases and tariffs was adopted, not by a vote last week, but by the beginning of January of this year. And this law was given to the President's veto. But prices and tariffs were raised by the decision of the previous Cabinet of Ministers, not by the efforts of Frost, as was claimed here, first. We put to the vote the draft law on moratorium, the President's veto, the veto. Although there are two conclusions of the Constitutional Court that such a decision is unconstitutional, the Supreme Council has no right to consider them. Therefore, on the basis of the letters, the references made by the professional committees, which came literally immediately after the vote on the need for a return to this question for the analogy that we had already applied here quite recently when we decided to create a temporary special commission to consider the issue of prices and tariffs, and based on the 125th article of the Rules, did not sign this law, referring to the Supreme Council's ruling on additional arguments. Tomorrow is the day-to-day inclusion of the issue of information to a special committee of parliament that is studying the question of prices and tariffs, information from the Cabinet of Ministers about what they are doing not to talk about the moratorium, not about political sentiments on this issue, but about how to lower prices and tariffs, and what the government is proposing especially about gas and electricity prices, because, in fact, the electorate needs not a political discussion on this issue, but a real price reduction, coming out of the state's capabilities. It is also proposed that two bills be adopted to discuss the stabilisation fund for the accumulation of Ukrainian gas resources in order to contain prices and tariffs and other legislative acts, so tomorrow the issue will be addressed by the Supreme Council. I have no right or right to take this mission. The factions two are now asking for breaks in order to find out the circumstances, I take it. I'm going to say that I'm not going to sign this law anyway. And for that reason, I had a communication with the President. As long as the Supreme Council is not determined in accordance with the Rules, we will be considering this issue tomorrow, which is why the issue is completely exhausted. And I repeat: Ukrainian citizens need guarantees that they can meet the needs of utilities, prices and tariffs, and that the government in this regard should take steps that are sufficient to protect people, rather than speculative political around the situation. This is what I have to say because the charges went directly to my address. Please, do you insist on taking a break? You insist. There are two factions: “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” – relative to a break for half an hour. There's a break for half an hour. The meeting will continue at 11 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? First of all, I apologize for the delay. We had, in my opinion, such a constructive discussion with representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko faction. Commenting on the reasons and conclusions of the question under discussion, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, a representative of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u13	Alexander Turchinov, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council has decided to defeat the President's veto for the Law on the Moratorium for the Promotion of Municipal Services. A total of 340 national deputies voted in favour. It was the only right, right decision, because every conscious politician knows and understands: the population can't pay three times what it's paying now. And that's why the Supreme Council made the right decision, I repeat. At the same time, today the head of the Supreme Council refuses to sign the Law, more faithfully, to sign it to the President. The president is willing to carry out his duties and sign this Law and allow the government not to hide behind tales of who is to blame, who is not to blame for raising tariffs, but to fulfill its responsibilities both as voters and as political, as well as as as government, and to provide the population with acceptable prices for municipal services. That's why the faction of Yulia Timoshenko requires Alexander Moroz to carry out his duties without being a representative of Yanukovic, who was afraid of the situation, in the Supreme Council, but to be the head of the Supreme Council and to work as the Supreme Council decides. With regard to our negotiations with Alexander Moroz, he gave no argument as to why he did not sign this Law and send it to the President. All references on the 48th, on the 129th article of the Rules do not match the reality. Because, first of all, there was a deadline for an indictment by the deputies of this decision, and second of all, there was no remark at the time of this decision in the room. This confirms the stenogram. And the following, dear colleagues. We can make a very serious and negative precedent with you when, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, there may be no signature of any law, including the one voted by the constitutional majority of parliament, and over 300 national MPs. That is why the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko requires the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out his duties, not to be a representative of the government in Parliament, but to be the speaker of our Parliament. And, dear fellows, we ask you to sign the papers peacefully, weighed down by tomorrow and send the President to sign the papers. If this is not done, we will act more actively. Because we are not left to work in the constitutional plane, we are not left to serve our duties as national deputies. And I'm asking representatives of the so-called anti-crisis coalition. You've already voted. Have the dignity to carry out your duties before our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u15	Dear friends, the honourable chairman. I would like to express the position of “Our Ukraine” on the solution to the problem that has unfortunately met both Ukraine and you today. Once again, I want to emphasize that we need to look at the root of the problem first. It is because the state, without exception all governments, did not deal with the Supreme Council, by the way, or previous calls, did not, in principle, address the State's influence on natural monopolies. And once again, it's about the oil and gas industry, the energy industry, the heating supply, the transport, the connection. That is why today there are attempts to take advantage of this process and instead of an economic professional discussion, really take political steps. It's about political evaluation. We believe that this law has been passed today, and it must be addressed to the President of Ukraine, and the President of Ukraine will then make the appropriate decision, certainly taking into account the opinion of both the government and the Supreme Council, and the opinion of the citizens. But we would like to propose and remind that today, and the Supreme Council, firstly, a registered draft of a temporary special decision, I would like to emphasize, not an investigative committee, but a special commission, because no investigative commission, we are convinced, is it anything, its conclusions will not lead to anything. So this is the creation of this temporary special commission, which was made up of members of the profile committees, representatives of the factions and could do it over a period of time, it's about a month or two, and it's about proposing to the Supreme Council, first of all, the concept of state regulation of natural monopolies, primarily energy and housing. Of course, the influence of the Supreme Council on this state regulation should be greatly increased. Because this time I want to remind you, today the government regulates natural monopolies, NAK Naftogaz, energy companies. Today, local self-government regulates housing, heat and water supply. It is not possible to manage and manage these monopolies at the same time and, on the other hand, to ensure a truly economically sound regulatory process and, above all, to protect the rights of consumers. That's why we're proposing to go back to this draft decision and make this special interim commission that will offer us an effective solution to this problem. Secondly, we are convinced that without the creation of an independent regulator, without granting independent status to the National Energy Regulatory Commission, we will never get out of this impasse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u16	Thank you for coming from both factions who took a break, although the next time you have to consider what is expected to be three minutes for the announcement of two, not two factions. But that's the detail. Since the charges were made, it was called my last name, I'll just say it briefly. I understand perfectly what this is about and people are going through, waiting for the effect of the Supreme Council on the solution of the problem that concerns them, not in terms of adoption or non-admission of the law, but in terms of whether there will be cheaper gas and electricity or not. But I acted absolutely in accordance with the Rules, and I understand it, it was to ask the MPs to violate a number of procedural rules on the adoption of this law. And in accordance with the Rules, I asked the profile committee to draw the right conclusions. The committee will hold a meeting, sorry, on this point and draw conclusions, as he will say to sign, everything was procedurally correct, I will sign. If he says there's been a violation, then the Supreme Council will decide, it'll be tomorrow. And either way, whether it's the adoption of the law a week ago, or the adoption of it two days later, because the President can determine immediately on this point, that doesn't change the essence of the question. So I'm grateful to the MPs who took the break and the discussion, in my opinion, brought us closer to understanding the truth in that sense, and tomorrow we're going to have a dot on that problem. I now propose to consider the issue that is foreseen in the order of the day as the Draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for the following year. And on this point, the report is made by the Minister of Economy, Makuha Vladimir Alexiyyovich. Here is the complete procedure, 15 minutes for the report, 15 minutes for the questions, for the answers. The 10-minute co-report that the head of the profile committee will do, then the discussion will be two and a half hours under the Rules, but I'd like to limit myself to two hours, because the question is, of course, we're looking at for the first time in this version of the draft state programme. However, it is necessary to save time, especially since we turned it into a discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Your opinion is proposed for the 2007 project of Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme. The project has been drafted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the provisions of the Universities of National Unity, the main directions of the Ukrainian budgetary policy for 2007, the forecasts of Ukraine's economic and social development for 2007. It should be noted that this document is an integral part. The programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for 2007-12 years, which is currently being developed by the Government of Ukraine, and this document details the programme's 2007 tasks. The 2007 State Programme should provide a solution to a range of systemic problems. And some of them are represented on this slide. And while solving each of these is an important task for the government, I want to draw your attention to the low competitiveness of the national economy. Because of the slow pace of structural reforms, the substantial increase in energy resources, the inefficient use of social resources, the decline in the competitiveness of our economy has already affected the dynamics of economic development. Another problem is the formation of a consumer development model against the backdrop of slow investment. Lack of incentives for investment activity and limited investment capacity of enterprises, progressive aging of core funds. And today I can emphasize that the wearout of the core industrial funds is 53.3 percent. Including the weariness of metallurgy enterprises and metal processing, nearly 70 percent, of mining. energy materials – almost 70 percent, chemical and oil industries – almost 70 percent. To solve these and other problems, the State Programme has set a number of goals for further development. That is, the first and highest priority objective of the government is to provide positive structural shifts on an innovative basis, to stimulate the creation of new knowledge. I want to point out that Ukraine has virtually exhausted the sources of intensive growth. Promoting innovation, creating technology transfer institutions and enabling conditions for obtaining new knowledge should be the basis for economic development for the future. In this direction, we anticipate the development of effective mechanisms to stimulate the flow of private investment resources and innovation enterprises and the implementation of infrastructure projects, including through the implementation of such a mechanism as a public-private partnership mechanism. The draft law on this subject is already being prepared by the government, and in the near future we hope to present it for your consideration. In addition, it is important to implement technology parks, technopolises, venture companies. At the same time, we plan to create conditions for the efficient use of available public funds by optimizing national target programmes, improving the base of the public procurement system. The goal of the friend. The creation of favourable conditions for a major increase in investment flows to Ukraine, the development of corporate governance, the stock market, the use of population funds as a source of investment, property protection, the effective management of state ownership. All of this should be supported by the day - to - day work of the central executive authorities. Target three. Developing a new quality of social services. Structural reforms in the areas of services to the population, changes in the attitude of the citizen government, broad administrative reform will allow change in the substance of reforms, ensure that they are closer to each citizen. Next slide. Raising the welfare of citizens and overcoming poverty is one of the priorities of government policy. These are particularly important conditions for increasing the income gap of Ukrainians, stopping middle-class formation. So in this direction, we're going to see jobs being intensified to create new jobs, to ensure that real incomes are raised, to improve social and pension insurance, to provide the necessary support to the most vulnerable populations. The fifth goal. Developing a positive external trade balance. The change in trend in recent years, when the external trade balance balance has become negative, has led to a significant decline in the overall rate of growth in the national economy and a decrease in the national bank's foreign reserves. The engagement of all mechanisms to promote Ukrainian producers is the main task of the foreign economic policy of our government, both in the East and in the West. In particular, we anticipate the development of State support mechanisms for Ukrainian exports, the strengthening of the State's participation in providing the necessary support to Ukrainian producers in the course of anti-dumping investigations against them, the provision of favourable conditions for investment from EU member countries, the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union, and within a single economic space, and the removal of restrictive measures by the Russian Federation on imports of Ukrainian products. Sixth objective. Creating conditions for accelerated small and medium-sized business development, reducing the cost of entrepreneurship. In this direction, in 2007, we are planning to complete the development of a regulatory framework for small business development that will allow it to grow steadily and increase the contribution of the creation of new jobs and the goal of creating a middle class. I would like to emphasize that the innovation of this program is a commitment to each goal of priorities and criteria of achievement. The measures, mechanisms and tools to ensure the implementation of the national programme are listed in Part Two, Part Six of the programme. That is, part two is state support in the fields and economics. This part contains a detailed description of the tasks and measures of economic policy in 34 types and areas of activity that specify the tasks of the national programme. The special feature of this section is the structure of its departments. Each unit is made up of basic qualities that characterize the present state of the field or sphere of activity. The other one. The main problems that are now most important for this type of activity, the 2007 major development objective, the 2007 major tasks and actions of public policy, which are both mechanisms and performers and deadlines. And the last point. This is the resource of every program. This is what we attach special importance to. The third part presents the economic and social development balance of Ukraine for 2007. Main product balance is an active tool for market regulation and the task of providing the population with the most important food. The absence of a gas balance for 2006 is an example of negligence in balancing. The fourth section contains a list of state-of-the-art targeted programmes and programmes for the development of individual regions, economics and social spheres, which are planned to be implemented in 2007 using state budget funds. For the next year, we plan to include in this list 48 national target programmes and 39 development programmes. I want to say that this is, of course, an extremely large number of programs, and we need to think about optimizing the composition and number of such programs in order to provide, of course, funding for all the measures that these programs provide for. But to date, the overall financial performance of these programmes is in line with the 2007 State Budget Project. The fifth section presents indicators and projections for regional development. The main objective of regional policy in 2007 is to establish a new relationship between the centre and the regions with a view to concentrating on efforts and resources to address the problems of regional development. An analysis of each region and an assessment of its potential is presented in accordance with the stated objective in this part of the national program. Part six of the plan for cooperation with international financial and organizational organizations for 2007. The main objective of the plan is to improve the efficiency of the use of funds from international financial organisations in the implementation of Ukraine's economic and social development projects. This part of the government programme sets out the goals and orientations of Ukraine’s cooperation with the IMF for 2007. The assistance provided by international financial institutions in the form of loans used to implement projects is a practical way to support Ukraine's economic reform course. The financial security of the program. It will be made at the expense of its own funds, investors with international technical assistance, international financial organizations, state and local budgets. Under the state programme, the results will be as follows: real GDP will be at least 6.5 percent, real capital growth will be 11.9 percent, real wage growth will be 7.9 percent and moderate inflation will be maintained to 7.5 percent. Since the state programme is seen as part of the 2007-2011 Cabinet of Ministers programme, it is very important that it be implemented as a reliable basis for short-term reform. At the first stage of the government's programme of activities and overcoming corruption in Ukrainian society, namely, the following reforms: administrative reform, tax reform, regulatory reform, judicial reform and land reform. In view of the need to address these challenges, the relevance of these tasks, I ask for the full approval of the 2007 draft of the State Economic and Social Development Programme. Thank you for your attention. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u18	The question to the reporter seems to be there. I'm asking you to sign up. Matthew. After him Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Peter Cybenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u20	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u21	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Your Honor, I have two questions for you. At least I would like to welcome the government's efforts to form a budget, to emphasize the innovative nature of economic development, but in this context, I would like to ask you what is the most vivid part of this program: the innovation component of this program? And the second question, to be precise, is replication. You have a link that the document is based on the Universal of National Unity. So this is what: the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine? What is the basis for today’s reference to this document, which at least does not correspond to, for example, the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. The first question is about an innovative ingredient. Well, I want to say that, as I said today, Ukraine's economy has exhausted the sources of intense growth. And to increase the competitiveness of our nation is possible only by one way -- through the exit to post-industrial trends. And that's why we're also preparing an action programme for 2007-2011 that will lay the groundwork for creating such an economy, a post-industrial economy, a knowledge economy, and 2007, this is the year of stability, where we're going to bring our nation out for the corresponding growth trends. How do we propose to do so? First of all, we're going to be working today on the technology transfer of the science and technology sector into industry, and it's very important for us to develop methods that allow us to engage in the development of high-tech enterprises, high-tech manufacturing of private investors. We will also intensify the work on major infrastructure projects, in this context we anticipate the need for the introduction of public private partnership mechanisms. Where the State’s participation is allowed by one dollar, or one bracelet of State participation allows it to enter into three, five bracelets, or dollars of private investment. This experience exists in the world, and that is the kind of experience we want to take advantage of. As for the reasons for inclusion, the preparation of the Universal-based activity programme. I want to point out that the Universal is a document that defines the acceptance of the goals, the national objectives of our nation, which has been signed, practically, by all, practically, all the political forces of Ukraine. Therefore, we must take into account the position of the main political forces and our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u23	Vladimir Alexiyovich, I ask you to give me a shorter answer, because there are many who want to clarify something for themselves. Chečetov Mikhailo Vasilovich, followed by Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u24	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, submitted two strategic papers: an economic and social development programme along with a budget, where the program is part of the government programme and, indeed, it is addressed tomorrow. It aims to bring the economy out into the path of sustained economic growth and the transition to an investment and innovation model. There's a lot of money here. I have a question: you said at the end, you said the source. Which means that the program will be executed. To what extent will all sources be involved in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. If we're talking about sources. First, if we're talking about an investment component, this year we're predicting a change in macroeconomic proportions that will allow us to reduce consumption and increase the level of accumulation in the State Budget. At the same time, about 50 percent will increase the investment component, which will be 26.8 billion dollars. These figures are given in the State Budget project. In addition, as I said before, we will invest private investors' costs through public private partnership mechanisms, through mechanisms to involve them in the use of state targeted programs, as well as the costs of international financial organizations. And about this, I was recently in Singapore at the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and that's where a whole series of negotiations were held with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, and the willingness to support major infrastructure projects in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u26	The raven. Behind him is Castle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u27	Respectable reporter. You recorded a violation in priority number two, i.e. building the transit capacity of the Power. It's really a very important priority. But for some reason, at the level of international transport corridors, you're one of the main transport corridors, which is the seventh, for some reason forgotten. The third, the fifth, the ninth, there is no seventh. This is the corridor that is the Danube, the corridor that we are talking about integration into Europe. And hence the financing of this corridor. The financing of the corridor does not coincide slightly with the budget. Therefore, the construction of a new fleet for UDP, the Danube Black Sea Canal and so on. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. In principle, you answered that question in a sense. That is, we are talking about the Danube-Black Sea channel. Building this channel for us is one of the priorities, without which, you're absolutely right, the seventh corridor we're just not going to build. That's why it's supposed to be, if we have to specify the amount of funding, let's go into further work and we can deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u29	Castle. After him, Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u30	Alexandre, Alexandrovich, please give the floor to the national deputy of Sivolski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u31	Mikola Ivanovich, please, Sivuliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, well, for the first time there is a document that shows that the government lives a little bit in a different world than all citizens. I'd like to know how you plan to have inflation at 7 and a half percent when prices on utility bills go up 3, 3 and a half times. What makes you think there's going to be deflation, there's going to be price cuts? Please name specific positions that will be cheaper to buy the population next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u33	So what we're talking about is that we have inflation at 7 and a half percent per year. We're really predicting that, let's say the price rise of manufacturers is going to be 14%. As far as it goes, but about the same ratio exists today. So we think that over this time the structure of production will not change to such an extent that this ratio somehow changes dramatically. Now we have 3 and a half percent of the inflation and 8 percent of the price increase of the producers. As far as tariffs are concerned. It's a very painful question. And this is the discussion that was just, it confirms it. But today the government is working and, I think, it's time for this to take a closer look at tariff policy. In this context, we believe that there is a need not to increase, increase or lower tariffs in general, but to optimize them. And it's about, first of all, opting out a whole chain of intermediaries on this network that provides services to the community and other services to the population. In addition, we believe that the issue of gas supply needs to be optimized from the gas producers that are being produced in Ukraine. There are also several other approaches that will allow us not to raise the tariffs to the same size as the price of gas rises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u34	Please, Filindash, follow him, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. Vladimir Alexiyovich! The faction stands ready to participate in the work of this program because we feel that some of its positions cannot be accepted. In particular, I have such questions. First. Why 26 priorities in this program? And don't you think it's too much? Well, you can't concentrate on the state's efforts when there are 26 priorities, it's already cooled down. The other one. On the ground. If there is no legislation that regulates these matters of land relations, the transformation of agricultural land into a commodity can place the final cross in the countryside. Third. Medically. The fifth priority is to initiate changes to the article of the Constitution, which guarantees free medicine and the possibility of reducing medical facilities. We don't understand what you're suggesting. Take a look at this article and cut down medical institutions or something else? And the last. Disposal of the State Committee on Forestry when all the forests in Ukraine are state-owned and do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u36	Thank you. As far as the number of priorities is concerned. We basically wanted to minimize them as much as possible, you're absolutely right to have some growth points that would affect economic development. There was some compromise between desires and possibilities. And if we start working on this issue with you, you'll see that these priorities may not be 26, or even more. So now I can't tell you how many we're going to stop at if we can reduce them with you, we're just going to be happy. As far as land relations are concerned. Earthly relations are indeed an extremely difficult problem. And in my opinion, to approach the land market without creating a cadastre, without creating mechanisms for determining ownership to land, would be a little bit of a risky step. So in this context, I think it's very important to contribute and complete a project that's being implemented with the World Bank on land cadastre. I think it's a major road on the road to creating a land market in Ukraine. Medicine. Medicine, well, we all know what free medicine is. And to this day continue to support a situation where doctors pretend they're treating us and the sick make the appearance that they've been cured, well, it's no longer possible to keep it that way. It seems to me that today we still have to move to the mainstream of the medical sector of all countries of the world -- insurance medicine. And that's what we're going to offer in our program. And I don't know what we're going to do in 2007, but by 2012, I think that the health insurance system should be created in Ukraine. Well, it's about the State Committee. Let's, let's just work this out with you. I'm not ready right now. Yeah, yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u37	Vladimir Alexiyovich, please answer the question more specifically. It was about upholding the rules of the Constitution. You can't get ironed here. If anyone accepts medicine or something, it's a matter of doing so. And it's written in the Constitution. How close it is to this standard. Chubarov asks. He's got Ribhub behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u38	As I analyzed the project, I did not find any position, no figure related to the need to implement the resettlement program and the placement of Crimean Tatars and all other nationalities to return to Ukraine, and their integration into Ukrainian society until 2010. This program, as you know, was recently approved by the government -- in May of this year. There are no programs in that project that you're about to present to us! I've found almost. for a program like the state research program in Antarctica. De Antarctica, where Crimea and its problems are where our government is. Recently, a week ago, there was a meeting of the PNB, and I think maybe after that we'd respond? No, there is no reaction. Now I'm a little bit aware, this year, 75 million were planned for this program, 15 have already been taken to the fourth quarter. For the next year, you plan only 44, even though the program says 82 million dollars. I just want to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. As for the Crimean population resettlement programme, here we have proposals to have a comprehensive socio-economic programme for the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And now this. What is being done, all the outreach and branch programs are being merged into one big program. Then it creates an opportunity for us to understand more clearly the real situation on the peninsula and to have greater flexibility in terms of financial resources. I think this approach is justified. If you have that sense of caution, let's do it with you as part of the committee and faction work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u40	Refate Abdurahmanovich, note that the document submitted on September 15th, before the PNDP meeting, could not take these conclusions into account. Please, Ribhub, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Alexiovich! The Cabinet of Ministers handed over the program at the right time. I personally read it well, examined it, and, of course, it deserves to be accepted as a basis. It's definitely, I say it boldly and directly. And there's a lot of questions, because it's specific. Two questions. First. Energy and energy conservation. Throughout Europe, millions of tons of biodegradable fuel have been released, and by 2012, 80 percent of Americans are expected to release energy from biofuels. And we wrote in a foggy and scary way in energy conservation: there to develop alternatives and so on. Why is there no energy supply in the software? That's the first one. And the second. The issue of environmental protection. Whether it was an accident or not, they wrote that the protection of the environment was forest and water. So we have 41 million. hectares of the plant world, which gives photosynthesis more than the forest. Why did they write down the reform? Where there's administrative reform, let's move it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. As far as energy supply is concerned. You have raised an extremely important and relevant subject. Why is this topic so relevant in Europe, for example? It's very simple. Since there is a perfectly legal requirement, it is in European legislation that up to five percent of diesel fuel should be biodiesel. If we adopt such a law, these business projects, which are now being implemented on the cultivation of rape and other crops and on the sale of biodiesel to other countries, can be reoriented into Ukraine. But this requires a legislative decision, because otherwise we can talk for a very long time about what it takes, what's effective, what's relevant, but until there's a legislative requirement for a certain percentage of biofuels, we're not going to have anything. As far as the environment is concerned. We've drawn attention to the most painful question -- the quality of drinking water. This is a question for all regions. And that's why, among other environmental problems that we have a huge amount of, but we have a solid waste management program and others. So we're giving very important attention to environmental issues. As far as forestry is concerned, come on, once again, I'm offering this to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He's got a word, yeah. After the break will be performed by Plaštinsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich with a co-report, please. There's a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u44	Platinum, committee report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to point out that since Ukraine's acquisition of independence and to this day no law of Ukraine on the State Economic and Social Development Programme has been approved by the Supreme Council, so there have been no reports of their implementation. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include the approval of state-wide economic, scientific and technical, social, national and cultural development programmes, environmental protection. Thus, we have the opportunity for the first time in the history of independence to approve Ukraine's economic and social development programme for the next year, to observe and monitor its implementation. Now essentially the bill. The Committee on Economic Policy has carried out a thorough analysis of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 in the following directions: compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes; compliance with the main position of the Universal National Unity, the President of Ukraine's 2007 Communication to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's Internal and External Status in 2005; Ukraine's Fundamentals of National Security Act; Ukraine's main policy orientations for Ukraine's budgetary policy; the interaction of the Programme with the 2007 National Budget project; compliance with the Programme's main requirements for programming; and the correctness of the country's social and economic development analysis; and the specificity of the defined risks and targets. The project's authors have fully complied with the requirements of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes on the timing and structure of the Programme, the system of economic and social development forecasting and programming documents. It is necessary to specify the clarity and compliance of the defined default structure in all sections. The programme includes a socio-economic analysis in 2005-2006 and a description of the main problems of economic and social development, a system of action for the implementation of State socio-economic policies, key macroeconomic indicators, a list of state-owned target programmes and individual regional development programmes that are planned to be implemented in 2007 using the funds of the state budget of Ukraine. In addition, we do not think that other requirements for software management are being met. This is primarily about clearly selecting the stages of implementation of the program, defining and justifying the multiple parameters of intermediate and final results, which will enable monitoring of its implementation. While appreciating the overall positive draft of Ukraine's 2007 State Economic and Social Development Programme, some problems and shortcomings need to be noted. For example, in the chapter: Tax fiscal policy, the government defines the main objective for 2007 of creating a more efficient and rational tax system that provides favourable conditions for business management, investment, consumer demand growth in the internal market, while at the same time increasing aggregate tax revenues to the budgets of all levels and held trust funds. However, there are proposals for changes in the structure of the tax system and for the development of a draft tax code for Ukraine, as the development of the tax code has been on the agenda for many years, and the result is, unfortunately, not. In the chapter on housing reform and development, the government acknowledges that today the financial and economic situation of residential enterprises remains complex and is characterized by a sharp increase in damage, which in January-June of this year is almost 2.2 times higher than in the corresponding period of last year. Debt from housing services in September 2006 amounts to more than six billion dollars. So one of the priority problems that need to be addressed urgently is the improvement of the system of government regulation of natural monopolies in residential services markets, the creation of conditions for technical resupply of human life-support facilities. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure the optimum level of housing and utilities tariffs acceptable to most Ukrainian citizens. One of the main problems in price and tariff policy is that the government calls the country's considerable dependence on imported energy, which is constantly rising prices that increase the risk of inflation being imported. However, among the main tasks and actions for 2007 we do not see what measures the government is planning to minimize the problem. Among the tasks and actions of public policy for 2007 in the section “People's Revenue and Wages” would like to see a specific task of paying off the valueless savings of citizens. In the area of social insurance, the government plans to implement a single social contribution. However, it is not clear whether its rate will be reduced and whether it will reduce the fiscal burden on the economy of the State. In our view, the measures envisaged in the section “Protection of Health” to prevent the outflow of qualified professionals from public and municipal health institutions to commercial structures are insufficient. It is worth supporting the government's efforts to adapt Ukraine's higher education to European standards, while preserving the best acquisitions of national education. [[Bologna Process]] Among the positive developments in this chapter are the further introduction of new information technologies into the learning process, computerization of schools and vocational and technical institutions, the expansion of the lists of subjects and the coverage of graduates of public education institutions by external independent evaluation in 2007. Other sections of humanitarian and social policy are important, but I think it's better to let colleagues from other committees speak out of these issues. At the meeting of the Committee on 20 September this year, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's 2007 State Economic and Social Development Programme. In this regard, I appeal to all committees, national deputies of Ukraine, to support the committee’s decision and to make my conclusions and suggestions. And after the adoption of the Ukrainian State Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 as a basis, our committee, as a profile, will take them into account when preparing the draft law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Yeah, five minutes. Slippery, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u47	I give the word to Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u48	Microphone, please Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u49	Dear reporter, do you think the economic and social development programme, which is passed on in the budget package, will be funded sufficiently by the State budget and by other sources or possible funding problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u50	Thank you for asking, Mikhail Vasilovich. I think that today we are making a very balanced and, I'm not afraid of exaggeration, a historic decision on the adoption of the State's economic and social development programme for 2007 for the first time in years of independence, and I think it should be the main document for the implementation of the budget. The budget should be carried out as an investigation into the implementation of the program. So we're going to make all the decisions on the committee today, all the suggestions, we're going to work them out. To date, I believe that the program needs improvement, needs more balanced solutions, needs to defer some issues, needs to be written off quarterly, reports to the Economic Policy Committee once a quarter and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine once a session. And then it's going to be urgent, it's going to be state-wide, it's going to be a major budget for the execution of this program. To date, full funding and provision are planned as a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” Dear reporter, you're aspiring us to support this program called the Economic Development Program of the country. At the same time, the content of the program contradicts its name. In particular, the section “Transport and Road Complex” provides for an increase of only 2 per cent for 2007 in freight transport, including rail transport, by 1 per cent. This is at a time when the volume of passenger transport by all modes of transport increased by 3.3 percent in 2005 and the fleet by more than 8 percent. So what's this development in 2007, when you're making 2007 numbers smaller than in 2005 and 2004? What kind of development are you up against here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u53	Dear Oleg Lazko! I'm not aging, the committee's got nothing on the program, the committee's got a program from the government. And I said in the report that she needs work. The important question that you asked will be found in the second reading committee, and I think you need to agree here, you need to increase the percentage of transportation, and the productivity of transportation, and so on. We're waiting for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u54	Sulkowski asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u55	I have questions to both speakers, both to the minister and to the committee head. Please tell me how it may be that I have been particularly surprised by the decisions made in the section “Protection of the environment”. Should the first step in this chapter be to eliminate the three committees responsible for forest management, water and land resources? Is this the most important thing in ecology? Perhaps the only thing left in the state of government and state ownership is forest management. It's not hard to figure out what it's for. Therefore, I propose that this proposal for the elimination of the State-level programme in section 2.3.2. of the first and second paragraphs of the “Basic tasks and measures of public policy for 2007” be deleted as unthinkable and potentially harmful both for the environment and for the people. We've had a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u56	Paul Gnatovich, you could have said in the discussion. It's the right thing to think about. But that's not a question. That's why Vladimir Mikhailovich won't answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u57	No, why, Alexander Alexandrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u58	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u59	I would like to tell the honourable Paul Gnatovich that yes, that is the problem. The committee already has several letters from professional departments. And that's going to be considered. And it's not just that. I guarantee you that by the second reading, the program will be, well, revised, completed, processed. And maybe someone doesn't recognize her from the people who prepared her. But it will be as your suggestions will be accepted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u60	Let's take that into account. You guys take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u62	I'd like to propose to the deputies right away. Obviously, after we have discussed and taken it or not, and most likely we should base this document, then proposals such as Paul Gnatovic and others need to be written as a commission to be provided for in the content of the document, so that we really have forestry, not timber production. Because then it'll be too late to say anything when the woods are gone. Disposal of the Forest Department can lead to this. We need to be careful, of course. But in the meantime, a recording of the performance is being announced. From the faction, please sign in. Now I'm asking the committees. It's from the deputies, it's from the committees. Writing done. Sulkowski, please, from the Party of the Regions. That's what the record shows. We should have an hour for the performance. I'd like to predict it to the technical services, an hour to discuss it. Matthew will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u63	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, once again I call attention to both the minister and the head of the committee. We have just what is happening here in the session room a lot of questions, misunderstandings, and I think that when there's a project registered in the Supreme Council today, 2176, which is also approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decision of 13.09. This year’s issue of No. 1316. I think that the government wants reforms, if any, so that these reforms, which we have already seen in Ukraine many times, are not in favour of Ukraine. I think that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the ministers all want to do today's ministries and offices so that they don't harm Ukraine. But when I analyzed the state of affairs, the question was, really, that I was just asking questions, Alexander Alexandrovich, just because I might not be able to speak. But once again, I'm drawing the attention of the Minister of Economics. And the head of the committee here is present. That's how we ask questions, everyone responds, that it can be very and very hurtful if the State Forestry Committee of Ukraine is reorganized and the relevant government body of the Government of the Ministry of Nature is formed. So, honourable national MPs, I have such an offer that these really points are going to be calculated today. I propose that this proposal for the elimination of Derkomlisgosp in sections 2.3. and 2 of the first and second paragraphs of the Basics and State Policy for the following year should be deleted. And to discuss again at the level of the Supreme Council committees on these issues, and only after a more thorough examination has been carried out will we be able to go back to that consideration. Today, I ask you, by no means do I support these items in this program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Matthew is passing on to Kilinkar, a faction of Communists. Get ready, Maddusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law on Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 requires critical thinking and balanced evaluation. First. Ukraine's main projections for economic and social development for 2007, namely, an increase in GDP by 6.5 per cent and an increase in industrial output by 8 per cent, including an increase of 17 per cent in machine-building production, are considered to be overly optimistic by the Communist faction. It raises concerns about the financial situation of enterprises, nearly half of which are still bankrupt and their losses according to the State Department in the first half of 2006 amounted to 13.2 billion dollars. Nine percent of businesses didn't work at all. The most damaging sectors remain the industry, which has suffered more than 5.5 billion losses. That's right. Secondly, a faction of communists cannot agree with the government about the introduction of a social aid substitution programme, which acts as social support for vulnerable groups through targeted compensation payments, so-called monetaryization of benefits. What such a shift in benefits through targeted compensatory payments has led to Russia’s experience when financial resources did not reach the population. Thirdly, the Cabinet of Ministers needs to take more effective measures to secure working Ukrainian citizens with jobs and a decent salary, eliminating such a very negative phenomenon as the debt to pay their salaries, which amounted to 1.63 billion in June-month. Money, real support for disabled citizens and people with limited physical capacity, socially vulnerable populations, improving and reforming prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. Even now, local executives are unjustifiably raising housing prices and tariffs by 2-3 times. And senior officials claim that there are no alternatives to rising prices in the residential sector. The rise in social standards is accompanied by a sharp rise in prices for basic consumer products. Experts estimate that nearly half of Ukrainian citizens spend more than 60 percent of their income on food products, limiting themselves to recreation, purchasing clothing and long-term items, while in European countries this figure is 20-30 percent. In the draft programme, the government has declared increased cooperation with the EU and the creation of a free trade zone with these countries. Meanwhile, the process of displacement from the internal market of traditional Ukrainian goods is being stepped up, which in the future could lead to the final destruction of the agrarian sector of the economy and the light industry sector. So the main priority of economic growth should be to create reliable socio-economic foundations for society based on a systematic approach to state economic policy in implementing an innovative model of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u66	Mendus conveys the word to Vasil Bogchuk, a faction of socialists. Prepare for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u67	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues are the deputies! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ternopolishte Learning about Ukraine’s Economic and Social Development Programme raises many questions about price and tariff policies, social, industrial, regulatory policies, family support, youth, education, and health care. The Socialist Party faction is concerned about the liquidation of the State Committee on Forestry. There are many questions about energy conservation. But today I'd like to share thoughts about the question on which everyone else is dependent and whose least attention is energy supply. One of mankind’s most important problems is energy shortages. Oil is at war, each of us literally suffers daily from rising oil prices, and the fuel road causes social tension in society. It would seem that the Cabinet of Ministers, which develops the cost of a new production year, should first and foremost be concerned about how to build a programme of economic activities in a way that would stop energy growth. It is not possible to plan the development of national prosperity, depending entirely on whether the U.S. will bring order to Iraq or whether oil terminals will continue to burn and oil barrels will reach cloudy altitudes. However, the world is becoming increasingly focused on the production of fuel from renewable sources of energy. We hope to have noticed, for example, that for the first time in many years, cane sugar has not been imported from Brazil and Argentina into Ukraine. The fact is that in these countries it is now widely used to produce clean, cheap fuel. Then it's unlikely we'll ever see cane sugar in our countries. As I studied the Ukrainian Cabinet’s 2007 development project, I found no concern there that our country, in a mild sense, is sitting on an unalterable pipe of oil addiction. Nowhere is it discussed that our country is the real Klondike for renewable energy production, which in front of everything, the areas of the Ukrainian woodchopper and the police in the application of progressive technologies can produce high yields of rape, sugar beetroot, potatoes that produce cheap organic oil substitutes: bio-diesel and bio-ethanol. All of this refers to an important problem, one in which the whole world is working so hard and so hard. So, dissatisfaction in the State Budget project is an extremely important task: to produce electricity from renewable sources, the task today is not only on Minatomenerza, Naftogaz, but on the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, which has moved away from solving this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u68	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine” faction. Catherine Lapinium, please. Xenia Liapinius, please. To prepare Korz - Sivuliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2007 is kind of a very unique document because it seems to have been prepared by two very different governments. Yes, in particular, the first and second parts of this programme, namely: the objectives and priorities of socio-economic policy for 2007; and the second part: the measures of State policy in the fields and economic spheres are sufficiently literate, and this is not surprising because the explanatory note states that this is prepared in accordance with the main directions of government policy in the economic and social sphere for 2006, which were approved by the Government of Yehanurov and in accordance with the message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external status for 2005. What is more, when we compare individual text parts, we see that these are the very parts that the government of Yehanurov was preparing. At the same time, the Janukovich government draft programme has significant conceptual flaws, particularly, and firstly, such a thesis as “change in the conditions for applying a simplified tax system”, where it is proposed to take away the possibility of applying a simplified tax system in legal persons, small business entities is, in our opinion, totally unacceptable. This thesis has already caused a very serious resonance and turmoil among small business subjects. There are hundreds of references to the fact that this is actually going to make it worse, first of all, the national small producer, and these are in Ukraine, and this is absolutely not correlated with the programs of any party that went to the election and won the election process. The greater cynicism is that all of this is done with the goal of increasing subjects, the number of small businesses by five percent. How can a deterioration in tax conditions lead to an increase in the number? I guarantee that this will reduce the number of small businesses, especially legal persons. And I think this is a completely wrong strategic direction. It's different. The text of the program does not correspond in any way with the text of the State Budget Act. I want to give you just one small but very serious example. The program includes the task of carrying out a package of measures to legalize income from employment. And we all share that direction. However, the State Budget Act proposes to restrict the right to receive social benefits in relation to the family’s total income. And this will simply lead to people having an economic gain in hiding their real income from employment. So we never legalize wages, it's a serious internal contradiction. I'm not saying that the meaningful part one, the second completely contradicts the fourth part where there's a list of government programs that are offered to finance at the expense.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u70	Thank you. Korj is handing over to Mikola Sivulski, a faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Prepare the Soviet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u71	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Today the word “first time” has been spoken many times. Indeed, for the first time in the Supreme Council, the new electorate is invited to approve a program that initiates a policy of freezing income and reducing, lowering levels, living standards of the people. I will speak the facts specifically provided for in this program. Look at page 51, please. Since January 1, the minimum wage is 400 dollars. They say it's not a first-December transfer, it's what it's going to be like, but those who wrote this document probably forgot that from January 1st the tax went up by 2 percent. So you're planning that since January 1, everyone who gets the minimum wage will get 8 dollars less, and a whole six months less. Does the Constitution make similar decisions? This is a direct violation of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents any kind of decision from narrowing the rights and freedoms of citizens. Other innovations that are offered in this program. It's predicted that the real increase in income is going to be 7.9% on inflation 7.5, and the real income of the population as a whole, if in the working 7.9 the total population is 5.3%. What does that mean? So tell the pensioners, tell the people who live for social assistance, the benefits, that they're getting cut, that they're going to be dealing with the question of belt stretching, which has already been the case in this room. The next moment is the fantastic inflation figure of seven and a half. I tried to get a message from the minister, and I didn't get it. I said, “Please tell me, when there is a 3-fold increase in utility payments, what are you planning to reduce inflation for? ” He said that this trend is complex. So let's open the program and read, what do you mean? Food, food, food. That's the trend. But this trend this year was because Russia refused to buy, to market our milk and meat. What are we planning next year? Let's see what the agricultural situation is, can the village continue to subsidize our programs and ensure an increase in living standards? This year’s crop fell by 2.3 centimetres [2.3 ha]. Cattle is cut out because it's not good enough today. And further on from the village, do we plan to reduce the cost of milk, meat, and bread? That won't happen. Real inflation is going to be much bigger and a project that actually doesn't answer the key question that every citizen faces today: how to survive in conditions where you have to pay twice as much for an apartment. He doesn't answer, he needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u72	Arnold Radovets. Please, Mikola Tomenko, prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u73	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to one strategic moment that is very important. This is how much the State's economic and social development programme coincides with both the figures and the strategy with the budget we talked about. And in fact, in many positions it seems that the various departments of the Cabinet of Ministers have been preparing this document, because there are significant differences not only in numbers but in approaches. For example, in the area of our committee, the standards of the program are totally acceptable to us. But we can see that the confirmation is budgeted in a document called the budget is completely unaccounted for. Let's say this is about the need to increase and increase funding for the youth housing project, and we fully support it. But in the budget, you know, just to cover interest on loans paid, you have to put about 200 million in the budget, only 100 million in the budget. Only 30 million people have been made to pay about 350 million per year for young people to make a living. A similar situation in the publishing system. The government program identifies the need for effective management of the publishing industry. There is a privatization programme in the budget in Appendix, which provides for all printing of the district to privatize. I have a question: maybe one ministry wants to privatize everything, and the people who write the program want to manage it effectively. So I'd like the government to take these approaches because they're the exact opposite of these approaches. Traditionally, pension reform is an extremely important issue. I also support the program's approach to balancing the single pension system. But at the same time, by giving us the program, the Cabinet of Ministers approves the bill on the Cabinet of Ministers, which stipulates that for cabinet members, the pension is set at 70 to 80 percent of the wages. I mean, if we're reducing the pension there for the police and other categories of benefits, why don't we cut the government? I mean, to give you a sense of what 70 to 80 percent is. That's about 15,000 bracelets. So my approach is that. This strategic document should fully agree with the budget and other legislative acts proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, this document needs to be documented not only by declarations but also by keeping these declarations strictly clear in the budget. Just like, let's say, a story with free medicine. It's proposed to withdraw from the Constitution and then determine the list. Let's first define the exclusive list of free services, and then we'll give up the Constitution. That's why there's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u74	Lila Grigorovitch gives Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. Get ready, Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, allow me to express my assessments of the Economic and Social Development Programme, mostly agreed with the President of Ukraine. It is hoped that regardless of ideological and political views, most of us share the common goals of Ukraine’s further development. This is primarily about ensuring social stability and guaranteeing decent social protection for citizens, achieving European standards of quality of life, modernising the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy, and maintaining Ukraine's foreign policy and internal course. These goals have been set out in the Universal National Unity, which aims to bring about deep, meaningful reforms without which no qualitative changes in the country's social and economic life are possible. From this point of view, the State Economic and Social Development Programme for the seventh year could provide a clear list of mechanisms for implementing such goals, as set out in the Universal National Unity, to ensure a systematic, balanced approach to further social and economic reforms in Ukraine. And its implementation could be the basis for further cooperation between the President of Ukraine, the Parliament and the Government in socio-economic policy. At the same time, an analysis of the project indicates that the targets and tasks are very partially implemented in the project. In defining socio-economic priorities for the 7th year, the government stressed the active role of the state in stimulating economic development, in the development of active public investment, in the introduction of new mechanisms to stimulate regional socio-economic development. At the same time, the issue of the efficient use of the above-mentioned budgetary investments, the control of the state over the targeted channelling of funds received by the enterprise and various types of preferences, including special economic zones and areas of priority development, has not yet been clearly highlighted. The government plans to reinforce tax discipline. It can be agreed that, in order to control the state's fiscal stability, it is necessary. However, we must, and this should be emphasized, abide by the rules of the Law on Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity and refrain from any steps that may increase administrative and tax pressure on businesses. A major flaw in the project is the lack of attention to the tasks of European integration. The task of reducing economic separation from the countries of the United Europe, bringing the national economy closer to Euro-integration requirements, would be the main focus of the programme. Overly traditional extensive government approach to energy and energy conservation. The proposed measures virtually do not improve the country's energy security, nor do they increase the energy efficiency of the national economy. I can't find the answers in the project and the problem of high levels of economic tints. Detinction cannot be limited only by raising the level of government control, but it must provide for instruments to legalize the shadow capitals of non-criminal origin. It draws attention to the critically weak coherence of the programmes, the provisions of the programme with the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Without the mutual agreement of these documents, we will accept the document as a declaration, not as a meaningful document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u76	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Please, Andrew Sanchenko, get ready. I'm not letting anyone get ready for Chechtov today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u77	Sanchenko, “Block Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues! Of course, the discussion of the programme must begin with a procedural moment, since the relationship between the programme and the budget has been disrupted. That is, the primary document is the 2007 programme and the budget as a document supporting or providing the programme. When we move the cart ahead of the horse, the ride takes place in a certain manner. I'd say that's not the only problem with this document. The second very important question is that the title, the Social and Economic Development Programme, does not correspond to the content, that is, the 180 degree vector will rotate, then beat, to the opposite. The social and economic development programme should first and foremost be a list of measures to promote the economy as a whole, and we see separate measures to promote the individual regions of our country and individual groups of enterprises. That is, we give birth by our own hands if we adopt such a programme, so that the corrosion of the economy, the situation of lack of normal competition, the situation where the same businesses in the neighbourhood are unable to work properly because some have unwarranted preferences, while others have to compete in conditions that cannot be tolerated for a real producer. The next issue, which would appear to be the right idea — an innovative, investment focus — has also been expressed in fact in the declaration and has a practical application only for individual regions and individual groups of enterprises, not for the economy as a whole. As far as social development is concerned, perhaps the most negative part of the programme is what our colleagues have already talked about: the programme is aimed at reducing living standards. This also applies to pensioners, as there is no idea of increasing pensions or at least the ratio of pensions to higher prices. And the second is about wages. I mean, with respect to wages, there are two things that need to be noted. First. This is because wages or wage growth are lagging behind in terms of price growth. And secondly, it is also very important that in the regions, budgets that naturally relate to the programme, there is a hidden deficit of 23 billion, which in turn will lead to the collapse of local budgets. I think that many regions have not found answers to the vital questions they face on targeted regional programmes. As a Crimean, I have not found any answers, what will happen to water in Crimea, what will happen to Yalta's development programme as a resort, what will happen to the Eupatoria Development Programme as a children's resort, and what will happen to Sevastopol's integrated development programme?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Yes, Pinchuk gives the noun the word, Michael Chechchev. Get ready for Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovic, distinguished colleagues, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Government has submitted two strategic papers to the Supreme Council on the draft State programme for socio-economic development and the draft budget for the following year. Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 is an integral part of the Cabinet of Ministers programme. This programme reaffirms the consistency of the actions of the Government of Yanukovic, which is reflected in the nature and content of the proposed measures not only to address the crisis but also in measures to improve the socio-economic situation in the country. Priorities, objectives, criteria, achievements clearly linked to each other are proposed in the programme. This programme focuses on investment and innovation in economic development. The current Government is convinced that it will be able to establish a basis, both at the legislative and financial levels, for major structural reforms planned in 2008 not only in industry but also in the social sphere. The Government looks forward to the growth of the country's economy and to increased exports of products. Accordingly, in order to increase competitiveness for development, the modernization of industrial enterprises is intended to send tens of billions of bracelets. An accelerated export growth of 12 per cent is expected. The current reverse trend of the Government is intended to reverse the strengthening of economic relations with Ukraine's external partners, particularly with the European Union. The main objectives of the programme are to develop an innovative economic model by creating conditions for the operation of technology parks and the operation of venture funds, introducing a package of activities aimed at dramatically increasing investment flows, in particular through the development mechanisms of the domestic stock market. The programme provides for the innovative reconstruction of Ukrainian enterprises through public support for innovative programmes, as well as the creation of conditions for private capital involved in innovation and investment through the creation of venture funds. The programme envisages the completion of a regulatory framework for support for small and medium-sized businesses next year. The Government intends to reduce radically the number of public targeted programmes currently funded from the budget. Today, this is more than 300 programmes, with only 20 per cent to 30 per cent of them. The Cabinet of Ministers also intends to propose to the Supreme Council in 2007 to renew the benefits of free economic zones called economic growth. Only those who have proved their effectiveness are expected to be relieved. 2007 should be the year of major structural reforms with a view to building a foundation for sustained and long-term economic growth. The main challenge must be to transform the economy into a competitive state complex that will ensure the future social and humanitarian development of society. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u80	Thank you. Oleg Kalashnikov has the floor. To be prepared: Petrenko gives his word to the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Dear fellow countrymen, indeed, today Parliament is looking for the first time, in my opinion, at a truly innovative law, the draft of the 2007 State Economic and Social Development Programme. I cannot, by listening separately, agree with the comments they are making today on Ukrainian society. But what I want to say is that the innovation of this program is that today the government, led by Victor Yanukovic, is offering to the Ukrainian society, first of all, an economic, innovative, pragmatic program that must be in place to solve all the problems. State tasks that are designed to really improve the country's social and humanitarian development. Today, we are convinced that without the steady development of the economy, and this is the first time that this program stresses the need to transform the economy to such an extent that our economy is transformed into a powerful economic complex, which should provide social programs to improve and develop social programs aimed at a particular person and citizen of Ukraine. I am sorry that some of our opponents, those who are today targeting the opposition of the government, are misleading our fellow citizens. Today, the Government of Ukraine, presenting our country's 2007 budget, is focusing its efforts on the economic development of the state, state and social development programmes for 2007, for the first time in Ukraine's years of independence. Without that, there can be no social programs at all. That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this bill. Support with one goal that will enable our fellow citizens to understand: Without the economic steady development of the country, we cannot talk about the development of powerful social programs. And by assigning the National Security and Defence Committee, I would like to stress once again, unfortunately today the rumors that are coming to the representatives of the forces, from what the Defence Minister has said, are forcing many of the most decent officers and generals to write release reports. I appeal to you, Fatherland’s esteemed advocates: continue to serve the Fatherland today! The government of Viktor Yanukovich, the Supreme Council, will never let your social rights be abused.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Natalia Kraljevska, behind her - Bondar sends her to prepare Kurilo Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u83	Respectable people's deputies of Ukraine. On the agenda, an important, if not the most important, document defining the socio-economic development of the State for 2007. I'd like to draw your attention, specifically to the socio-economic situation. However, the authors of the draft programme focused solely on macroeconomic indicators, guided by their vision. Ukraine is primarily 46 million citizens. Above all, social development is important to them: stable work, wages, pensions are all that prevents poverty from falling behind. I am sure that no one in this room will dare to say that we have solved all the problems of ensuring at least the minimum social benefits. So why is the Government taking on global macroeconomic programmes, completely ignoring the needs of the people? As is possible, given the inevitable rise in gas prices and the catastrophic growth in housing and utilities, it is possible to channel the income of the budget to the existing but already multibillion-billion-dollar innovation and investment development programmes, which are not yet proven to be effective. The creation of preferences for SEZs and TPRs to extract income from taxation. The programme has artificially limited the growth of pensions, salaries, scholarships and benefits and has several increases in wages and consumption funds across a number of ministries. For example. The consumption costs of the General Fund of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are 529 million dollars. As for the Minfin machine, it's increasing 2.95 times. In the first part of the programme, we see six development goals, each with two to nine priorities. But in terms of the pressing interests of the population today, only one is relevant: it is improving the well-being of citizens and overcoming poverty. The first priority for this purpose is to increase the economic activity of the population and increase employment. The criterion for achieving this priority is the retention of unemployment at the 2006 level. So we do have an increase in employment or retention. We will now consider that 1 million graduates of higher and secondary education, vocational and technical education, will appear in the labour market in 2007, and we intend to keep employment rates. To date, population income growth has been 5.3 per cent lower than in recent years and the minimum wage has not reached the official subsistence minimum. And I would like to say that there is an internal contradiction in the draft programme, a contradiction to the budget with which the programme should be agreed. The main thing is that this programme is deeply antisocial. In this regard, we, the “Julia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Kurilo. To prepare, Vaziewsky is handing over Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable chairman, the electorate, I would like to point out that this program is not really of a social nature. Everyone talked about the need for social reform, social policy, but the program for the next year is just more antisocial. And it leads primarily to lower living standards. But I would like to focus on two points. First, restrictions on pensions for working pensioners. I think those who wrote this paragraph to the program just didn't figure out the risks that this would lead to. First of all, this will have very serious consequences for higher education, for education, and for the medical system. Since January 1st, all of Ukraine’s higher education institutions can be left without their professors and doctors of science in view of the fact that 80 percent of doctors of science, professors are retired, will be inconvenient after January 1. As a result, the decline, the sharp decline in the quality of knowledge The same may happen in a general school where today a considerable proportion of pensioners are simply uncomfortable working in a school. And the school will run out of teachers. Similarly, a hospital may lose a qualified doctor. In my opinion, this crime will be in front of our population, in front of our children. I'd also like to turn to one of the points in the draft law. This is part two, paragraphs 2.3.2., which provides for the reform of the Forestry Committee and the establishment of the relevant government body of the Ministry of Nature, as well as the liquidation of the Committee on Water Management and the liquidation of the Committee on Land Resources. Three committees want to eliminate, transfer to one ministry. But a similar reform was carried out, so if our officials wanted to see, let them study the experience of the neighboring country. Similar reforms, especially in the forest sector in the Russian Federation, have led to the destruction of the forest management system today and have led to a sharp increase in illegal and arbitrary logging, a financial crisis in state agriculture. In my opinion, this may also be a crime, so the government just needs to look at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u86	Thank you. Please Rephat Chubarov. To prepare Vladimir Landik, Biba gives him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u87	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! As with those who have spoken to me from this rostrum, I have no doubt that Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2007 should be adopted. The other thing that should be the program. Clearly, when I evaluated the program as a whole, I looked more closely at its parts directly related to the Crimea. In fact, the intention of the authors to give characteristics and forecasts separately in each area is to welcome them. But one cannot see that such an approach is quite formal. And I've already talked about it today. In the program, I found no position related to the need for the resettlement and placement of Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities who returned to Ukraine and their integration into Ukrainian society until 2010. I would not want to conclude that this was done on purpose. But I can't explain why the program is ignored, the State Development Program ignored the Crimean Tatar settlement program, because this program, the resettlement program, was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in May of this year. So I draw the attention of the authors of the State Program project to the need not only to mention the resettlement and placement of Crimean Tatars and people of other nationalities who have returned to Ukraine, but also to take into account the amount of funding that has been allocated to the programme for each year, ending in 2010. This is the approach that needs to be changed to the relevant articles of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007. I would like to say again from this rostrum, if we really want to respect ourselves, if we really want to take care of all the regions and their development equally, from an equal point of view, we have to make all the decisions that have been taken in the projects that are being considered in the Supreme Council today. Disdain for previous decisions is a disregard for those problems, for those who feel these problems. And that's why I'm once again pointing out to the government that we have to make adjustments as to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007 on the placement and resettlement of Crimean Tatars and instead of a figure of 44 million to return the figure of 82 million, which is approved by the programme, which is the same specific details to be written in the Ukrainian National Development Programme for 2007. Thank you for your attention. I suggest we get this project back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Vladimir Landik, prepare for Arjevetine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u89	Honorable National MPs. In general, by supporting the draft Law on Ukraine's 2007 State Economic Social Development Programme, I would like to make some proposals under paragraph 2.3.2. of the Environmental Protection Act. On page 136, the State Committee on Forestry is scheduled to be eliminated. Considering that the current structure has justified itself over time, and the confirmation is that the forest area in Ukraine has increased by 2.4 million hectares over the past 40 years, the stock of wood has grown more than 1 billion cubic metres, or nearly 2.5 times. During the years of independence, production continued to grow. The branch is stable, there is no debt for payments to the budget, to the pension fund, and to other funds. On a government-issued fund, it returns three times that amount. In Ukraine, many new forests need to be created on land that comes out of agricultural use, and they need to be carried out by a well - organized public service. More than 400 enterprises, institutions, and organizations with a wide range of economic functions are subordinated to the State. Therefore, the performance of the Minn-Nature functions conflicts with article 20, paragraph B, of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act and articles 28 and 29 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, which clearly define the powers of the Ministry of Nature and the State. The elimination of the Circmisphere is both economically and environmentally impractical. Therefore, I propose to preserve the integrity and independence of the forest sector, and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the 2007 “Basic tasks and actions of public policy”, paragraph 2.3.2. of the 2007 Ukrainian State Economic Social Development Programme. Well, what would you suggest. The government program should include an increase of 2.4 million hectares, improved plantation care, increased processing of timbers, and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u90	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. The seat passes the word to the Winsky, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Deputies! My presentation as to the question, what role does Ukraine's banking system play in this program that is being presented today? I would like to point out that many speakers stressed that this is an investment-innovation programme. And in parallel, if you look closely and read, in the program, no sentence, no paragraph, I'm not talking about a chapter that's not about the banking system. Some can be read about credit unions, insurance companies, and other nonbank market participants. Among other things, Ukraine’s banking system now has nearly 300 billion dollars in its assets. To compare, you know, our budget is 180 billion. Economic credit now accounts for more than 220 billion dollars. The population entrusted 90 billion dollars to the banking system. I'd like to say that right now there are 150,000 high-class market economy professionals in the banking system. And we often recall that even President Kuchma called the banking system a locomotive for economic reforms in our country. And, no doubt, our banking system has always been at the center of all economic transformations, because it is its nature. According to various international experts, the banking system today is the most progressive sector in the economy. And I think it's a shame that this kind of strong position of today's banking system in Ukraine is not being used in this program. There's a lot of emphasis on international investment from international financial institutions, that's right, but that's not enough. Today, we have between 80 billion and 100 billion dollars per capita in Ukraine. And it's also unfortunate that the state or authors of this program have not seen the banking system as their partner in the development of this one, which today was highlighted by the investment and innovation model of the new economic policy. I think the banking system could no doubt be the right filter for developing this economic policy, because bankers, money last day or bad projects don't invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Viennese Joseph. Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! A socialist named Winsky. What I'm saying is that the analysis of the program that's done is that it's radically conservative and liberal, and it's breaking the whole trend in Ukraine's development that's been set up in recent years. In other words, the authors of this program are completely outspoken in taking resources from the people of Ukraine and putting them in the pockets of the oligarchs or our Ukrainian nuvarians. This needs to be clearly understood. The whole ideology of this program is the Ukrainian people's “robbering” program. Whoever doesn't believe this, please take this program and read it carefully, and you will see it. The program predicts, first, a reduction in GDP over the budget to 29.9 percent. I'll say there's no country in Europe less than 40 percent of the redistribution, we have 29.9 percent. The program envisions brutal interference with the Constitution and the elimination of the article of the Constitution on free medicine, and this is a fact. The program predicts that even the 12 percent of enterprises that remained in state ownership will be eliminated, and these enterprises will be privatized. The program provides for the introduction without any restrictions, because the program doesn't show this, the market for agricultural land. At the same time, this liberal, superliberal program does not foresee an increase in employment, but it says that formal employment will remain at the same level as it is today. I ask the question: For whom is this reform being carried out? For whom? What is the meaning of this program? One point, one goal, is to continue plundering Ukraine and its budget, its national wealth. And this should be signed by those people who, when they went to the Supreme Council, talked about social protection, that they would work for the people, and so on. I'm asking that question. This program clearly means that if it is voted in the way it is -- I very much hope that it will change -- it will mean that the parties that have entered the anti-crisis coalition have given up virtually all their pre-election promises. Because they said one thing in the election: they wrote the exact opposite in the program. You can talk about nuances, you can talk about things -- there are also the right things, I don't deny it -- but it's basically a program of robbing the Ukrainian people and supporting them in this way is impossible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u94	The word is Kamchatny. I don't see him. Then, please, Rybuk gives the word to the head of the Gladys Mikhail Committee. He's got Vladimir Oliynik behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, guests! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has introduced a project of Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2007. Of course, I'm only going to focus on the main issues: the development of the agro-industrial complex. By the way, what I'm saying is that the program is better folded than in previous years. But I'm going to talk mainly about her flaws and problems. First. Yes, according to the Act on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, the national food reserve for regulatory functions in the main agricultural products market in 2007 should be 12 per cent. And if you translate it into money, it's 1.2 billion. In fact, only 685 million are allocated. The 2007 draft budget does not provide for the development of market structures and the organization of wholesale markets, as well as advisory services. Without addressing the problems that have been noted in shaping the agricultural market infrastructure, it is also impossible to solve the problems of turning individual agriculture into a commercial economy and increasing the income of the rural population on this basis. Second, the next problem is technical policy. The critical situation is extraordinary and, again, if it is budgeted today, the program declares that the issue needs to be resolved positively, and instead of 1.5 billion dollars, only 1.5 million dollars are allocated. Can we solve this problem? Of course not. Third, it is questionable that the work of the programme to improve production efficiency through the use of milled land is being carried out. Because the need, once again, in 850 million dollars, is only 540. Once again, it is not clear where the source of funding for this serious problem is. The programme's declarative approach is to develop energy-efficient technologies in the agricultural sector of the economy, which is not funded at all in the 2007 budget. Again, the desire does not match the possibilities. And, dear friends, the main question is to solve the social problems in the country. I think there's practically very little involved in this program. And in order to get out of this situation, we suggest that we prepare a completely different program or a separate program for the development of social programs in the country. And finally, in order to improve the public administration system, here was a speech by a colleague of mine, criticizing the reform of the nation's agriculture in the administration of specific state committees for forest, water and land resources. I don't think elimination is a way of reform. Reform must be carried out, but after thorough calculations and economic analysis. Taking into account those positions and those suggestions that we have made, I believe that the program should be adopted in the first reading as the Law, and that the proposals should be taken into account and accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u96	Please, Vladimir Oilynik. And two minutes will be left behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio audiences today, thank God that these two documents are the 2007 State Budget and the State Economic and Social Development Programme have come together in one place, so we can really look at these two documents that are virtually contradictory to each other. Because the program itself is a road map that we have to follow, which has to be budgeted. If you look at the tasks that the program itself puts and look at the budget, they're completely different. If Timoshenko’s government has increased the real population’s income by 20.5 percent, it is now projected to be 5.3 percent at 7.5 percent inflation. So this is another ideology of our society's movement. If this formula was previously suggested: by consumption, by people having money and being able to buy it themselves, and so to invest in the economy, we have chosen another way: by investing through different programs, oligarchy groups, but by reducing population consumption. This year is completely different. I already have the one that started. Since real consumption of the population will continue to decline, much of the family’s budget will be spent on heat, utilities, and energy. So in this respect, we think that this program is an anti-national programme, and it has no right to support Parliament. Besides, you know, sometimes you read the programs and the budget itself and you wonder how easy it is because of the changes in the legislative base that we're practically repealing the Constitution of Ukraine. If we take a number of articles that restrict, severely restrict and narrow down, and stop the social and legal norms on pensions, 57th article according to education and so on, then we should really read with you article 22nd of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is written that when new laws are adopted or changes are made to existing ones, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. It is with you that we must follow. Because then there is no point in adopting laws to stop or amend them by following laws. It's better to cancel, 'cause it's gonna be an honest policy. And so I urge all of you not to accept this document today, because it is imperfect and contrary to the current legislation and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u98	Miroshnichenko has the word. This will be the last performance in the discussion, then Mikola Janović can make a statement on this and we'll finish the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. First of all, I'd like to address our voters first. Everything you've just heard about the government reducing social benefits is not true. This may be due to some oppositional relevance, perhaps some deputies have not read the contents of the proposed program very carefully, but the government is not in any way reducing social orientation, but it is increasing investment. I'll tell you about the next one. What exactly is going on? And I'm drawing your attention, look at the level of our discussion, when there's a program on the table in front of each of the deputies except the budget. In fact, we are now being formed and we are being offered a new culture of government. First, a coalition formed. The coalition proposes a government-wide programme of activities. As a result of this program of activity, the government places tasks on the table for a year. What do we get as a result? We're going to get: (a) the possibility of structural reform, which was impossible before, because planning was only for 1 year and serious structural reforms could not be implemented in a year. On the other hand, when we receive a budget in a package of programs today, we don't do lobbying, as it has been for many years, each of the deputies, either of our own interests, or of the interests of our district, or of the electorate, suggests lobbying an article, and today we see: (a) priorities, goals, tasks. And so we're consciously building a program of activity not only to the government as such, but to all of our national authorities, because we are elements.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u100	Give him one minute, he's got time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u101	Okay, I'm not going to insist on anything that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u102	The point is that the Rules conclude the general discussion, and the MP is entitled to three minutes alone, and he has two minutes. But it happened that he confirmed the general rule, so thank you, Yuri Miroshnichenko. My word is Mikola Janović Azarov, please. First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Alexanderovich! The Government was grateful to all the people's deputies who had made critical, objective comments. And we will certainly take them into account in preparing for the second reading of the bill. I would like to focus on certain points. This is the social dimension of the social and economic development programme. Of course, the main objective of both the budget and the programmes is to ensure that the high social standards of our population are respected and, of course, the programme and the budget increase social costs for all major areas of all social programmes. Any objective critic can easily see this through careful analysis of these documents. It is regrettable when speakers, mainly from the opposition, do not understand or knowingly distort the concept of nominal wages and real wages. So we're talking about an increase in real wages, which, of course, takes into account inflation. Let us not speculate on this if we at least claim to be objective, professional and literate professionals. The issue of programme resources was raised. Of course, in this sense, the simultaneous presentation of the budget and programme, that the programme is resource-efficient. And, of course, a statement by some of the people's deputies said that there was a need to increase, and should be added. Two documents must be considered simultaneously and simultaneously proposed to modify the resources of the Social and Economic Development Programme and, accordingly, amend the budget accordingly. And we have more chronologically than enough for that time. Because at the end of October, you and I will consider the budget on first reading. First-reading budget is the approval of income, expenditure and budget deficits. That is, all the work of the People's Deputies, the Committees of the Supreme Council should now be to make proposals to maximize the income of the budget and to reduce the unsustainable cost of the budget. In order to maximize the budgetary balance sheet position. We're with you on first-reading budget. And we have, in accordance with the Budget Code, another month to actually work on the resource provision of each expenditure line of the budget. In this regard, work on the programme certainly offers this opportunity. The statements of the people's deputies contained specific criticism of the governance structure, whether or not there will be a State Committee on Forestry, which is up to you. We plan to begin administrative reform in 2007. It is up to you and me to adopt the model of administrative reform. We're not going to rush. We understand the importance of these committees. Therefore, we are prepared to consider positively the proposals of the people's deputies. Therefore, as I conclude, I would like to thank you once again on behalf of the Government and call for a first-reading vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the document has been discussed. A few bars of general order. Dear Mikolo Janovich, honourable deputies. It seems to me that in preparing for the second reading, if we vote today in favour of adopting this document in the first place, in the first reading, we need to pay attention to the remarks made by the deputies during the discussion. In particular, in my view it was the right thing to say about many priorities, and it was obviously more important to determine fewer priorities, and then to make reference to how they would affect different areas of social life: education, science, health care, and so forth. And then we need to look closely at the legal co-existence of the very programme of activities that propose laws and whether there are any existing, valid laws. Because there are several examples, and they have spoken in the discussion that is proposed to do what is already provided for by valid legislation. Obviously, we need to do a good legal expertise on the bill, taking into account both the conclusions of our professional administration and the comments made by the deputies here. In the speeches in the vast majority, the proposal was to support the project in the first reading and to allow it to be further developed when the budget was being considered and for the next year, so that both documents could harmonize with one another. I therefore put this proposal to the vote on the adoption of the draft Law on the State Economic Social Development Programme 2007 in the first reading. Please. [[13:56:06]] For 242 As Mikola Volodymyrovich said, it's all right. Decision taken. We thank the Cabinet of Ministers for the prepared document and ask them to take it, despite the fact that this document is now under consideration in the Supreme Council, to actively join in improving it, so that at the next vote and those who thought it was drawing votes to join in with their votes. Thank you. Break till 4:00. The morning session is closed.
