ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:20]] There were 383 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, please be advised to listen. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbato Valeri Mironovic, from the political party’s deputy faction the National Union “Our Ukraine”, the faction “Our Ukraine”. Yes, we've decided on the list of issues for the plenary week of January 17-20. You have this list. At the same time, I can see that two factions -- the faction of the Ukrainian Region and the faction of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party -- are asking to announce a 30-minute recess to reconcile positions. [[united]] So you're going to make a statement right now? What? I'm asking you not to tell me. If you need me, I'll have the head of the Regulatory Committee, but not you, please. A meeting could be held in such a way that a meeting could continue, a meeting of the conciliatory board. Adam Ivanovich would hold a meeting at the same time. Do you mind? I ask then, fellow dignitaries, that Adam Ivanovich continue to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions to meet on the third floor in five minutes to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Please be on the third floor in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We need to put into the agenda and decide on the draft Recognition Act in such a way that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Entrepreneurship Subjects associated with the Realisation and Export of Timber. Registration number 8554. This is the Presidential Bill. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:05:24]] For-67 The decision is not supported. We didn't make it? I'm explaining. The President of Ukraine asked the Supreme Council to consider an immediate draft of the Recognition Act in such a way as to lose the validity of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of business activities related to the implementation and export of timber. Bill 8554 registration number. You and I have passed a law that restricted this activity so that we can have more forest. The President is now proposing that this law be repealed. Who's in favour of getting back to the question, please vote. [[10:06:53]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Maybe we'll ask the Cabinet for an explanation. Please, Ignashenko. Oh, that's all right. They say they don't understand. Let him say two words. Please Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u3	Thank you. On December 13, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Entrepreneurship Subjects associated with the Realization and Export of Timber. Sadly, this Law is, in fact, impossible to apply the standards contained in this Law for the following reasons. First, the issue of certificates of passage is envisaged and these certificates of origin are to be issued not by the Chamber of Commerce or Industry, as provided for by the legislation in force, but by the authorities that regulate the forest sector. Hence, these certificates of origin are not related to export operations, but also to the implementation of pilomaterials and timbers in Ukraine. Let's take an example: a circle comes from Russia, it's sprayed here, and then you have to do the certification. That is, it does not correspond to the spirit and the letter of legislation. And some other things that make it impossible to apply this law. So if you would allow me, I would report more thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u4	Yes, of course, dear colleagues, everyone understood. The data is already explained. I once again put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Recognition Act in such a way that the Ukrainian Act “On the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Entrepreneurs associated with the Realisation and Export of Timber”. Registration number 8554. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:09:27]] For the 120th. But that's not enough. So the bill is not included in the agenda. We also need to include in the agenda and consider today a government draft of the Law, which is recognized as an urgent, priority. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on Road Traffic Safety]] Registration number 8339. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:10:15]] For-142 But we can do it again, but we've already dealt with it in violation of the Rules last week. We didn't support him then. I mean, you insist. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich, the argument. Lucenko will now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this law with special consideration. After all, we are not content with the condition of road traffic. Although the number of accidents did not increase, at least seven thousand people were killed last year. Each day, there are about 700 drunkards driving, who cannot be held accountable. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about the final adoption of the law. But allow the commissions to polish and make a law that will help to bring order to both the benches of DAI, and in the benches of those lawbreakers that are simply a death threat to our roads. I very much ask you to accept them as a basis for the work of experts and all interested parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u6	Given the argument, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Who's for coming back to this question, please make up your mind. [[10:11:55]] For 204 We're working on it. The factions, please. “Ukraine” – 45, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 33. Unfortunately, I have no further sign of the board. People's Party and. Please step away from the "Council" system, look at my monitor. And please look at the monitors that are there. Very serious, but take it seriously. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda, the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of the production and circulation of tobacco products, registration number 8506. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Please vote. [[10:13:27]] For 252 Questions in the agenda are included. Let us go to his consideration. Please report to National Deputy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, from the committee to prepare Anatolia Seminozi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u7	The President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, national deputies, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Population Health, which has led to a transitional change to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production, circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and tobacco products, has led to a series of legal commissions between the individual provisions of these laws. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's laws on State regulation of ethyl alcohol, alcohol and tobacco products, and the draft legislation on measures to prevent and reduce the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects on public health. These supplements relate to informing the population about the characteristics of tobacco products and suggest that the definition of the essential ingredients of tobacco smoke be clarified. Some positions regarding tobacco trade are also clarified. The change in paragraph 2 of the project is proposed in order to prevent the use of tobacco term products, trademarks, symbolic or any other signs that may mislead you, or to give the wrong impression about the characteristics of tobacco products and their impact on the health of the population. Either directly or indirectly create a false impression that a defined tobacco product is less harmful than other tobacco products. Including such terms as low tar, light, super light, ultra light, and their analogs to other brands. At the same time, it should be noted that there is another bill by the national MP Lapina, which is also, as it were, an alternative, and the committee suggests in the future, in furthering the second reading, that all the right suggestions by Kseniya Lapina should also be included in the body of this bill in the work. The committee considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on the first reading and the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u8	Are there any questions? Please sign in. Please, three minutes, Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Vitaly Yuriovich! I personally doubt that any changes in tobacco advertising, improving this ad, modifying this ad will contribute to either increasing smokers or reducing them. It's like a fairy tale that someone started drinking because they saw an attractive bottle of whiskey on the commercial or something. I have a question of a different order. Please tell me, are you on the profile committee, have you calculated the costs of companies that produce tobacco products and pay good taxes to our budget, what damage will they bear, and what will we compensate them for? And is there even going to be any cost for the budget in this case, for not finding the budget, or not? These costs, we're putting changes on them to the advertising campaign?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u10	Of course, this applies only to business subjects. And every company that manufactures tobacco should work in this direction. So it doesn't matter to government or local budgets. Moreover, this bill is designed to improve European standards. In particular, there is a framework convention on tobacco control by the World Health Organization. And article 11 clearly repeats what is proposed in this bill. We also consulted tobacco producers and there are no objections. So this goes within the framework of European rules and directives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u11	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u12	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, unlike many other factions who did not support the previous issue of the agenda, namely the safety of traffic, it turns out that the people who are drinking should be on the road and pushing people, we supported the faction “Our Ukraine”, putting this issue in the agenda. That's why you're standing in the rostrum. Actually, I reported the law that you want to make changes to. I am proud to say that since January 1st, Ukraine has become a European country and restrictions on tobacco, and the damage from it we all know very well because we talked about which are extremely large. In view of that, I would like to stress that we are ready to consider and support this issue with the condition that we amend the second reading and maintenance of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kseniya Mikhailni Ljapina, because we have endured all procedural standards, we are enduring the spirit of the Tobacco Control Act, and we are resolving those nuances that are certainly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Lilia. In my speech, I focused on this and on the fact that the proposals made by the national deputy Lápiná are correct and, of course, we will take them into account when working on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u14	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u15	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! It is believed that the bill is worth supporting in all its components, and it is absolutely right for a committee of profile to say that it must be supported. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the drafters of this bill are, in a good way, representatives of different factions, which demonstrates a sufficiently consolidated view in this room. I hope it does. In any event, when I spoke to Sátiny Mikhail Lukovic, who is a member of the People's Block of Lithuania, I was confident enough to apologize for the tautology that the law in a good way helped to deal with tobacco regulation. Because if there is chaos in this market, unfortunately, it will do the greatest harm to our population. Therefore, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania have always been, are and will be, supporters of the tight state regulation of the tobacco market and the corresponding observance of all norms of civilized behaviour in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u16	We'll count Vasil Ivanovich as a performance. Please sit down, Vitalia. From the committee member of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Seminogue Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u17	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 20 December 2005 reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Shevchuk, Siatina, Loboda and Homutinik. [[on State regulation of the production and circulation of tobacco products]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law “On State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac, fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and on measures to prevent and reduce the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects on the health of the population. All the supplements apply to informing the population about the characteristics of tobacco products and propose to clarify the definition of the basic ingredients of tobacco smoke, as well as to clarify certain positions regarding the trade in tobacco products. The changes in paragraph 2 of the project are proposed in order to prevent the use of tobacco products, inscriptions, trade marks, symbolic or any other character that may mislead or give a wrong impression on the characteristics of tobacco products, their health effects or directly or indirectly relate to the misgivings of the notion that the tobacco product is less harmful than other tobacco products, including such terms as “with low resin content”, “light”, “superlight”, “ultralight” and their analogues in other languages. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Office of the Supreme Council, the bill could be based on consideration on December 6, 2005. At the committee meeting, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u18	Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Let's take 15 minutes. Please, George Carmazin, prepare for the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u19	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to understand that smoking is a pity that we are deliberately allowing the state to do to people. We have to allow with you that damage is happening today in every enterprise, organization, institution, including the Supreme Council, in which smoking has not been stopped, despite the laws and regulations that have been passed, in which today, when we enter certain public places, we have to do something about clothes. And that's what we're doing with our lungs today. The proposals under Article 11 of the Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, horsepower, fruit and alcohol and tobacco products may be supported, but how can we agree with this line: “The manufacturer may place additional information on labels on the characteristics of the product”. What characteristic of cigarettes might be extra, please tell me? And why is it written in the West in one third of the pack that this can lead to death, and we write in one - to - one type: “It is harmful to health. Minhrav warns.” Let's write that and we'll write that it leads to death. Let's write, and in capital letters, as in the European Union. You're going to Europe! Because we have this: we're going to Europe, but it's so quiet, and we're going to have tobacco and we're going to have it sold and we're going to use it. What additional information the authors see, can apply, I don't know. And at the same time, in this additional information, we prohibit the misleading one. But they are constantly misleading and showing how beautiful life is under these cigarettes, and all over Kiev, and all around Ukraine, these ads are standing. Now it's different. It is prohibited, in the second paragraph of Article 10, to read: “The production and import of tobacco products in Ukraine is prohibited, cigarettes with nicotine and tar levels in the smoke of one cigarette exceed 1.2, resins 12”. Obviously, we need to do everything we can to ban as little as possible from allowing nicotine and tar to produce cigarettes with as little content as possible. And that's what we need to do. How does this law help? I don't see how he's doing that. I am told that this Law corresponds to the provisions of Directive 2001 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u21	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. The bill is certainly a positive one for the entire population of Ukraine. Tobacco has several vectors, several directions of action for both people and the whole state. This, first of all, health, is pollution of the environment, it is damage to the state and people who are the result of such reckless treatment of tobacco, it is a development of immorality and depravity. Among the various ways in which environmental pollution occurs, environmentalists have singled out the concept of tobacco pollution. This is why socialists generally support the bill in the first reading and will vote in favour. Of course, adjustments must be made to the terms of the Law that already exist, especially nicotine, nicotine, nicotine, and other concepts, resins, and other concepts. It is necessary, of course, to work on this Law for a second reading. And I emphasize this because the bill in this case is for the benefit of, above all, the health of people. This is especially true of children. The bill should emphasize and more spell out harsh conditions and influences regarding restrictions on the sale of tobacco products, especially for children. Because it all starts at a child's age. If children are raised in such a way as to know what tobacco pollution is, and how it affects their personal health, and not only their personal health, but also those around them, it will be greater than that. As far as advertising is concerned, it was definitely about corporate damage and so forth. Counting the state’s health - related damage from the negative health effects of smoking can certainly prevent one from associating with another. So once again, I stress that socialists support this bill in the first reading. And I ask the committee and who will continue to work with the bill to take into account the comments made and those made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u22	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u23	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I must immediately determine how our faction feels about this bill. We certainly support him in the first reading. And all I have to do is add the following. In our lives, health is not limited to physical consumption, such as alcohol, tobacco, drugs, and so on, and it affects the health of the population directly and directly. But it also has an impact on the spiritual and cultural realm of our people. And when you're actually promoting alcohol in different forms, tobacco in different ways. Even now, there has been talk among doctors about light drugs and the possibility of using them to reduce the drug addiction of those who are sick and have certain health problems associated with drug use. Let's also think about whether it will bring about positive changes in the spiritual and cultural spheres of our society and among our people, here is the unlimited commercialization of alcohol, tobacco and other not-so-needed means, not the essential consumption products that we are discussing today. Therefore, I would like to ask not only the Ministry of Health to make such an inscription on cigarette packages, which is negative, which is detrimental to human health, but also to address the area that deals with the spiritual and cultural needs of people, so that these cigarettes are written “act harmful to the spiritual condition of the person who consumes cigarettes”, “Dia harmful to the spiritual condition of the person who consumes alcohol”, is an enemy for the demographic development of our country and our state. And that's the last thing I have to say. Even in a developed capitalist country, the United States has identified the pattern of democracy and banned the use of tobacco and restricted the use of alcohol in public buildings. Let's do it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u24	Basil Nadrag. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u25	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill requires that our domestic legislation be brought into line with the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control of the World Health Organization. Accordingly, it will lead to the streamlining of our legislation, including within the framework of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. That is, we are creating normal legislation that enables civilized conditions to be created and what civilized conditions are in the tobacco market. First of all, it is certainly an issue for us to move from propaganda, tobacco promotion, tobacco itself, to stricter measures to explain what harm is from the use of tobacco. And in my view, it's very important when we talk about children first. Because children who have watched commercials where cowboys jump and perform feats where all kinds of cute smokes surround the tobacco-smoke environment, in captivity, I emphasize in captivity and are drawn to this evil, which is called tobacco. Therefore, when the entire group of authors, as I have already mentioned, including my faction colleague, the People's Party of Lithuania, the People's bloc of Lithuania, Sátina Mikhail Lukovic, became the author of the bill, this was fully supported. Why? Because a ban, see what is supposed to be a ban on the use of terms that may mislead a buyer or a simpler person. Because when it comes to talking about what it says on the packets, that it's light, super light, ultra light, there's an effect, when especially young people, I stress once again that it's not the evil that needs to be fought. You will see what they do in normal, civilized countries, more than 50 per cent of the tobacco packaging area is devoted to either warning that it is evil or more pictures showing all kinds of horrible things that tobacco causes. Throat cancer is another problem that arises from a person if he, I beg your pardon, is drawn to this abomination. That is why I think this bill must be adopted and supported accordingly. Therefore, today, when we discuss this subject at the morning meeting of the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, we have determined that we will vote unanimously, assuming that it is normal, it is civilized. Most importantly, we believe that information from the population should be as objective as possible. And the talk of some positive developments related to tobacco must be completely excluded from advertising, starting with the advertising that hangs on the bigboards in our cities and ending with the advertising that is placed on cigarette labels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u26	Sergei Shevchuk. John the Rabbit, please, John Alexander the Rabbit, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u27	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear National Deputies! We are considering a very serious bill today. And it's not just technical questions. It is not just a desire to bring existing legislation into line with European legislation. This question can also be considered from a moral and ethical point of view, in terms of preserving the health of our nation, especially our young people, our children. Because it is not a secret that the interest in cigarettes in our youth has increased in recent years. Instead of engaging in sports, children smoke too much, children drink. And that's why we have to give this discussion another dimension, another plane. But if you make specific adjustments, you may also disagree with a number of such amendments. For example, I take an article in the first law on prevention and reduction of tobacco use and their harmful effects on public health. Earlier, the article first identified nicotine as nicotine. It's a substance that's contained in tobacco, and which, if you use a person's tobacco product in any way, is capable of addicting it. So the point here is that if you use cigarettes, you can get addicted, nicotine addiction. What we are now offered by the authors of the amendment. They just write that nicotine is nicotine alkaloids. Well, if it's information and what it might be, well, scare people, we'll talk, or that information that expands understanding, what nicotine is. So I firmly object to having article 1 in such an editorial today. This is also true of the definition of resins. If it was said earlier that as a result of the folding of tobacco and it contains harmful substances for human health, we don't read it now, we just read that resin is a raw, anhydrous, nicotine-free condensate of smoke. What is the effect of this condensate, this smoke, on human health? Nothing in this bill is said. So I think it's going to be a very good second reading to look at and probably not change this article. You might have a point to article 10, but I would like us to take a more responsible approach to the adoption of this bill. So the position of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka is to adopt the bill in the first reading, but in the second reading, the changes to article 1 are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u28	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8506. [[on State regulation of the production and circulation of tobacco products]] [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Please vote. [[10:41:31]] For 299 Why don't we take it in general? There's a warning from the Hare. So it was accepted in the first reading. Let's move on to the section by a simplified procedure. The draft Law amending article 241 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 7719, is under consideration. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that instead of acting as Minister of Justice of the Chief Justice, he may be tired of comments by Sergey Petrovich. This law was reported by Deputy Justice Minister Kotlar Dmitry Mikolaiovich. Please. Oh, no? And he's gone? Then Gorbun's Lydia Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u29	The Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 241 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code has been developed with a view to bringing legislation into line with the Ukrainian Civil Code Act of March 3, 2005. The Law changed the arrangement for the appointment of a caregiver and a caregiver. Yes, before making changes to the Civil Code, the court ruled on the limitation of the civil capacity of the individual or the recognition of the individual as ineffective. And the caregiver or guardian was appointed to care and care. Today, according to the Civil Code, the question of the appointment of a guardian or caregiver is decided by the court on the basis of the proper filing of the custody and custody body, as indicated in the court’s decision. In connection with this project, it is envisaged to amend article 241 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code in order to harmonize its provisions with the Ukrainian Civil Code. Thus, it is proposed that in the article in question the order for the court to appoint a guardian or caregiver in cases provided for in article 60 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The adoption of the bill will allow for the elimination of disagreements and differences in the legal provisions of the courts when dealing with cases of limitations on the civil viability of a natural person, the recognition of a natural person as ineffective or the renewal of a socially viable individual. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this bill and considers it a result to be adopted in the first reading. With regard to the comments made by the Supreme Council's National Expert Office, these comments are suggested to be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee of profile, the head of the Committee Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u31	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill and considered it necessary to support it in the first reading and to vote on the basis. It is a matter of cases where it is on the basis of a court decision that a citizen can be limited in his or her ability to do so. Well, let's say that when he abuses alcohol, or restricts a minor to the right amount of money, and in cases where there is a conclusion of psychiatric expertise -- and a citizen -- a natural person is found to be incapacitated. At times, this is the case when a caregiver or a caregiver does not properly carry out his duties. In such a case, an appropriate court order would have to deprive them of their responsibilities as either a guardian or a caregiver. So this is where the guarantees of citizens in everyday life are raised. We think it's not only necessary to accept it as a basis, well maybe there'll be some additions in the second reading, because it's bringing the Civil Procedure Code into line with current legislation and enhancing the protection of citizens' rights and interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. That's an interesting question. Then Karmazin will begin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the conclusion reached by the chairman of the Onopenko Committee on the possibility of adoption in the first reading of this draft Law. But what I'm trying to say is, absolutely right, is a proposal from a science-expert authority that needs to be heard about. That this question does not refer at all to the content of the decision on the limitation of the civilian efficiency of the individual and the recognition of the individual as ineffective, which is governed by the 241 Ukrainian CDC. That is, changes should be made, but not to this article, respectable. So the Scientific and Experimental Authority offers a way out: to make changes to a particular article, to call it badge 1, provided this article: 241-1, a review of an application for the release of a natural person from exercising custody or caregiver's authority. What's the motivation? Motivation and that this claim may be made after the court’s appropriate decision has been reached. That is why it is also necessary to resolve the question of the procedural processing of a case in the event that a guardian or caregiver has in fact ceased to exercise their powers in accordance with the new edition of part one of article 75 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which provides that the person appointed by the custodian or caregiver shall exercise appropriate powers before the end of the month period from the date of filing the application, unless it has been considered by the court during that period. These changes will also require that if we make this article 241-1, we also provide for the appointment of a guardian or caregiver of a minor or a minor if it is established in the case that these persons are deprived of parental care. Thus, honourable national deputies, these changes are relevant, they must be made, and here only the adoption of this bill is needed. Since we will have to renumber the articles, we will still have to amend other legislative acts in connection with the adoption of this legislative act. And in general, I think that this legislative proposal has to be supported, and the Ministry of Justice, and the Supreme Court supports absolutely these proposals, which is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk. Prepare Michael Rodion. Mikhailo Rodionov, please. Alexander Bandurka is next. The microphone from Rodionov's place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u35	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. The Communist faction will support this bill. Of course, not only is it not appropriate but it is nonsense when there are different interpretations in the various codes on the subject. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of the bill will allow us to bring Ukraine's Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, into line with each other. And, of course, this will improve the resolution of these custody and custody issues. But I want to point out that this problem is morally very much a problem. There are countless examples of abuse of those processes or forms or care, or other ways in which people are said to be dishonest, deprived of children and adults for this reason. But what I'm trying to say is, let me make a note of that. Of course, it's not a legal aspect, it's primarily the moral aspect of society. Because we try, of course, and rightly, with the help of the court to solve these problems, but there are countless cases where the courts also make decisions so easily not legal. And these decisions are not for the benefit of these people. Yet, as they say, we need to understand in society that without improving the moral, moral environment, we will never be able to have children, such as needing care or adults, who are said to be protected. But, of course, as they say, judges, of course, we rely on judges, but can we say the case and the judge who? Such a society, such as the judges. But in general, of course, legal acts need to be amended and we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u36	Alexander Bandurka, please. Sergei Shevchuk is next. Nor is it. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u37	As of September 1, 2005, the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code had entered into force. And we're forced to adopt a whole series of bills or amendments that we agree on to ensure that the Code of Civil Procedure is brought into the Civil Code. It is just article 241 of the Civil Procedure Code, as we are encouraged to accept and communicate the relationship between the two codes. The bill proposes to make the following changes. First. The court, by adhering to a decision on the limitations of the civil capacity of a natural person or the recognition of a natural person as ineffective, appoints a natural person with limited civil capacity, a guardian, and an incapacitated natural person with care. We have almost a million citizens in the country who need care or care. It's also a million that we've seen as a category of homeless Ukrainian citizens, of which 200,000 are underage. I'm just calling you this famous data, I'm repeating it as a justification for the relevance of these changes. The court, at the request of the person appointed by the guardian or guardian, relieves the guardian or guardian of the month’s term of office and appoints another person to be the guardian and caregiver. That is, it refers to the moment of determination of the caregiver and the caregiver. We see in this that the adoption of the bill will allow us to bring the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine into line with each other, which will improve the resolution of procedural issues related to care and care. This law could be adopted as a law in its fullest sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u38	Thank you. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u39	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Dear National Deputies! We have to adopt this bill and the faction will vote for it because it's about bringing Ukraine's Civil Procedural Code into line with the Ukrainian Civil Code. What are we talking about? The point is that these changes are proposed to replace the mechanism of appointment of a caregiver or caregiver. If care and care agencies have done so before, it is now suggested that the court do so. I think it's a better formula because on the one hand, we're sort of splitting this process up, there's a couple of lines of preparation for decision-making. Because the guardianship or guardianship body, he will collect this information, he will take it and file it in court, and the court will decide whether or not to appoint a person as guardian or caregiver. It seems to me that there will be more control here than the current situation where the sole care and care bodies deal with this problem. There'll be more publicity, more openness and more self-control. I think it's the best thing. But I would like you to look at this problem further. I was marked by a national MP with a problem of the homeless. But there is still a problem and adoption. And this is how you build this chain. How to bring all these people together, get them out of the street, and really give each one of them a family. And if it is not possible to give this child a family, then this person, this child, must be formed under normal conditions so that he may develop as a full - time citizen. Therefore, we do not need to dwell on such changes today. And let's think about how to continue this chain. So the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy supports this decision. But I'm asking you to think about how to continue this chain. How to address the problem of the homeless, how to solve the problem of adoption. Because the number of children who are now in the lurch cannot be said, not from their own fault in the streets, but from the fault of the parents who drank their lot, who want to drink the fate of their children, because of our authorities, who look at the problem through our fingers, we are actually crossing the future of our country. That's why children are the future of our nation. We live for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u40	Let's support John Alexanderovich's call for a continuation, that is, an increase in population. And we will support the law in the first reading on amending article 241 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Registration number 7719. Please vote. [[10:59:20]] For 253 Copy that. Maybe as soon as we adopt the law? Is there no objection? Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I told you, when I was speaking, you didn't listen very carefully to the need to listen to the Scientific and Expert Authority and to put this issue in the new article, “Review of an application for the release of a natural person from exercising custody or guardianship.” It's impossible to do that if we take it right away in two readings. Therefore, we need to limit ourselves to one reading, Adam Ivanovich. So I warn you, let's not do that. Let's do better. Why do we want to hurry here right now? This isn't the case when we hurry up and do something good, let's do something balanced, it's the Civil Procedure Code, we've been with you for three years, if you remember. The Council of Europe was still an expert. This is not the case when we can hurry so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u42	There is a denial, so we will not rush, although the problem is that it should be solved. The draft Law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 7689, is under consideration. [[on the responsibility of the custodian or custodian for the violation of the housing and property rights of the underprivileged]] Reporter to the deputy minister of the family, youth and sports, Condratiuk Tetjana Viktorovna Get ready for Victor Musiacs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed by Minsimiyoungsport and provides for the court to authorize a person to be released from custody or guardianship if he claims to be a guardian and caregiver in the event of a violation of his or her property and housing rights. Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions and social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care are provided for the authority to provide care and care for the protection of the property, housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Involvement in the responsibility of those who violate children’s rights, as well as filing applications, complaints about their rights. In view of this, it is necessary to reconcile article 75 of the Civil Code with the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[to increase the responsibility of the guardian or guardian for the violation of the housing and property rights of the underprivileged]] The adoption of the proposed amendment bill to article 75 of the Ukrainian Civil Code will significantly improve the protection of the housing and property rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u45	Honorable national MPs, it is a matter of supplementing article 75 of the Ukrainian Civil Code with a position that allows a guardian or caregiver to leave his or her responsibility for the cause of corruption. I'd just like to make a little handbag. We have to bring the Code of Civil Code into law, and the rules of law are always in line with the Civil Code. But now we're improving, so I hope we can do it, the very position of the Civil Code itself. When we discussed the issue on the Legal Policy Committee, we drew attention to the observation of scientific and expert management, absolutely appropriate, that it should be written in the law, not about the violation of subversive property and housing rights, but about the violation of rights in the general context. It's also about immeasurable rights, which are in the fourth book of the Civil Code. But that's what we're going to do on the second reading, the second reading of the preparation. There is now a proposal to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u46	Thank you. Are there speakers? Please short-circuit procedure, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, since we have not noticed this moment in time, article 75 of the Civil Code has failed to receive the specificization that is now being proposed. But we thought it was enough of what was written in the law. The law stated: “According to the guardianship and care body, the court may relieve a person of his or her custody in the event that he or she fails to perform his or her duties.” It is now proposed to add the words: “infringement of property and housing rights of the underground”. As long as you and I continue to think about it, this specification: “a violation of the property and housing rights of the underground” – will continue and violations will continue all the time. I agree with Mr Musiyak's point and report on the fact that we can agree with the observation of scientific expertise, and in my heart I deeply agree with this that yes, intangible rights are very important, in particular the right to health care, medical care, personal privacy, others defined by this book, fourth: “The fundamental non-minor rights of the individual”. But those rights can be protected in criminal order and otherwise. If a child is deprived of property and housing rights, he will not be able to exist. This is very, very serious. And that's why I think we have good reason to make decisions on the adoption of this law in two readings right now without delay. And I came here -- I asked Mr. Musiaks to back me up so that I could read two of them right away, because it's very important. We'll go with you, we'll have a break, and at the time, some of the kids are taking the apartment, some of the kids are taking the property. At this very time, this month, two, as long as all of this is going to go on, all of this is going to go on. And then the election, and then you don't know what else is going to go into the agenda. Let's take it in two readings and then make changes later. Boring is not so painful and important for a child’s life. More importantly, we need to give the authorities care and care, and we need to protect the rights of minors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u48	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, as always, you were convinced. Maybe we can support it as soon as the Law does. Santa Claus, please. Prepare Michael Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u49	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. During the years of the authoritarian dictatorship of the regime that came out of the history of our nation, there has been a great deal of evil. The immediate elimination of evil is not easy. It's always broken fast, but it's built extremely hard and extremely long. In order for the state to be less evil, it is necessary to establish in the State the principles of the parliamentary-presidential republic. I stress that since 1 January 2006, other rules of life have been established in the State with regard to the parliamentary-presidential Republic. The past period since November 2004 also confirms that political reform is hampered by those who do not want to continue to develop in a state that wants to develop in a state just like economic, political, social, and social. In particular, this is also true of the problem with children that has just passed a law on protection that deals with income-related children, and we are now considering another bill that deals with protection, especially children, regarding housing and property. The bill on raising the responsibility of the guardian and those who are in charge of the violation of housing and property rights is progressive, and the Socialists will vote for it. Because there is already a pattern in our country that can be called business. A business has emerged: child care is provided, and then, using it, property, housing, and a child is left without possessions, no housing, no future. Minister of Internal Affairs Lucenko has repeatedly emphasized the attention of both the subordinates and the entire state of our country to the life image of both guardians and caregivers. Thus, a bill designed to protect children’s housing and property rights, orphans and children, as well as deprived parental care, supports the bill because it is socially oriented and protects children’s housing and property. But the problem of adoption and homelessness remains. So we need to take the next step in solving these problems. Because a number of laws have already emerged that regulate the protection of children, but the problem has not yet been resolved. Socialists support the bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u50	Please, Mikhail Rodionov, microphone from the scene. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u51	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. The Communist faction will support this bill, but we think it's the first reading, because there are problems. See for yourself. In line with this draft law, it is true that it is right, perhaps in the legal sense, that according to an authority’s claim to care and care, a court can relieve a person of his or her custody if he or she fails to perform his or her duties. I want to say that it's important and right that this is going to be introduced. But what I want to point out is that I have examples of myself when this caregiver disappears in an unknown direction that they won't even be able to find. And after he disappeared into this apartment, there's no more, as they say, no more things, no more things. And the courts, unfortunately, can't do anything either, because this person has taken away this care of himself, because she's going, as they say, to steal the children, but not just the children. Another is when adults who are this age are taking care of me and there was a time when a person came to me as a national deputy, says, help my nephew become my guardian. Of course, I helped, but now he comes in and says the nephew sold everything, drank everything and kicked me out of the apartment. I go to court, and they say, “Whatever you want to do, do also. You asked him, as they say, to be a guardian.” Thus, in my view, it may be right, but it is still necessary to give consideration to the responsibilities of a person who does not fulfill his or her responsibilities. Did he not pass the water there, or did he sell everything from the apartment where he was, taking on these duties? Therefore, in our first reading, we certainly need to be supportive. But the problem is more acute than it is in a purely formal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u52	Please, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u53	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. For a year now, Ukrainians have complained about a difficult fate, saying that we are constantly at the crossroads of other people’s interests, so we are constantly hindered from developing; we are constantly forced to examine our relationship with the strong world of this. Take, for example, what is now going on in relations with Russia around the gas theme. We are forced to defend ourselves, and we are more often ineffective, remaining in our younger brother’s position. But where is the root of the problem? Perhaps we are not accustomed to owning our own land and constantly waiting, and we are still waiting for advice, support, guidance, and help. And when they gradually give up on interested parties, they usually try to remind us of our place. So first, we need to think about how to strengthen our positions, how to become strong. So the People's Block of Lithuania is deeply convinced that a truly strong society can only be represented by a large majority of strong, self-sufficient personalities, that is, those who are able to defend their rights and interests, while being tolerant and balanced. Of course, there must be an enabling environment that is firmly established in moral and legislative terms under the patronage of the State and under the control of civil society. In particular, it is vital that the younger generation have before them an example of self - sufficient personalities, and as a result, they form a beautiful society, a powerful state that is respected worldwide. And the most significant thing about this is the attitude of society in general, close and equal to orphans and half orphans. It was evidently the fate of these children to lose their parents, or parents would not be able to care for them. And if society is strong, if the state is really social and is put in service to its citizens, it will create the most favourable conditions for such children to feel at least discomfort. Of course, no one can make up for their loss and nothing can, but it can provide them with decent living conditions and protect them from possible pressures from whoever it is -- it's in ours with you, dear fellow citizens, honourable colleagues, forces. Thus, the Lithuanian People’s Block considers the Bill to be number 7689 to be perfectly right and to meet the needs of the day. We support this bill without any special attention or warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u54	Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. All right, we're done here, short-circuited procedure. They insist. Please, one minute from Corge Vitali, then Ivan the Rabbit. From the site, turn on the rabbit in one minute. And we'll vote. Please, Vitaly, tell me your microphone is on, maybe you're not there. They say your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u55	I'm sorry, thank you. Vitaly Corge, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill that we are discussing provides for the possibility of freeing a guardian or caregiver from his or her duties in the event of a violation of his or her property and housing rights. And that's very important. But we consider it appropriate to supplement the bill, in addition to housing and property rights, and also to release the guardian or guardian in the event of their violation of the rights of the defendant on
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u56	Ivan Hare, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u57	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. During the discussion, honourable deputies found two positions. Some say that the protection of the rights of natural persons under the protection of property and housing rights must be fixed or strengthened immediately. Others say that the child’s future should be considered and that the list should be extended to the full list of citizens. Because a child can and is entitled to health care, education. And if this caregiver or caregiver forgets about this child, the child will fall apart. So it seems to me that this formula for empowerment, it's going to be more appropriate, it's going to be more consistent with the nature of a humanistic, democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. If you don't mind, let's listen to Yuri Carmazin's proposal that we adopt this law in general as a law. There will be no objection. Then I vote for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 7689. [[on the responsibility of the custodian or custodian for the violation of the housing and property rights of the underprivileged]] Please vote. Ivan Alexandrovich, vote. [[11:19:48]] For 309 Thank you. The law is passed. Here we go to the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine, registration number 8017. [[on offences involving fines and confiscation]] The Deputy Finance Minister, Reguretic Vasil Vasilovitch, reports. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The government has proposed a bill to amend the Ukrainian Customs Code. This bill is designed to implement the measures. [[on anti-trafficking, approved by the State 'Contrabanda Stop' programme 2005-2006]] The bill proposes to amend some articles in the 18th chapter of the Customs Code, where certain offences involving imports of goods and means of transport into Ukraine’s customs territory are defined and penalties imposed. Today, the articles cited in the Customs Code provide for these offences to be fined or confiscated by a court of law. The bill provides for the introduction and introduction of a clearer definition of offences involving fines and the confiscation of goods and means of transport. The bill is proposed at the disposal of goods, means of transport under customs control, namely, the change in their status, use and management without the permission of the customs authority, the imposition of fines and the cancellation of the confiscation of property in these cases. The introduction of this standard is due to situations where the offence was committed in the form of alienation of the goods and means of transport. Therefore, it is not possible to confiscate them. In cases of breach of customs control procedures in simplified customs control zones, non-declaration of goods, and means of transport. It is proposed to limit the liability of citizens and officials, businesses merely by imposing a fine. Yet, for the same actions that have been taken again during the calendar year, a fine has been imposed for the confiscation of these goods and this property. In addition, the project proposes to increase responsibility for the commission of deliberate wrongdoing. Such as a breach of the obligation to re-export or re-import goods. Infringement of a transit obligation. The adoption of the law will allow for a clear identification of the number of offences committed by the external economic activity entity, which will result in the confiscation of property, improve the operation of external economic operators, and reduce the cost of the State budget for the storage and implementation of confiscated property. This bill does not change and does not affect the income of the State budget, so, honourable national deputies, the government is asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u60	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Budzigan Philip Philipovich, Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at its meeting on October 5, last year, reviewed the bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Code, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 8017. [[on offences involving fines and confiscation]] The bill is designed to define clearly in the Customs Code the circumstances under which the confiscation of goods for breach of customs rules should be applied. Let me remind you exactly what articles of the Customs Code are being amended and supplemented. Article 336. A fine of a hundred percent of the customs value is offered for the provision of goods, means of transport that are under customs duty without the permission of the customs authority. Article 339: For a violation of the customs control procedure in the simplified customs control corridors, there was a fine or confiscation in the current edition; a fine with the confiscation of the goods is proposed; and if he repeated such actions, a fine of 100 to 150 untaxed minimums with the confiscation of these goods. 340 articles: non-declaration of goods, means of transport, i.e. non-disclosure of precise information about goods, means of transport. Now there's a multiple fine or confiscation, and there's a minimum fine to do not 100, but 500 untaxed minimum income, to leave a thousand untaxed minimum incomes. Same fine and confiscation. Article 348, re-export, import of goods. It's a multiple fine or a confiscation. A multiple fine and confiscation of these goods is proposed. Article 349: Infringement of obligations regarding transit of goods, means of transport At present there is a fine or confiscation, a fine and confiscation are offered. Similarly, in principle, the substance of these changes is described in article 351, 352, 353. The same is true: a multiple fine, or a standard, or confiscation, and the confiscation is now in effect. The committee supported the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u62	Let's move on to the discussion. Short-term procedure. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the changes proposed by the government are coming out of the very policy of the President and the government, which is aimed at combating smuggling and will, at the same time, increase the responsibility for the fight against smuggling. But what I want to tell you is that while I was in the Odessa District, I was convinced that the forces of the tax police, the forces of the ordinary police, and the customs posts of smuggling, as they were, are moving on now. They continue to come here from the territory of Moldova, smoking, smoking, and alcohol. All of this continues to be brought from the territory of a friendly country, and I am confident that the authorities that are supposed to fight this fight are not yet properly fought. For the time being, we can only consider improving the legislative regulation of these positions aimed at combating smuggling. That is why the responsibility for the commission of deliberate offences, such obligations for re-exporting or re-importing, is increased by 348 articles. The breach of the transit obligation is 349 articles and actions aimed at moving goods hidden from customs control. According to the government, more than 40 million dollars are left over in customs warehouses. That is to say, it has increased ten times in the course of Operation Contraband Stop! and it turns out that the state is getting an additional problem. So I think it's perfectly correct to propose changes to the 336th, where the second part is introduced, to the 339th, where the second and third parts are also introduced, and to the 340th, where it's also about actions that are committed to non-declaration of goods and means of transport that are not repeated, not only are they punishable as fines, but they also provide for the confiscation of these goods and the confiscation of means of transport. I think it's an adequate way to react to smuggling. This law should be adopted in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Chevchuk. Yuri Solomatin. Santa Claus, please. Prepare Matthew's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u65	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. The draft amendments to the Customs Code have been prepared, as we already know, to meet the anti-trafficking requirements planned for 2005-2006. These changes in their time are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and they are of a positive nature in order to bring order to the border, in terms of movement, both on the one hand and on the other. The socialists certainly support the basic idea of combating smuggling by any legal means, of course, means and measures. But any opposition must be logical and must be free of volunteerism first. So socialists, once again, support the bill in the part where certain circumstances should apply to the confiscation of goods for breach of customs rules and fines. The project offers a clear definition of offences involving fines and those for which the confiscation of goods and means of transport is carried out. The adoption of this bill will certainly allow for a clear identification of the number of offences committed by the entities involved in the confiscation of goods, vehicles, and the reduction of abuses in the field of external economic activity. As a result of the nature of the offences, the liberalisation of responsibility for certain offences is certainly being introduced, so once again I am warning that the right of customs to fine themselves, to confiscate in smuggling without producing a customs mechanism is dangerous. We had this example with DAI. So we suggest that the socialists adopt this bill in the first reading and that we redraft it in the part where it is still necessary to produce a mechanism for customs action so that it does not lead to huge abuses and that we can simply compromise this good law, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u66	Sergey Matvienkov, please request a microphone from the site. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u67	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the Customs Code is one of the documents that has indeed undergone quite a number of changes recently, and there are indeed many issues that have not been addressed clearly and clearly today, which in turn lead to difficulties in the work. I understand very well how we all begin to interpret the law because it makes sense. But we also know other examples where specific prohibitions and measures are clearly stated in the law. And, unfortunately, they're not working today. We've already talked about stop smuggling, but unfortunately, whether she didn't understand it or she didn't hear it, and we're seeing the situation in the country with these moments. You're going to have a private conversation with all the boats, and they're going to tell you clearly the prescurant system that works so far, and how you need to get the goods right across the border, and what kind of system works here. Therefore, the law is good, it must, of course, be adopted, and clear measures must be put in place to act, but the opposite side also needs a system of responsibility for execution, both on the one hand and on the other. And the measure of responsibility must be here. If we twist the nut on one side, it has to twist on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u68	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u69	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Dear National Deputies! What does this bill offer us? We're offered to refocus the proceedings from confiscation to a fine. And you knew very well that the process of confiscation of customs procedures, of moving goods across customs borders, had developed before. Why? Because it was cheap to sell, it was possible for friends to sell that car or something, and it was all done. Now that they're starting to put order on customs, it's become clear that these rules of the game that they are today, they're holding back the business, they're holding back the business. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plushka supports proposals to shift the focus from confiscation to a fine. It has to be understood that there is an economic advantage in these measures, it has already been said that 36 million or 37 million dollars of confiscation cannot be sold, but the same goods must be stored, stored under customs control. In fact, customs are kept on customs, that is, customs are damaged and it is economically unfavourable. But there is a problem that has already been talked about here by the MPs, that there is a need for responsibility. From my point of view, customs procedures need to be improved, because a lot of violations happen, I'd say, unwittingly, a person is even losing control, they're pulling these people very hard, they're already tormented by all these papers and this attitude. It is therefore necessary to provide for improvements in customs procedures in the movement of goods across the customs border, including through transit. Otherwise there will be no responsibility of the other side, both entrepreneurs and others will feel in an unfavourable situation. So, I think this proposal is aimed at a certain kind of liberalisation, and in this case it should be welcomed. And the faction of our Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush will support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. But we're also going to propose proposals to balance interests so that we don't have problems on the other pole. Confiscat, you have to make a confiscation decision through a court of law. Otherwise we'll have other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u70	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine Act. [[on offences involving fines and confiscations]] Bill number 8017. Please vote. [[11:38:15.]] For 134 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 22, People's Party – 13, Block of Timoshenko – 4, Socialists – 25, National Block of Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 6, National Movement – 10, “Reforms and Order” – 10, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 2, “One Ukraine” -1, non-fractional – 4. Yes, perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? Mr. Stanislav Ivanovich, please head of the committee. Gurenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u71	Gurenko, Communist faction, Head of the Economic Policy Committee. I would like to point out that this proposal was made by the government of Timoshenko. The Timoshenko faction gave him four votes and no charge, because the Customs Code5x, in principle, prescribed everything, including confiscation solely for the court’s decision. And now we're offered fines and confiscations, covering it up with such a wall that we can split it now. Who's going to split up? The same customs officer. Therefore, respectable colleagues must comply with the requirements of the Customs Code. And it was rightly said here to the colleague of Matthew. We need everyone to know that the Customs Code needs to be implemented. That's it. We propose to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Since I have already made an offer, I will put it to the vote. Please make up your mind. Who is it to send him back to the first reading? [[11:40:25]] For-68 It's half the size of the first vote. Thus, the bill was withdrawn. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 77691, is under consideration. [[about the distribution of films]] The report will be made by Lichévý Igor Dmitrovitch. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u73	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, designed to protect information space from non-licensed film production. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography and the Regulation on State Certificate of the Right to Distribution and Demonstrate Films. All films that go to Ukraine’s movies should be certified for rent. If such a certificate is not available, then it is in line with article 164. 6, 164. 7 The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for the Distribution of Films provides for administrative responsibility. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the local film administrations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, with the participation of representatives of the National Council of Ukraine in the field of television and radio, the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Department of Education and Science, the State Department. Regrettably, however, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism does not have the resources to hold violators accountable for their demands and regulations, especially for diapers and video markets, which is why they have not been able to improve the situation significantly. Therefore, in order to have an effective impact on the situation, it is necessary to amend article 255 of the Code and to give the right to report administrative offences on the television market and the home video market to state-owned institutions, such as film administrations when distributing and displaying films on film and video networks, to the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board in the distribution and demonstration of films on television channels. The adoption of the bill will clearly define the mechanism for monitoring compliance with the requirements of current legislation for the distribution and demonstration of films, and will ensure that the information space is cleared from non-licensive film production. The implementation of the law does not require additional material and other costs. Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u74	Thank you, Igor Dmitrovitch, sit down, please. There's no one from the committee? Then we'll discuss it. Please, Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Chevchuk. Anisim. Anisimo is, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. Dear National Deputies! The issue of the protection of social morality and the mechanism for the realization of this right is absolutely correct today. The government and offices of persons in places today do not really have all the authority to protect social morality today. The authorities of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting fail to handle their responsibilities and see their main task in the distribution of licences and the redistribution of the market, especially after the revolution or after the arrival of those or other officials to power. So it's clear that they don't want to do that -- and they need to make changes to the Administrative Code, to the Code of Administrative Offences. As I looked at today’s agenda, Adam Ivanovich, I did not understand why we continued our meetings for a week, and you convinced us here that it was necessary to work this week in the sessional mode to consider these manipush endings? Adam Ivanovich, let's say there's cheating and manipulating public opinion on the side of several factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u76	Yuri Anatolyevich, talk on the subject!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u77	I mean, you just don't like the subject, Adam Ivanovich, and others don't like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u78	Then give up your words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u79	I won't say no. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm saying it's also for the people of today's horror. And a demonstration of horror movies, when they want to see what new changes are being proposed here, and we tell them that here we have changes to 255 articles of the Administrative Code, about the administrative violation. Yes, there is a need to record now that monitoring of the conditions of distribution, demonstrations of films envisaged for the rolling licence are carried out by both Mincultures and local authorities of cinematography in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities: Kiev, Sevastopol, and the involvement of law enforcement authorities. Yes, there is a need to write down now that there will be the administrations of the cinematography of article 164. 6 in part of the screening and distribution of films without a government permit for the distribution and demonstration of films. But, honourable government officials, don't you understand that the state permit for distribution and screening of films was approved by the Government on March 28, 2001, is limited to the fact that you grant yourself rights as a legislator. So let us introduce this position into the Law. Come on. For this is, in fact, the law that is binding upon all, and the position is not the law. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u80	Yes, Your Honor, I'm reacting to criticism, but the laws we're all considering, Yuri Anatoliyovich, introduced by the government you've been supporting. Yes, Anisimov, please prepare for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u81	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Anisimov 30th constituency, the city of Dniprožinsk, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. He has to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote and support this bill, but this bill has been delayed for about 15 years in our country. But as they say it's not done, everything is done for the better. As early as 1984, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Code of Administrative Offences and this Code protected the rights and freedoms of citizens, property, the constitutional system of Ukraine, the rights and legitimate interests of enterprises, institutions, organizations and so on, and so on. The proposed bill proposes to detail the authority of the administration of cinematography and the National Council of Ukraine on the issue of television and radio broadcasting in the drafting of administrative delinquency protocols. That's a positive fact. The authorities of the cinematography will have the right to draw up protocols when administrative offences are detected, as provided for in the following articles of the code. Article 164-6. In part of the screening and distribution of films without a government license for distribution and screening of films and motion pictures. Article 164-7. In a part of the violation of the terms and conditions of distribution and demonstration of films envisioned by the government's right to distribute and display movies on film and video networks. Article 164-8. Same thing. Part of not getting the quota for national movies, using national screen time in movies and video networks. The only thing I'm going to deny is that we haven't seen our Ukrainian films in a long time. What our film network will compete with is not clear enough either. The adoption of this project will help to ensure control by special authorized government authorities, as well as to protect moral principles and promote a healthy lifestyle in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u82	Oleg Zarubinski, please. The next one is Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u83	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. One of America's famous social and political figures once noted that Hollywood movies in America are only watched by foreigners and idiots. I can't quite agree with this, because there are actually works of art in Hollywood movies, but it does happen that in our cinematography, our TV and cinema are not really the ones that are the acquisitions of cinema. As it has been, every normal Ukrainian asks himself, not to mention parents who cannot protect their children by themselves from modern television, which in Ukraine today has been a decisive factor in the process of shaping a human personality and has replaced the misanthropic propaganda of violence with the age-old and humanistic values of Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian tradition. Certainly only a sales official today can be afraid of this, so the Lithuanian People’s Block welcomes the introduction of a bill that proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, namely, to regulate the conditions for the distribution of films in Ukraine. Very close to the programming principles of the People's Block of Lithuania is the purpose of this bill to ensure effective control of the distribution of film and video production in Ukraine in order to protect moral principles and establish a healthy lifestyle. One factor on the way to achieving this goal is, in our view, the really inescapable compliance with the quota for the demonstration of national, native films in the use of national screen time on film and video networks. Infringement is a responsibility. Responsibility provided for in the draft law as well as for violations of the terms and conditions of distribution and demonstration of films according to the state's license for distribution and demonstration of films on the channels of speech, Ukrainian television. The Lithuanian People's Block supports the conclusion of our parliamentary expert office and calls for the results of the first reading of this bill to be adopted as a basis, because, once again, I would like to stress, we believe that it is a positive, this law will have an impact on the reduction in the number of non-licensive and immoral movies and videos, and this will, of course, contribute to the protection of moral principles and the establishment of a healthy way of life in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Sergei Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u85	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! I think it's really time for us to get on the air. Because the system of moral education of the growing generation, the system of spirituality that is now in the country, has long required serious intervention. What our children are raised to do today, what affects the minds of young people today, what affects the minds of adolescents, it cannot help but worry us, and in some way it must be regulated, in some way it must be dosed and there must be a shelter. But sometimes we have to think about that somewhere and our emotional prohibitions and statements, they must have some economic basis and some economic levers. How do you do that? Not only can we say that we can't do that, but we can do that. Today, unfortunately, no one has thought about the fact that we, on the one hand, lock up the television companies, put them in a certain frame of reference and say that we cannot do that. But on the other hand, who's going to answer the question of how to survive regional television companies, if you're going to rent an hour of film today, it's between $20 and $50, provided you re-show it once. How can the economy of this television company be worth it if the central media is able to turn to advertising, such as everyone, including political media. How to survive here, how to build your business, how to build your economy? Here they go into questionable latrines, take a questionable quality of the film, and spin incomprehensible things to ensure their survival. And when you start talking to them, don't you realize that you lose the morale of an adult generation with these films? Yeah, we understand, but how do we build an economy? So let's take a look at the problem on this side. That's the first one. Second. When we close down, here we put a condition on who is responsible for the quality of the products we are proposing, I mean not only the internal content of quality, but also the technical content. When a television company picks up a disk, it is not able to run it on the road because it is recorded in an incomprehensible way through which hands, incomprehensible where and incomprehensible on which equipment. Next moment. If we are to say that we are prepared and placed within a certain framework, having subtitles of translations that should be in the films, then we must require that from the producers of the films who produce and sell this product to be ready. That is, there should be control not only of the television companies, but also of the control of this unit, which is now implementing the product, that it is centrally purchasing, that it is taking it for a ride. And how he will raise our growing generation today. Because, indeed, we have been looking at the faction today, and no one has any doubt that it is necessary to engage in the spiritual education of an adult generation. But the levers must be really effective. Otherwise, conversations will remain conversations. The bill can be adopted on first reading. But you have to think seriously about the problems I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u86	Thank you. Question completed. Yes, no one insists on the procedure. We'll vote. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Distribution of Films. Registration number 7691. Please vote. [[11:57:37]] For 293 The law is passed. The factions, please. Rather, the first reading was accepted. The 52-region faction, Communist 52, Our Ukraine 34, People's Party 35, Block Timoshenko 16, Socialist Party 27, Block Lithuania 21, Social Democratic Party 3, Ukrainian People's Party 9, Rebirth Party 4, People's Movement of Ukraine 15, Reforms and Orders 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs 6, "One Ukraine" 0, non-fractional, 7. [[united]] Maybe we'll take it as a law? No objections? The minister's asking, too. Then let us vote as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Distribution of Films. Registration number 7691. Please vote. We vote friendlyly for 300. [[11:58:56]] For 259. The law is passed. We have every reason to take a break with you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u87	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. We have come to such decisions. I would like to say right away that these proposals from the main issues are supported by the President of Ukraine, who has been consulted today. First, everyone needs to stop on the basis of admitting the fact that the decision of the Supreme Council has taken place and rejecting comments that do not appease but only undermine Ukrainian society. Dear colleagues, the President will come on Thursday, you ask him, he'll tell you. Yes, the other one. Continue the work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have now agreed on a consensus board that we will move away from politics and seek on the basis of what we need to maintain. The second is that we continue to work, including on those bills that will be proposed by the President and the government, particularly those relating to the WTO. I'd like to ask the committees now, if they're prepared for consideration, we have to look at them today and tomorrow. Others who will be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, I would like to ask the committees to give them their opinions promptly. Next thing we know, it's a deal. On Thursday, by inviting the President of Ukraine to meet with him to discuss the interaction of the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Suggestions were made either in open or in closed mode. I think it's the Supreme Council on this issue that can be determined just before the issue begins. The president of Ukraine also supported the consideration of this issue. We also agreed that, following a decision of the Conciliation Council, I would go to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office to analyse the statements that have been made recently, as was the case at the moment of crisis in November-December 2004 on their compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, so that on Thursday the leaders of these law enforcement agencies could provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as to how the actions of certain politicians and officials relate to the current legislative base of Ukraine. At the same time, we also agreed that we should move on to a practical solution to the question of the formation of the Constitutional Court and the admission of the judges of the Constitutional Court to an oath. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions were invited to serve almost 12 candidates for positions, 14 of whom were sorry, to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court. We agreed that now, the Secretariat and the Committee on Legal Policy will prepare documents for these candidates, they will be distributed to MPs and groups, so that each faction and group can be identified. If not, offer your candidacy. After that, we can go along the same path, your honorary colleagues: to be in the session room after the presentation of the candidates who want to see and hear the national MPs, the ratings vote, and those who will receive the most support, to be transferred to the ballot to be elected by the judges of the Constitutional Court. After we make this decision, there will be no more clues, no more hooks to avoid the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And then we'll have to decide the issue of swearing to the judges of the Constitutional Court. The performer has the right and the right to represent himself fully when dealing with the matter. This is an appropriate explanation when this point was made. So it's okay here. These are, in principle, the main arrangements reached at the meeting of the Conciliation Council. So, dear colleagues, we have every reason to be able to continue our work productively. Please sign up for motive, come on. So that we don't have any objections that anyone can't come forward. 10 minutes, please, let's exchange our thoughts. All I would ask is, dear colleagues, to refrain from political evaluations and political labels in particular, and to the extent possible. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the motivations, 10 minutes per minute of the main factions and groups that are here in the session. Please, on board: Chicanov Sergey, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u88	The Communist faction, Sergey Chickanov. Dear colleagues, in addressing all the issues raised at the Supreme Council session, we must, in fact, pay attention to those statements made by the current officials, which allow themselves to inflame, in fact, an inter-national, inter-State gap that they are trying to impose in Ukraine before the elections. And the Supreme Council in this regard today represents one of the most stable political institutions in society, which is indeed looking to the future. We would, for example, suggest that the Government and the President consider the question of the resignation and acting Minister for Foreign Affairs for the instigation of an inter-State, inter-State discord and other officials who are allowing themselves to make statements that are totally unattached in the legal field of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u89	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u90	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, of course, thank you for your clarification. Although, especially during the election campaign, there is nowhere to be written — not mainly by law or by other laws — for politicians to comment on what they see and what is in conflict with legislation that is valid. Nevertheless, there is a great tragedy for the people when there is one thought in Parliament between 250 and 270 people, and in millions there are 30, 40 thoughts slightly different. Then the people have the right to correct. However, nowhere else does the law say that we must lead to the oath of all the judges of the Constitutional Court. Think of the story with Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. He entered the hall, and you swore one or two, or whatever it took. So again, I don't see a breach of legislation here. And it's literally over. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you want to make peace. But there are 87 articles of the Constitution, there are 115 articles of the Constitution. And you, as a historian, as a lawyer, can't help but understand, or we write an honest story.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u91	Yes. We agreed I wouldn't comment. I'd just like to see it.: to the disfellowshipped powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 85, paragraph 12. To be honest with you. To be honest, it's fair. Catherine Vasuk, please, the faction of the People's Party. I'm sorry to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Jeremiah Igor Mironovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u93	Jeremiah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think it's the only informed, reasonable decision we could make today. I would very much like to ask those political forces that are fueling this hostility in society today to understand that we have a state behind us, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people behind us. And if someone can't work constructively, it's necessary to stop, cool off, analyze what mistakes have been made, what you need to do in the near future and move on. That's why the proposal that is from both the President and the Supreme Council today is the only right position that can be consolidated today, both in power and in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u95	Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Please give it to Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u97	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The fact that the Ukrainian Parliament has recently become a target for political attacks is understandable. But the BUT faction began to be approached by individual citizens who said that the plans of individual political forces were going to lead to the maximum absurdity of the parliament’s entourage. We have learned about the preparation of actions to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, about the preparation of groups of fighters who are facing the task of siege of parliament, invasion of the session hall, power cuts, window beatings, expulsion of national MPs and other illegal acts. It's called even the budget of this stock, and I'd like to ask Mr. Lucenka here to take care of this budget in those plans. It is clear that parliamentarians will not act like frightened children, either, and they will resist the challengers. That is why we call on Parliament's leadership and law enforcement authorities to warn this Sabbath and that we do not allow the image of Ukraine to fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u99	Yes, Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u100	I ask you to give my word to Rudzkowski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u101	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u102	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we need to worry. There's a socialist minister sitting in the government bed, and he's going to provide order around the Supreme Council and a normal job, but, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, we're going to pour crocodiles tears about the fact that the Supreme Council is being watered down, that someone said something wrong. I really believe that the unconstitutional statements made by high-holders about what reform has entered into force and will be unlawfully abolished should be evaluated. But you've made this mess with the government's resignation. So it is not necessary to translate into the entire Supreme Council and all the national deputies for this responsibility. Everyone knew that it was destabilizing the political situation and that it wasn't a solution to the issue for a week to the Supreme Council. You can do it for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike some officials, I don't sign a decision under the table. I signed the decision made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you didn't vote, it's your personal matter. But with the same success, I signed a decision that was made on the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of Janukovic, for which you voted. Yeah, I don't think there's anything to cry about right now. Please, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u104	I ask you to give the word to Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u105	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u106	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition bloc “No!” [[united]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think that a perfectly correct decision has to be taken to calm both society and the hot heads that today are in the executive branch of government. I think that the hysteria that is suppressed in society by showing other enemies to the electorate, and among those enemies are both the Supreme Council, and the Russian Federation, and all those MPs that vote differently to the authorities, in fact, such a course of events will allow them to consolidate society. I think it's necessary, after all, to take advantage of the possibility of turning to PARE, the OSCE, that in Ukraine today attempts are being made to discredit parliamentaryism. Because of our deputies, it is possible to bring this view to the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask, we'll figure it out without PARE, without everyone here inside the country. Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u108	Stepan Cloud, Ukrainian People’s Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Why, as they say, was there a city to build, it clearly contradicts 87 articles of the Constitution. And you, too, should adhere to the Constitution and not sign this decree and there would be no destruction and no waste of time. I propose, let us invite tomorrow the judges of the Constitutional Court who are appointed by the President's quota and elected by the council of judges, and let them take an oath here tomorrow. And we're going to have a viable Constitutional Court tomorrow, which is going to be an arbitrator. And all the problems are solved. And you don't need political speculation around your unconstitutional decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u109	Yes. Gennady Udovenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think what we held today and agreed to, and invited the President to meet with us, that's fine. And it's going to contribute really to the relief of the tension that we're experiencing right now. I cannot agree with the criticism of the foreign minister, I think the foreign minister is conducting a balanced policy, a foreign policy course aimed at protecting our national interests. We have finally begun to think that there is a need to protect national interests. There are no eternal enemies, no eternal friends. The national interests of the State are eternal. And I would also ask for greater tolerance to be shown to the foreign minister in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u111	Mikhailo Kosov, “Reforms and Order”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u112	Mikhailo Kosov, “Pora” Civil Block, “Reforms and Order” Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I am the ninth, and from the speeches of my previous colleagues, you have certainly convinced yourself that your noble appeal not to politicize the situation and not to comment is not justified. Although I think it would be useful to really invite the President and the government to talk to them in this room. However, how can I refrain from commenting on what happened when I was one of the authors of the Constitution and I know very well that, according to the previous Constitution, the government that was sent to resign is called fulfilling its duties. But according to the current Constitution, article 115 of the Government, which the Supreme Council has resigned, continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thus we have no differences; he continues to carry out his duties as provided for in article 115. Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. The draft Law amending the Criminal Code on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights is being announced. Reporter Yuri Lucenko. Kalestin Valeriy Vasilovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u114	Dear Lord Chairman! Deputies, present! Taking advantage of the possibility, I would like to immediately state that the provocative publication in the Kiev News, which has spread information on the preparation of the blockade and the capture of the Supreme Council by the Ministry of Internal Affairs specialises, is exclusively provocative and aimed at destabilizing the situation in Ukraine. And I'm going to repeat again from this high rostrum that as a minister of the interior, I will do everything I can to ensure that the police, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, ensure normal elections to the Supreme Council and, of course, no police officer can think of illegal capture of the Supreme Council or the use of any illegal form of pressure on national MPs. At the same time, I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs, now, unfortunately, he's not in this room, not to spread a rumor that Minister Lucenko is abusing students there to shoot or capture. I think you all know how tolerant I am, a peace-loving person in my post. Now for the agenda. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The need to adopt this bill is due to the existence of a number of problematic issues in the protection of intellectual property rights that need to be addressed at the legislative level. Today, criminal responsibility for crimes in intellectual property comes with the task. a material damage of 17,000 dollars and 87,000 dollars. [[Part One]] [[part of each other]] And the penalties provided for in these articles range from three to 17 or from 17 to 30 thousand. That's right. So today it's an inadequate criminal punishment for the extent of the damage that's being done. In addition, with the new legislation in force, the minimum amount of material damage caused by criminal responsibility will increase and will amount to at least 40,000 in 2007. The first part and the 200 grand. The money's on the other side. Thus, there has been a situation where criminal administrative legislation does not provide the necessary level of protection of intellectual property rights in accordance with the requirements of a multilateral agreement on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights. To put it simply, I want to draw the attention of the distinguished national MPs: every year the damage that comes with criminal responsibility changes. Imagine today it has reached more than 800 bracelets, that is, every day you can steal a bicycle, a protein that is anything, and it is not a criminal responsibility. The same was true of the protection of intellectual property rights. Ten times since January last year, there has been an increase in the damage caused by a criminal case. So we're asking you to adjust this thing. This will give much more room for order in the intellectual property market and for the protection of the rights that we guaranteed by international agreements and by Ukraine's internal laws. The secretariat of the Supreme Council and the profile committees supported the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. What? Well, we're going with a reduced procedure. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Have a seat. From Valérie Vasilovich Kelestin, please head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u116	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honorary Collegiate, Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, registration No. 8068. The bill aims to improve the protection of intellectual property rights, which require a legislative solution by amending articles 176, 177, and 229 of the Criminal Code, which have significant substantive shortcomings. The bill proposes to take responsibility for damage to a large extent, reducing the lower limit of damage to 20 untaxed minimums. And the second is to increase the responsibility for damage tasks in large and particularly large sizes. The conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office: recommending the results of the first reading to adopt the bill on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on the basis of comments and suggestions made. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u117	Thank you for the clear position of the committee. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss the matter? Please sign up for the discussion of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski. We need two to go, two to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, using what has been returned to the Supreme Council, I would like to address you, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, with the request that you make the decision that I have proposed: to cancel the unconstitutional decision to resign the government -- here to the day-to-day, put to the vote, accept -- and cancel, let's not make a joke. We broke the Rules, the Constitution is broken. Let's call it off. That's the first one. And the second. Speaking of comments -- I can't comment like this, I'm not the Chief of the Supreme Council, not present at all the conciliatory boards, and I don't have the media -- you said you didn't see the decision on the profile committee. I would like to remind you that, on the resignation of the Head of State, they've offered to look at and make a statement on the identity committee right now. Give exactly the same commission. Make a decision for each other. I'm asking you to make a correct move, not only to your suggestions or to your political relatives' proposals, but also to the proposals of my political power, in this case, the Jury Karmazin Block, in this case, in the case of many other political forces. Now, with regard to the specific proposals that are before this law, before amending the Criminal Code. They would be unnecessary and impossible if we did not accept completely unagreed proposals to articles 176, 177, 229 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in May 2003. On that occasion, I warned you that we were doing an unrighteous thing. I warned you that we're making a small difference from the Code of Administrative Offence. You didn't listen, you accepted in the first reading, then in the second reading, you made changes to the criminal code, and without an expertise, they went into effect. What happened now? I've already spoken to the Minister of Internal Affairs, I've spoken to him three times, I'm talking again. Yuri Vitaliyovich, in Kharkiv, there was an incorruptible thing on December 8, I say, stressing the unconscionable employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kharkiv, where 15 computers were removed from the Kharkiv Institute of Hygiene Research and Occupational Disease Prevention, where tuberculosisers, everyone else. About 200,000 people back there on their computers on December 8th didn't return computers, sort of because they were using Microsoft software, in one of them. The state institution, the budgetary institution, the poor institution, the medical institution, they remove computers, and we work for Microsoft. I would like to point out that all these militias receive money from the Ukrainian budget, from Ukrainian taxpayers, not from Microsoft.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u119	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Your right to speak. Mikhailo Rodionov will be next. From where? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm still asking everyone to pay close attention to this law. This Law was passed by a government signed by Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko at the time. When we were in a hurry to join the World Trade Organization in 2005. In view of the fact that we have adopted the Intellectual Property Act and you remember how we said that the United States of America will sign a protocol with Ukraine after the adoption of the Law. And Ukraine can join the World Trade Organization in 2005. Despite the fact that we passed that law, protecting intellectual property, but the Americans didn't sign the protocol. We're talking about what if we are. And we're moving on. We propose this law, we have an administrative offence for intellectual property. If someone released either a disk or something, passed it on to someone else, we've already got three thousand pennies of punishment for a person, an administrative offense. And we're proposing by this law that a three to seven-year sentence be imposed so that a person can be put in jail for being released. And all of this is subordinated, I'm reading in an explanatory note that this will contribute to the fact that if we don't adopt this law, it won't contribute to Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. So what do we want to do, put all our Ukrainian talent in a prison that deals with computers, intellectual products? We do not want our young talented people to always be criminally responsible. Some nations, including China, have so far not adopted any legislation that would hold a citizen responsible for intellectual property. I think that this law should be adopted for normalization, but except for the fact that there is a three-to-seven-year detention in prison. Financially, you can punish. But to put people in prison for wanting to get knowledge or even using non-licensed programs is considered useless. Therefore, I believe that it is only possible to vote with the exception of criminal liability for maintenance from three to seven years.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u121	Mikhailo Rodionov, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u122	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I would like to draw attention to the following: Well, number one, the Communist faction believes that this law cannot be voted for, and that is why. Well, relatively small reason, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you said there was a legal committee. Earlier, as I recall, the committee on intellectual property was a committee on science and education. He didn't even get on that committee. But God is with her. We're not so proud. Second moment. With regard to promotion or decline, so to speak, the damage caused by criminal liability. Well, you might think there's some sort of justification. There is absolutely no justification. The only reason is that it's 23,000 200 easier to divide by 10 and it's 2,000 320. But can't intellectual property or intelligence just be that it's easier to divide? So that's why we went down this border 10 times? Why not 20 times, why not 7, why not 8? In the past time, after almost all legislation on compliance with Ukrainian legislation with TRIPS requirements has been adopted, no paper on how this is done in Ukraine has been analysed, as is currently the case with intellectual property violations. This is not about bicycles and motorcycles. A bicycle and a motorcycle is property as such. So, for intellectual property, we can plant for seven years, if a man, there, did 2,000 320 damage, and if a man incurs an entire factory and makes millions of losses, he can't be planted at all. He'll walk like he walked. This is the second moment. The third point is the lack of this legislation. Ukraine is not the only one living by the fact that the rights must be respected either in prison or in prison. There is a large programme that provides for how to educate citizens, children, schoolchildren in respect of intellectual property rights, and nothing is done. Therefore, the Communist faction believes that it will replace the multifaceted work with intellectual property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u123	Oleg Zarubinski, please microphone. You don't? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u124	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! When I got acquainted with Bill No. 8068, I immediately remembered the words known to all of you from the historical writing of Ukraine, “The Word of the Igorvi Regiment”. “The earth is rich and there is no order in it.” The earth is truly rich because God has given it not only the beautiful black earth and the rich resources of beneficial fossils, but its main wealth is people, people, and the work of these people. You can, by the way, be proud of the civilizational contribution of our ancestors, who made a trip and a tripartite sigma and much more. At present, respected colleagues are forced to consider that one in three, I emphasize, every third of the inventions that have been made in the past few decades in Canada or Australia belong to our former compatriots. It is not a secret that the same intellectual power of the former Soviet Union was greatly forged by Ukrainians. So really, when we talk about ways that can strengthen order in our country, in a good sense, we obviously talk about what we have to respect not only the material products of human activity, the activities of our people, but also the intellectual products. For decades, we've been explaining that it's wrong to steal something material -- a bride or a bread or a bicycle, and when you steal intellectual gains, it was thought to be normal. To my conviction, to convince our political team, the shortest way in this case to improve the situation can really be to raise public interest in the development of the sphere of intelligence, to the state level of interest in the development of intellectual property. Because the civilized world has been working on a regulatory base for over 200 years that allows for the equitable use and respect of human intelligence as the fruits of its work, inventions, new developments in information technology, and so forth. When the main capital, such as social progress, is socially meaningful information. Thus, the Lithuanian People’s Block considers the very idea laid down in Bill No. 8068 quite right. We propose to support this bill in the first reading and to think about it in preparing for the second reading really with specific forms of punishment. We think that this bill is just part of a very important initiative in regulating the intellectual work that the state is taking in a kind of hasty and reluctant way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been discussed. Registration number 8068 has been completed. A closing word to the acting minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but perhaps I did not explain exactly what the bill was about, and you didn't have time to look at it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all criminal sanctions do not apply to those who use non-licensed discs, for example, they are only punishable by fines, warnings, removals and so on. Those who organize underground workshops and release them illegally release the discs receive tremendous income. In the past year, the police removed a million disks and cassettes that were made by pirates. Criminal responsibility may be applied to these organized groups benefiting from an illegal release. To everyone else, fines are only fines. It doesn't matter to the WTO, because for the WTO, this law already exists, we're just changing one measure or another of sanctions. That's why I'm paying attention to you. It's not logical for our talented young people to draw fake dollars. So let's ask another question. It's unacceptable. We need to protect copyrights, including our scientists. And you have to bring responsibility to those who made it underground, shadowy, without paying taxes on business. That's why I'm asking this law to be passed, and I'm asking you to connect the entire intelligence of the Supreme Council for its polishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal and the government is asking for a basis. Let's take it as a base, and then we'll work on this project. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 8968. [[on the protection of intellectual property rights]] Please vote. Z-244. Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff is being announced for consideration, registration number 7609. [[on cellulose]] Reporter Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u128	Dear National Deputies! The authors of Bill 7609 on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff were of the opinion that the issue of classification of goods, the conduct of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity and taxation of import duties and value added tax were regulated mainly by the Customs Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, the Single Customs Tariff, the Tax on Added Costs, the State Support for the Bookstore in Ukraine. [[King, Yankovsky, Budzigan]] As we took care of the State support for the book - making business in Ukraine, we adopted a law on 20 November 2003 that was freed from VAT on imports into Ukraine of cellulose from wood, onion or sulfate, other than dissolved varieties, semi-bleached or bleached, of wetlands. Code 47032000000. The authors propose in article 19, paragraph “O, ” of the Ukrainian Law “On the One Customs Tariff, ” the figures and the words “47032000000. ” Cellulose from wood, natronic or sulfate, other than dissolved varieties, unbleached from ripening rock, replace with the words under this code “Cellulose from wood, onion or sulfate, other than dissolved varieties, semi-bleached or bleached from ripening rock. [[Underlining]] When we adopt this bill, we remove ambiguity in the given commodity position when the code corresponds to one commodity and the descriptive part to another. So we can really help the bookstore industry, and let's not say that, in the form of the release of books on Ukraine, there was a cellulose that didn't, in principle, have anything to do with it, and let this kind of product be imported under another code under Ukrainian legislation to produce paper, books and cardboard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u129	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. From the committee to Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga’s report. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u130	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting on November 1, 2005, discussed a bill by Ukraine amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the One Customs Tariff, introduced by the members of the Supreme Council of the Kingdom and Jankowski. [[Registration number 7609]] The bill was drafted in the context of ensuring the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Bookkeeping in Ukraine and foresees amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff with the aim of eliminating the inadequacy of the product description referred to in it for code 47032000000. It means that cellulose from the wood is tonic or sulfate, except for solubility, semi-bleached or bleached, of the tumultuous nature of the product description for this code in the customs tariff of Ukraine. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of 25 November 2005, the bill is worthy of support and can be based on the comments and suggestions made. In the view of the committee, the adoption of the bill will allow tax legislation to be implemented in support of the public record - keeping business in Ukraine in part of the use of certain goods that are not produced in our country but are used in publishing activities or activities related to the production of books. The committee therefore decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the committee's report is done. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction. Next is Michael Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. The honourable national MPs, starting to consider this bill in general, had to inform us of the contents of the decision of the Ukrainian Customs Council on this point, on which, pursuant to article five of the Ukrainian Law of 1992 on the sole customs tariff, a review of the drafts on customs-tariff regulation has been submitted. So first we need to be informed about the conclusion, then we need to think about how to make decisions. This should be a prerequisite for considering such bills. With regard to its consideration without it, if we are not yet told how the Customs Tariff Council has decided: whether it has considered or not, then the customs tariff of the commodity code referred to corresponds to the description: Cellulose of the wood on the toll or sulfate, other than the soluble varieties, is half-bleached or bleached from the ripples, which is exactly the same as the one proposed in article 19 of the Law on the Only Customs Tariff of Mrs. Kzaryov, Jankowski, Budzigan. I mean, it's a decision to make. This bill can be considered and adopted both in the first reading and in general. The only one. What do we have to figure out: Will there be a note here, or will there be no loss to the state? If they will, how important they will be. As to the conclusion that the Ministry of Economics has sent us, the Ministry of Economics, without reference to the Customs Tariff Council, has reported that it is appropriate to support the bill tabled by the People's Deputies. And they think it's going to be a positive decision. So I also think that by examining this bill, which can be adopted both in the first reading and in general. This will contribute to the development of the book - making work in the country. I see that, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, you do not want to give a mandate to the committees that are in line with my decision, which I gave regarding the inadequacy of the Constitution and the rules of the Supreme Council, the decision on the so-called, resignation of the Government, because we do not have the right to resign, we only have the right to declare mistrust of the Government. So I ask you once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give a protocol commission to the committees to consider the ruling and put it in order tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, since Yuri Anatoliyevich is a very punctual and well-known man, I would like to make a point, considering that you are making a second observation. One minute, the commission to the committees has gone away, but I would like to remind you that the decision on the urgent consideration of the draft decision concerning Sergey the Chief of Staff has been taken by the Supreme Council, not by the Chief of Staff. I'd like to keep that in mind. I don't have any more of those assignments. Thank you. Please. I gave the order, I gave it to him. Yuri Anatolyevich, I gave the commission. Thank you. Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u134	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, faction of Moroz, Kirovograd. In 2003, the Supreme Council passed a well - known Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding State support for the publishing work in Ukraine. It's a really good law, it's a good law. This law was exempt from tax on the added value of an import operation into the customs territory of Ukraine of cellulose and wood for this purpose. The proposed bill, which we are considering, harmonizes with the product classification code, changes to the description of the goods under the relevant codes. All of this needs to be done in order to be in the accounting system. The Socialists agree with these positions and will support the bill in this direction. But the problem is acute. The Supreme Council is doing everything to make the production of the book. At first glance, this is a humane approach. But only at first sight. For we will come to the market of books and see what educational, moral, spiritual, educational, and educational character is set forth in the contents of those books that are presented in the market. Most of them are being promoted and raised by violence, fornication, and the increased acquisition that the Ukrainian people have acquired in many years. And on which paper these books are printed, and where tax is taxed. Therefore, when we meet the publishers of the book, we are obliged to make demands, not business, on the front of the book, for we will lose the most precious things in our society. The current problem is also the printing of textbooks for schools, PTUs, and universities. Again, it's on the same paper that goes to a large extent. The Minister of Education, socialist Nikolayenko, has obtained almost full support from the 1-5 class textbooks. This process continues with the next transition to 12-year education. In 2005-2006, the prices for textbooks did not increase, but the prices for paper did increase. This is certainly the credit of a socialist named Nikolaynka, but not the stewards, of course, of paper. And that's 7 million pieces of textbooks. So socialists support the bill with three warnings. First, after customs, there must be a mechanism to control the price of paper. Second, taxes should be entered regarding the bookkeeping of such books. And lastly, textbooks for students should not be expensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u135	Yuri Solomatin, please, your right to speak. Next up will be Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction supports the draft bill in the first reading, and in fact, it is almost all said because it is aimed at organizing state support for the bookstore. I fully agree with the previous speaker in the part that we need to combine financial and material support for the book’s publishing work with its spiritual contents, when these same books and when these same textbooks are doing a review of our history and are celebrating, if you will excuse me, U.N. UPA’s soldiers as liberators of Ukraine, it seems that such a book - publishing business and supporting such a book - publishing business in Ukraine is not necessary. So I would like to say, first of all, to the minister of science and education, that he finally has to be determined in his spiritual and cultural preferences, whether he is a representative of our common history of all our people, or of a particular part of our nation, which is currently reviewing our history and is essentially betraying our common history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u137	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u138	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Analyzing the proposed draft law, a vivid, completely unconventional statement by the publishers of the Capranov brothers at the parliamentary hearings held in the Supreme Council on April 20, this year. It is a pity that the legislators, my colleagues, tend to ignore these hearings, or else this flaming talk, built on a deep analysis of the situation in the country’s bookstore, would at least be remembered, or might touch deep spiritual strings, and would then arouse a desire to change things for the better in this regard. In fact, Bill 7609. The first and very principled question is: There can be no such terrible imbalance in the book - production market that shows no benefit to the native producer. Who's to blame? Regrettably, we have to say again: The State. Since, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, it is the State itself that must care for the preservation, multiplication and development of national spiritual treasures, not to reflect all possible methods on the part of the publishers. Unfortunately, you won't call them today. A growing Ukrainian official contributed to the fact that the national market was occupied by foreign producers who are now setting lower prices, having a wider and more up - to - date range, larger fees, more powerful advertising. their rules of play in our market. And the profits come to their state treasury. The traditional “what to do?” is a simple answer: to counteract this dumping of a foreign producer, namely to protect the domestic book market, primarily at the legislative level. My colleagues from the Lithuanian National Block propose to support Bill 7609, which is fully in line with European standards, which will allow tax legislation to be activated in part of the State support for the publishing industry in Ukraine, particularly with regard to the use of certain goods that are not produced here but are used in publishing activities, or activities related to the production of books. And when we save our country's bookstore, then our government officials will not be ashamed to officially celebrate on a proper national day not only the World Book and Copyright Day, which is celebrated every April 23th by UNESCO, but also many other beautiful high-spiritual events at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u139	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. I now ask you to prepare for the vote. Yes. I'm looking, I'm looking. Yes, the honourable members of the national parliament are put to the vote by the committee, it's here to be accepted mainly and in general, but I'm going to put first on the adoption as the basis of draft law, registration number 7609 on amendments to the Ukrainian Single Customs Tariff Act. As far as cellulose is concerned. Please vote. To -260. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to accept this project as a law. No warning? I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt an entire draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on a single customs tariff on cellulose as a law. Registration number 7609. Please vote. For – 288 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is being announced for consideration. [[on notarial certification of long-term real estate contracts]] Reporter Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u140	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is given to the draft Act amending article 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. I want to remind you that today, under this decree, a government tax is set at 1 percent of the amount of the contract for notarial certification of any contract that is subject to assessment. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the rate of government duty for notarial certification of long-term contracts for fixed assets and contracts for the sale of state-owned property. Such changes, in our view, have been called upon by the establishment in Ukraine of long-term real estate contracts that meet the general practice and stimulate a more attractive investment climate in Ukraine. It is proposed to change the rate from 1 percent to 0.01 percent of the value of the contract, and the bid is also proposed: from 1 percent to the actual formal interest - 0.01 percent. At the same time, it is proposed to set a limit on the total amount of duty, which should be not less than 5 and not more than 50 non-taxable minimum citizens' income, which should to some extent improve the conditions of the investment climate in Ukraine. The committee decided to adopt this law in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter, we need to know, then we will vote. Please turn on the microphone. Microphone, please speak. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill. At the same time, it is important to pay attention to the date on which this law takes effect. In general, we need to accept it as a basis and make adjustments only to take effect. Please support it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u142	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on speaking out of those who are enrolled? Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Turn on the microphone. Karmazin's microphone Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin's Block. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, the bill proposes to create more favourable conditions for individuals and legal persons whose interests are made by mortgage contracts and leases and suborndances of real estate objects. Of course, there are no objects, such as in Sevastopol or Yalta or in Genicésk, for which the government was simply overlooked and did not carry out its duties criminally, and no leases were made at all. The question here is that 10 times the rate of notarial recognition is changing from 0.1 per cent to 0.01 per cent of the value of property, and the maximum amount of government duty is decreasing, from 100 to 50 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens. But clearly this will affect the State budget. Obviously, that's how we're going to reduce to the revenue side, and so if we're talking about adopting this law right now in the first and second readings, we have to write that the moment that the law becomes effective is going to be the first January of 2007. If you and I deliberately ad hoc decide what takes effect from January 1, 2007, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then all the questions are deleted. No need to conclude the Budget Committee then, no need for the Ministry of Finance to conclude the loss, no need to do anything, because we do not violate the rules of the Budget Code by automatic means, in particular part three of article 27, which states that if it affects the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budget, such laws should be published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. If we adopt this law in advance, we have to write that it becomes effective on January 1, 2007. Thus, this will make it impossible, firstly, for the President's veto -- once; secondly, it will make it impossible for the budget to be lost, because a new government, which will be formed by a new parliament, will take into account that this law is, and the tax base has decreased. I propose to make a change like this right now. Well, unfortunately, we're going to have to make it, we're going to have to adopt it, because at the time of the adoption of the law, it was introduced on October 6th, and it was introduced to the adoption of the State Budget Act. I think we have the right to make that change. At least that's what we've done. Let's do it -- and so we can take it in two readings right away so we don't go back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u144	Mikhailo Melniczuk. None. Yuri Solomatin, will you be speaking? No, it's not. Basil Nadrag. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u145	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, of course, this morning, when we discussed the question at the meeting of members of the People's Block of Lithuania, the view was common, in such a way that the bill must be supported because it actually introduces elements of civilization into our economic life. At the meeting of members of the People's Block of Lithuania, however, it was suggested that we should vote today only on first reading. Why, because in general the positive effect of the law affords an opportunity to vote on first reading? Here are the questions that remain for the second. Well, first of all, what has already been said here is that we must adopt legislation in accordance with the Budget Code. It is absolutely right to postpone the entry into force of the Act as of 1 January 2007. And second, equally important, the moment in general, referring positively to the fact that the removal of State duty restrictions on the certification of public property contracts will increase the revenue of the public budget, in any case create favourable conditions, we cannot agree that the mechanism for the reduction of income in the same budget has not been fully completed, with the notarial approval of lease or subterranean real estate contracts. That is why we feel that this mechanism needs to be worked out. And when we make decisions that will benefit the economy as a whole, we must not forget that it is also important for us that, in the global interest of the economic, with the global positive of the Act, we must clearly meet the interests of budgets, whether it is the central budget or the local budget. Because social financing comes from the budget and, accordingly, we cannot allow budget cuts to lead to the lack of resources for education and health in local budgets. Therefore, based on this logic, once again, we have decided today that the members of the People's Block of Lithuania will vote in favour of the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski, will you speak? Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u147	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues, dear voters, most certainly entrepreneurs, because the law that we now vote on will make it much easier for you to work. I mean businessmen. Indeed, the great paradox is that there is still a decree of bad memory in Ukraine, adopted somewhere in the 92nd or 93rd year, when Leonid Danilovich headed the Cabinet of Ministers. He's really, he's out of date, we know how many abuses there are when these documents are drawn up. Today, some notaries take one percent; others take much more. Because of this, it's very important that, after all, we sort of normalize, people will have a law in their hands that they can look into and know exactly how much they have to pay. I'm just deliberately calling business once again that we're going to change this situation now, and for the agreement to buy and sell the property of state-owned enterprises, it's going to be 0.1 percent for the notarial certification of contracts, that is, not the purchase, but the contracts are going to be 0.01 percent. The rental of real estate objects is.01. And the lease on land is also 0.01. I fully support my colleagues who have spoken before, especially a well-known MP, a member of the Yuri Karmazin block, and I will not call it. We really need to move the date to January 1st next year. And vote in the first reading. And then, I think, and we don't have to hurry, we'll be able to accept it later on in the second reading. I would also like to thank you, distinguished national deputies, for your support of the previous law on cellulose. It sounds like it might not be very clear, but on behalf of the National Writer Association and on behalf of the readers, we did take a step to meet the book market. Because you know that in our own market, it turns out that the book market is a random people today. Russia throws huge circulation of its cheap literature into our market, and the Ukrainian book declines. So thank you, you've done a good, holy right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u148	John the Rabbit. None. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading, specifying that the law has been in force since 1 January 2007, this is the draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, registration number 7658. [[on notarial certification of long-term contracts for the rental of immovable property]] On the basis of clarification, it has been in force since January 1, 2007. I'll bet on it first. For -301. Decision taken. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal was to be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Who denies it? Is there no objection? I'm voting on a proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 7658. [[on notarial certification of long-term real estate contracts]] Please vote. Since January 1, 2007, this law has been in force. For 297. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, let's take another look. To that end, we will continue the morning session in due course, pending the conclusion of the discussion. This is the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Non-State Pension Insurance, registration number 7690. [[re-read]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Valerius Borisovich Aloshin Prepare Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Non-State Pensions. The Law is discussed in a rereading of the first reading, and I would like to briefly remind him of it. For more than two years, legislation has been in place in Ukraine related to pension reform, which envisions the activities of non-state pension funds and the practice of operating non-state pension funds, the practice of applying non-state pension laws and regulations has revealed a number of outstanding issues and disagreements. This law, prepared by a group of national deputies, is aimed at settling such contradictions. In addition, with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Non-Governmental Pensions, the Civil Code, the Ukrainian Master Code, the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs and other laws became effective. Therefore, it was necessary to bring the Law on Non-State Pension Insurance into line with existing other acts. There was also a need to regulate in some way the licensing procedures for non-state pension fund administrators, asset management companies, to expand the ability to invest pension fund assets, to provide procedural points for the settlement of the relationship between participants and investors of such funds. In addition, there was a need to regulate certain tax laws, so the proposed law amends the laws on corporate income taxation, as well as the laws on value added taxes. I emphasize that no additional expenditure from the implementation budget is needed and no additional tax benefits or incentives are made either. So, given that the law is mainly aimed at technical improvement of current legislation, I would ask the Supreme Council and all the national MPs to support the prescribed draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u150	Thank you, you too. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! I will briefly remind you that the Law on Non-State Pension Insurance has been in force for two years. Today, we can already identify the inconsistencies and inaccuracies that are now and that are in fact not allowing for a more attractive expansion of the state’s non-state pension system. This is what Bill 7690 is designed for, which is now proposed to be considered in a re-first reading. The copyright team has technically revised the previous version of the bill and submitted it to your consideration. We hope that this time the awareness of the need to improve the functioning of the non-state pension system will prevail. In fact, it's a bill. It has already been said that this bill is submitted to three drafts, three laws. It's a law on non-state pension insurance, corporate income taxation, and value added tax. In particular, the U.S. Non-Governmental Pensions Act is subject to changes that provide for improved licensing procedures for administrators of non-state pension funds and asset management companies. The terminology of the law is also being clarified and, given the deficit of financial instruments for the investment of pension assets, it is proposed to expand the list of such instruments and to change the standards of diversification. The property offers to increase funding from ten to twenty percent, as well as certificates of real estate funds and mortgage securities, as well as bank metals, from ten to twenty percent. Given that these are the most liquid instruments for investment today. The U.S. Corporate Income Taxation Act introduces changes that relate to the classification of gross taxes paid by the taxpayer, non-state pension insurance, and increases the standard that allows the enterprise to account for most of the cost of the gross expenses of the enterprise. And with regard to the amendments to the Added Cost Tax Act, the following amendments are proposed, which are not subject to taxation of services for the administration of non-state pension funds. [[value added tax]] We think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u152	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u153	A perfectly timely bill and its adoption today, at least on the basis of time. The committee recommends that the draft law be adopted in the first reading and on the basis of the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u154	Report done. What is the position of the government in this regard before the performances are possible. Although if there is no objection, we will vote. Please, the microphone. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! The government supports the bill. Let me point out that these are changes to the bill you adopted in 2003. During practical implementation for two years, the bill showed some inadequacies. So all the changes that are being made are aimed at improving procedures and, above all, protecting the rights of voters, potential participants in non-state pension funds. Therefore, we ask that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Shall we discuss it? Please welcome Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Get ready for Santa Claus. Out of the way, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u156	I've got a minute to get more people to come out. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that this law is extremely necessary because we need a normal basis for legislation on non-State pension insurance. But at the same time, I would like to pay particular attention to the positions that indicate that changes are being made to current tax legislation, particularly the legislation on value added taxes and corporate income taxation. Paragraph 7.11 complements the content of paragraph 7.11.8: the income of non-profit organizations defined in paragraph “C” of Subparagraph 7.11.1 is exempt from taxation in the form of funds received from non-state pension funds in the form of contributions to non-state pensions or contributions to other needs provided for by legislation. For the second reading, we need to draw conclusions from both the Committee on Budgets and the Ministry of Finance about the losses that will be incurred. That's the first one. The other one. The same applies to tax changes for added value, although I believe that this value added tax is the most criminal tax and should be abolished at all. And this will also raise the question of when to put this law into effect. So, honourable national MPs, I would ask you to adopt this law in the first reading, a great law, there's still a point to it, but we'll make it in writing. Now I'll save time. Which he promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u157	Mikola Sadowa, POW faction, please. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u158	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz's faction. The state of Ukraine has undergone a period of market change, and state ownership has gradually been transformed into a private majority. This process was carried out by the previous regime naturally and certainly by means of the looting of the population of Ukraine. Retirement was considered with great delay. This can also explain the parallel that prevailed on this important issue. The state pension scheme applies mainly to budget staff, while the rest are retired or retired on a level playing field. Look at how many people in Ukraine work as implementers, transporters, builders in private structures without any form of work under Ukrainian law. These people may lose their pension or may live to an age by the state. Not all of them will win, of course, but part of the budgetary structures of unrighteousness. Therefore, legislation on non-state pensions is needed. And the socialists support such proposals, the basic proposals of the bill that are set out in this bill. To save time, I won't stop at them. But once again, the faction of socialists supports the bill, as it allows for the expansion of pension benefits and guarantees and non-state pensions. Because in the context of market transformation, people work in enterprises of different forms of property, and they have to have reliable protection in their old age.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u159	Yuri Solomatin passes on the right to speak to Alexander Bondarchuk. Microphone, please turn it on. Get ready for Sith.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u160	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear President, the People's Deputies! The Communist faction will not support this bill because our faction has in principle opposed the non-State pension system. We have long exposed this system as anti-national and which, in principle, cannot solve the real, real problems of today's pensioners, who are known to be low in pension. In order to increase these pensions in the solidarity pension scheme, it is sufficient to increase wages. But that's not exactly what we're doing. Instead, pension systems based on savings funds have been invented and the management of these funds has resulted in only employers and people who currently have adequate capital. How does this system of employee deception happen? Let's say that an enterprise creates a corporate pension fund and in a voluntary and forced manner, just as many of us workers in whole labour groups are forced to join a party there, they will be obliged to join these corporate pension funds and part of the wages to invest in this corporate fund. [[You know these examples.]] The employer will have additional financial resources to develop his business. The worker will not receive any guarantees that he will receive a specified pension. In practice, world practice has shown that very often these pension funds will simply go bankrupt. Well, first of all, we know that, to date in Ukraine, the situation in terms of securities and business in general is unstable. Therefore, if, in countries such as Chile, Argentina had been exposed to similar funds, well, or, of course, Kazakhstan had the same situation, people had just completely lost their pension contributions. Pension services in the savings system are very expensive. The investor has to pay up to 30 per cent of his contributions for the management of pension assets. There is simply another parasitic superstructure where officials receive money from employees and receive some income from employers. For these reasons, the Company's faction does not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u161	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u162	Mikhailo Siatina, “Litvina National Block”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies, the question proposed for consideration, is one of the most painful problems for mankind, which is human age. But becoming a pensioner and getting old, these things are not perceived as being identical. Few in both cases want to be poor. The pension limit frightens people both from the vague perspectives and from the need to change the normal way of life. Eastern wisdom emphasizes that the level of development of society is measured by the well - being of the youngest and oldest generations. For an average European who retires, life is just beginning. Travel, travel, and various leisure facilities have become the norm. During the years of independence, Ukraine has become a zone of or not the lowest standard of living for the vast majority of its population. And the more dangerous thing is that man cannot live or be sure of the coming day. However, at that age, it is difficult to change attitudes and beliefs. The programming principles of the “Lithuania People's Block” also include the achievement of high standards of living and well-being of the people of Ukraine. The state should promote the development of such alternatives to the existence of our citizens, so that everyone's choice is within the limits of good and better. Ideally, today we need to think about how to create the most favorable conditions so that a young person can take care of his or her assured old age. Therefore, “Lithuania’s People’s Block” is of the view that it is appropriate to promote the creation of mechanisms at the legislative level that would allow every citizen to support social activity as quickly as possible. And on the pension threshold for every Ukrainian, there will be a life full of beautiful and interesting moments. Not worse than our western and eastern neighbors. As far as the bill is concerned, the Lithuanian faction tends to support it in its first reading as one that needs additional work, but in general corresponds to the need for a day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u163	Yes. Sergei Shevchuk, microphone. Shevchuk was written down, so he has a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The position of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is quite clear. We believe that in the term “State pension insurance” one inaccuracies have been introduced. It seems that this state is providing the pensioners with funds. In fact, it is the pensioners, the Ukrainian citizens, who, throughout their working life, have entrusted the state with a share of their salary to manage it and to pay it back with retirement. We believe that citizens have the right to determine whether to entrust a state or other form of pension. We're in favour of a variety of forms of pension insurance. But in doing so, we realize that there is a danger, a bad memory of the infamous. And that's why when this bill is being passed today, which is more focused on the future, we're going to vote in favour, because it gives us warnings against the misuse of funds and for the forms of pension insurance to be more diverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u165	Yes, please, Stepan Cloud, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u166	The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important law and, of course, there can be no provision of a normal, civilized pension just at the expense of the state, when there are different forms of property in the economic sphere. This is to ensure that, in fact, normal pensions and decent living are provided after our citizens leave the age of employment, it is necessary for state pension insurance to be non-state. Therefore, it is vital that this development take place. And in addition, the accumulation of these funds will lead to a detining of the economy and accumulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-17-m0.u167	Please prepare for the vote. A committee proposal that coincides with the government's position on what to take as a basis for further work on this project. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on non-State pension insurance, registration number 7690. Please vote. Please vote. For 172. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! We've already sent this project back to re-reading. Let's go through the procedure again. Who's to go back to the draft Law 7690? Please vote. To go back to the draft law. Please vote. For - 187. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, recess until 4:00. At 4:00, we'll continue our work, ask to be in the session room, because we're going to have to make very responsible decisions.
