ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[16:03:17]] There are 240 deputies registered in the hall, and the evening session is open. We've just had a discussion at the Conciliation Council about how to organize the work of the Supreme Council. In particular, the question that concerns the number of deputies on committees. You know that yesterday was voted out, 11 numbers were voted in, and every committee had between ten and thirty deputies. That decree transferred the practice of the last Supreme Council, where the committees were smaller. But in view of the fact that the Supreme Council has determined the number of committees and committees in a larger number, or 27, this figure means that some committees may be unformed. So your point is to propose a draft regulation on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since radio and television want to listen not only to the whistles of some unbalanced MPs but also to the content of what is proposed, I will read this draft decree. In order to ensure the proper organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the fulfilment by Parliament of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council shall decide: 1. For a partial amendment to paragraph 3 of Supreme Council Regulation No. 835 of 11 July 2006 on the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5 on the Call to Form Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, each composed of not less than 7 and not more than 20 national deputies. 2. To the heads of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's MPs, by 19:00 on 13 July 2006, to make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the respective committees. 3. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. The decision is concise, completely understandable. Is there a need to discuss it? None. Then I put to the vote this draft decree as a whole as a decree of the Supreme Council. Who for, please make up your mind. [[16:06:29]] For 239. Decision taken. I believe that in this same way, the Supreme Council confirms the desire to work strictly in accordance with the Rules and the list of issues that are scheduled for the day. The two factions of "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Tymoshenko" have not yet made their proposals regarding the committees, they have the opportunity to implement this decision by 19 hours, to implement it, and tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will consider this matter essentially. So I declare the evening session closed. The morning meeting will take place at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
