ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, other participants in meetings, guests, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, October 4, Wednesday, I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:13]] There are 433 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. I inform radio audiences that today the Cabinet of Ministers participates almost entirely in the work of Parliament in view of the fundamental issues that concern each family — prices, energy tariffs, such as gas, electricity, and so on. But we do have time under the Rules for the national MPs to make proposals, declare statements, messages, and so on. I'd like to sign up to the deputies for that and express my thoughts. Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u2	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u3	Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u4	Excuse me, Tomenek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u5	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko is speaking. He's got Ribhub behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u6	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, on behalf of our faction, I would like to draw attention to what is happening today in the city of Kiev. So historically, Kiev has observed a story over the past few months, which is about to be called the “Political Circus Came to Kiev”. Everyone was curious when a chair was put behind the city’s head in order to sit in a special place and adjust the regulations so that all who were present at his appearance would stand up and then write in special notebooks a genius statement. But in the last days, the circus left, and Kiev’s looting began. The last decision of the Kiev authorities, when, without auction, without discussion for the first time in the history of Ukraine, seven billion dollars of land were allocated to brotherly structures, has not yet been seen by the Ukrainian capital. Our faction prepared a lawsuit today, and we will sue this parcel of the city of Kiev because in previous years the Kiev officials stole but stole with shame. Today, Kiev is being plundered shamelessly, and our political power will do its utmost to ensure that this shamelessly stolen land is returned to Kiev for auctions to resume in Kiev and that no such decisions will be taken in the congregations of the asset and relatives of the mayor, but in the session room by a roll call. You know that today, conditions have been created for the theft of two other valuable objects in Kiev: Beetle Island and Truhan Island In spite of the environmental commission, utilities are being created. The next step is to leave a few tens of hectares in utilities, sell everything else. I am absolutely convinced that Parliament must intervene in this situation and put order in place. But the greatest cynicism has taken place by night. In Kiev, in a single city, the right to raise tariffs for today is given three times to the city's head, its relatives and colleagues in the “Praveks” which today are headed by all the supervisory boards of power utility companies. Even so, Ukraine was not concerned when one person and several families in Kiev determined how much to pay for the fares. I am absolutely convinced that these decisions of the Kyiv City Council will not be out of control. I am convinced that the Kyiv authorities are, of course, sick, seriously ill, but the disease is cureable. And I think that the Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office and, above all, the Parliament, together with the Kyiv society, will return the Kiev authorities to their place, and they will start implementing the law, not the instructions of their spiritual Nigerian leader Sande Adelaji. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u7	The word for Rizuk, who hands over his right, is given to the deputy of the Holy One. Please. I've been after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u8	Dear compatriots, the faction of the Party of the Regions is deeply concerned about the destructive campaign that took place in the country after the government was under pressure, and personally Prime Minister Viktor Yanuković, with the President of the country Victor Yushchenk or his so-called team. This propaganda diversion has reached its peak in the so - called topic of filing for the removal of some governors. It's hard to say, but officials who call themselves the President's team are the most vulnerable and sicker than anyone else are to see legal standards, especially the law as such. The likely logic of legal exile, governance chaos, and emotional motivation is much closer to understanding such policies when, because of lack of political will, intellectual potential, human dignity, for unifying and constructive work for the benefit of the whole country, they are easier to get into the old ways, the roots of hostility and accusations. It seemed that there might be a simpler 118 articles of the Constitution, which defines the following: “The heads of the local government authorities are assigned to positions and are relieved of office as President of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In full conformity with the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers, in its decision, challenged the President’s question of the purpose of taking office as governors of the five district government administrations. The absolute logical step that corresponds to the spirit of political reform, the norms of the Constitution and common sense is the basic basis for a new model of political relations and public responsibility, regardless of who holds or holds positions today. The “Our Ukraine” bloc has rushed to make revealing statements about the illegal involvement of the Government in the power of the head of state, the political settlement with the disagreeable governors. The Minister of Justice, Roman Zvaric, went on to follow all of the points mentioned in the sample reading of the Constitution of Article 118, paragraph 4, quoted only as saying “by the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers”. Perhaps the minister of justice is inclined to put a dot in a sentence, just after the words “that governs the political forces. ” In Kharkiv region, the situation is unprecedented at all, and on June 3, more than two thirds of the Kharkiv district’s troops expressed their mistrust to Governor Arsen Awahov. The situation got worse, local council members announced hunger as a sign of protest. Article 118 of the Constitution: If two thirds of the deputies from the respective council have expressed mistrust to the head of the district or district government, the President of Ukraine decides to resign the head of the local government. In this situation, the resignation must be accepted in any case. However, Governor Kharkishchia aggressively defends her right to power and appeals to the President without precedent. Is Ukraine again awaiting a new series of "Dear Friends of the President"? The Party of Regions says once again that we are ready to work within the Constitution and the Laws, we are ready to create a civilized future for our country because we all live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is Kljev Sergey Petrovich, a faction of the Regions. He will be followed by Tkachenko from the “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u10	Please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u12	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Sergey Sas, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, First Deputy Head of the Rules Committee. Dear colleagues, I have long been in Parliament, but it is difficult for me to recall such cynical disregard of the Rules. In particular, I would like to draw attention to today's agenda, which includes a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity." The fact is that the annulment of the decisions of the Supreme Council takes place only under the requirements of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which is called the “Cancel of Decisions of the Supreme Council”. The article requires a certain procedure. In particular, according to part of the third article in the event of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a national MP or other subject of the legislative initiative has the right to appeal to the presiding officer to remedy violations. The chairman of a meeting in accordance with part four of this article should take steps to address these violations. In the event that adequate action is not taken by the presiding officers in accordance with part five of the article, the national MP is entitled to contact the Head of the Supreme Council for a two - day period regarding violations of the Rules when considering a particular matter. At the same time, a national deputy or other subject is introducing a draft decision by the Supreme Council to annul the decision of the Supreme Council. This draft regulation shall be sent immediately to the Rules Committee, which shall consider the draft regulation in a two-day period. And only after consideration can the Supreme Council consider the bill after the Committee has concluded that it is appropriate to adopt or reject the bill. In this case, the question of cancelling a decision to the Committee on Rules of Procedure has failed, the draft ruling I mean, and the question will be considered, a statement that came from the head only today at 5 p.m. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge the Head of the Supreme Council not to allow violations of the Rules, to be guided solely by the Rules, in particular by part 2 of article 130, which provides for the President's veto to be sent, signed, sent to the President for signature by these documents. In the event of a violation by the presiding officers at the meeting of the Rules, the faction leaves the right to take adequate action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I just want to say that the draft ruling is sent to the committee and why the committee has not considered it is the committee, the committee, the committee's leadership, including the deputy. Please. Please. It must be considered without a doubt. Well, do it in the morning, get the committee on a break and consider the question. That's the basic question. Please. That's the basic question. Please. Chevchuk. After him, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u15	May I have the floor for the speech of the national deputy Ludmila Denisov?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u17	Ludmila Denisova, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I would like to reiterate today's attention of our constituents on what happened yesterday in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the Act on the Equalization of Minimum Wage and Minimum Living Minimum for Workers. That is, we wanted and adopted such a bill as a basis for the minimum wage to be equal to the minimum subsistence minimum for workers. But I did not go to the rostrum, but I would like to draw the voter's attention once again that yesterday the Party of the Regions handed over its electorate, i.e. the only party, the only representatives of the People's Deputies from the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of the bill. The bill was adopted by 228 votes of the people's deputies, and in fact our voters have the hope that the sound sense of the building will prevail. Which, indeed, will draw attention to the fact that there are citizens today, and 80 per cent of our citizens are below the poverty line. But there are dangers in which this law will not work and at least three of them. First. That the law may not be voted on as a whole, because in the methods we know, they will work with individual people's deputies and people's deputies as they go about changing their minds and forgetting voters. Second. Even if we group together and vote in favour of this law, how is the moratorium on the tariffs of Parliament's speaker simply not signing this law? And by the will of one person, the well-being of 46 million citizens will be suspended. And the next thing is, even if the will is sufficient for all MPs, you can't just find the money in the budget. As in 2007, there is money for social protection. I therefore call upon all the people's deputies to recall that, today, in the draft budget for 2007, 12.5 billion rubies are planned to be left in the pockets of the Donets region boys, who will be operating their business in warm conditions with the easy hand of Azarov. So let's not bring the country into a social collapse and lead our population to 90 per cent poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u18	Lukyanenko will perform, then Muz will perform instead of Baldireva.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u19	Lukyanenko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies. I would like to address, first of all, our deputies from the South-East areas, on which this time our order of the day depended for the whole half of the year. I want to talk about the problem of famine in Ukraine and how Ukraine, and especially the Supreme Council, is studying and learning this topic. It was established in 1992 by the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine, which brings together scientists from the Institute of History and the Academy of Sciences. In Ukraine historians, history teachers, and others who are interested in studying our history. In the Supreme Council, signatures have been collected many times to finance the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine, but it has never been possible for the Supreme Council to decide. In government the same way all the time, you know, was rejected by the Ukrainian Association of Starvish Researchers in Ukraine. It's funding. This time, on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, we have more or less included this issue in the plan for our submission to the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. I think maybe this time the members of the Supreme Council will vote and the Association will have the funds needed to study the subject. I'd like to address the communists first, because they're from those areas: ask your parents, your mothers, because South-East Ukraine suffered the most from the famine of 1921-1923, 1946-1947, the most suffering. Ask, your parents will tell you how many people died, how entire villages died, and in those villages the village council hung a black flag, because there are no more people, you have to know that. And if we are thinking about the fate of Ukraine and the Supreme Council has a duty to protect the interests of the nation, it should know this story. The Supreme Council is the place where the contradictions of our entire society are encountered and concentrated. Ukraine became an independent state. We must return to our national sources, our spiritual sources. And that requires, above all, a true view of our history. So I would very much like to be supported by the budget vote and to make that funding a minimum for the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine. And look at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u20	Thank you, Leveko Grigorovitch. Here comes Mutz Orest from the Party of Regions, followed by Udovenko instead of the Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u21	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Last week, while in Ternopolish, President Viktor Yushchenko called Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovitch’s statement that he was unworthy of being a political governor of Ternopil. I am a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, for which Ternopilska is a native country, as a representative of the so-called Lenin settlers, I will say: “Dear Mr President, the Prime Minister’s statement against the Governor of Ternopil is not political, but is essentially anti-corruption.” Because of the DPA's head tax union in Ternopil, Mr. Svistun and his deputy, Shimanski, did not reach the budget of the region for about half a billion dollars and was returned for effective help to individual firms for about 50 million VAT dollars. It's supported by the prosecutor's union, which is the deputy attorney. The prosecutor of Ternopol Sharovar. And all this turmoil is being done for today’s governor. Let me give you a few examples. A powerful VAT firm called Ternopilbud, which accounts for 60 percent of all construction, paid only up to 30,000 dollars instead of 30 million dollars in budget. Some 20 million bottles of vodka are sold in the heat of the earth each year. Of these, about 10 million are sold in shadow. There are no 120,000 hectares of fertile land. There are also 300 rooms that were once overcrowded with cattle and birds. Ternopil sugar plants work under shadow schemes, fooling my Galicians. The factory owners are in the company of the BUTU faction. These so - called opposition workers shut down one of the factories, and the workers were expelled. for the border. You are an opposition to your own people. The cost of the Ternopil residence is 3-4 seats in Ukraine. With the purchasing power of Ternopolska in the same places, the income part of the area is almost the last place. What's he talking about? That about 80 percent of the companies in Ternopolska work in the shadows and that the wages abroad are the only way to survive for many families. About $150 per year comes from Western Union employees. It's so private. In total, this amount is almost 50 percent higher than the district budget. I am addressing the President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, and Hen the Prosecutor to give a legal assessment of what is being done in Ternopolska. I will conclude my statement with the words of present - day Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic: “And the beauty of achievement should not be. Humans should talk about achievements.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u22	Thank you. The widower is Gennady Josephovich. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u23	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Let me announce a statement by the faction “Our Ukraine” concerning Russia's unfriendly steps against Georgia. The “Our Ukraine” faction states that the exacerbation of Georgian-Russian relations is the result of the imperial foreign policy of Russia, which it pursues in post-Radians space, and in particular against Georgia, aimed at destabilizing the situation in the region and weakening the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Georgian State. Russia’s unfriendly steps, which initially unjustifiably banned Georgian imports, gradually escalated the conflict and led the entire economic sanctions against Georgia. It is particularly dangerous to block Georgian seaports and Russian military maneuvers in the border area of Georgia. Such methods of influence on the will of another state are a manifestation of a short-sighted policy that does not harmonize the Georgian-Russian relationship, rather contributing to increased tension in the Caucasus region. They are held hostage by citizens of both countries with family, business, spiritual and cultural ties on both sides of the Russian-Georgian border. The “Our Ukraine” faction urges the Russian side to give up this medieval form of pressure on the neighbouring country, which it has recently demonstrated and to move on to a civilized dialogue. This does not contribute to the improvement of Russia's international image and only emphasizes its desire for hegemony by any means in the post-Radians space. In a situation where Russia is engaged in a provocative impulse-emotional style in interstate relations, it is said that the higher imperial rhetoric is restored, we express our total solidarity with Georgia and its people. This was a statement by the faction “Our Ukraine”. I would like to add that many contacts with the Georgians, our travels to Georgia indicate the stability of this state, its actions aimed at strengthening democracy in the state, and therefore such provocative actions only exacerbate the situation in the Caucasus region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u24	Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u25	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. A school year has just begun in the entire education system in Ukraine. The schools, schools, preschools, and out - of - school facilities are now operating in state - of - the - art conditions. The material base cracks, the material security conditions of teachers, teachers, and educators are extremely difficult. Under these conditions, the Ministry of Education and Science, as Minister of Education personally, has done much to improve educational affairs: wages have nearly doubled, and procurement has increased from 46 percent to 57 percent, especially in commercial schools. External testing has been carried out, which allows for a significant reduction of abuse across the vertical, acts 57 articles and so on, there are gains, and they can be continued. But there are many problems. The setting up of order in education faces the fierce opposition of those who have found wealth in this field. During 15 years of independence, there have been many problems, their entire flow. Count it for yourself. We had 180 colleges in 1991, and now there were 367 students, there were 800,000 students, there were 2 million 200,000. At a time when 7 million are working abroad and 2 million are unemployed in Ukraine. These problems lead to widespread abuse. A few examples. During the last period, 104 higher educational institutions or their branches have revoked licenses from various educational activities, including five national forms of education. At a meeting of the State Accreditation Commission, the management of the Interregional Academy of Personnel invited them to issue 4,650 additional diplomas to the licensee. Think about that figure! 4,650 diplomas in addition. This narrow strip shows that one of the instructors teaches 19 subjects. It's incredibly unique. Can the leaders of the MAUP accept the loss of income? No, of course not. That is why in individual media outlets we have publications. Some journalists did not get in the way of the problem. Regrettably, the management of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors is also often qualified to analyse fiscal problems and lead to a distortion of the real state of affairs. The faction of Soccer claims that the methods of fighting crime from education with the minister of education and science are unfair and immoral. We condemn such actions, and the educated should know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u26	Thank you. The word for Antemuk is given by Zybenko Petra Stepanovich. [[by the consent of Anthemuk]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u27	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, I would like to express the position of the Communist faction on the most painful problem of this day -- the problems of rising prices and tariffs for residential services. Yesterday a colleague of ours, on behalf of the entire Supreme Council, on behalf of the people's deputies, claimed that the Supreme Council, the national MPs, were playing by making decisions to overcome the veto. I respect the position of any national MP, whether he voted in favour of this decision or not, but I would like to state on behalf of our faction that the Communist faction voted entirely deliberately, taking this decision without any action. More than that. We're in this position today. I would like to say that we believe that this vote is justified by, at least, being able to bring society's attention to this problem again, we have managed to get back to this problem and seek compromise. And this compromise needs to be looked at between what you want to keep. get a housing establishment, understand what you'd like to get, and between what I might point out, you don't want to, or you can pay a Ukrainian citizen. I want to say that today's increase is different from the previous one, and that pensions, minimum wage increases by interest, and housing and utility benefits by the same time. And just a large number of citizens who were still paying for these services yesterday will be unable to do so today. And that's what we need to understand. Another aspect of today’s situation. It is that if earlier, let's say, in the zone of risk for housing services, pensioners, veterans, disabled people -- the most disadvantaged category of our citizens -- today, in the zone of risk, there are people who get a wage at a minimum or a little higher. Well, imagine if today's three-bedroom apartment costs, residential services, 400-500 bucks, and a person gets 400 bucks or a little bit more, he just can't pay those fees. And we have to understand that this is just the situation that might end with those people who were paying those tariffs yesterday and yesterday, tomorrow and tomorrow they won't be able to do that. So once again, I'd like to refer to the Ukrainian national MPs -- we're going to discuss this issue today -- to approach it very responsibly and seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u28	It's dry, it's a replica, one minute. From the leadership of the Party or the faction of “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions Dear colleagues, I've made a point of saying that negative remarks have been made here at the Regional Party's address. And I want to remind everyone that the resources of social populism have been exhausted, not by the Party of Regions, but by the government of Timoshenko, which has been exhausted long ago. Consequences: In 2005, a party of regions, if you recall, did not vote in favour of demagogism and populism, did not vote on the budget changes in full and did the right thing. What will be the outcome? 375 is the minimum wage, 525 minimum wage. We will stop forever the introduction of a single tariff grid. I realize that I didn't want to improve the lives of the people, I wanted to tempt Kabmina and Minfin. People, don't you understand, the Ukrainian national MPs, including the young people who have just arrived, you've ruined the local budgets, you're dramatically exacerbating the living standards of the territorial communities. The introduction of a benchmark is a minimum wage for unskilled and, for example, a high - category doctor. So the Party of Regions is consistent in its actions and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u30	The time for the speech is up, for the floor of the deputies. It is proposed to consider a report from the interim commission of inquiry on the verification of the situation with regard to the natural gas of Ukrainian consumers, calculated for natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. A report on this subject is proposed to make the head of the commission, Andrew Leonidovich Derkach. I would suggest that this rule be established, it is foreseen by our procedures: the speech, up to 15 minutes, the questions, about 10 minutes, the discussion, up to 30 minutes. If there's no objection, I'm voting on this proposal. Please. Here comes the vote. [[10:38:46]] For the 250. Such regulations are adopted. Please, Andrew Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u31	Honourable National Deputies, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 75, of 3 August 2006 and 85 of 4 August 2006, formed a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the energy market of Ukraine and its composition. On August 7, 2006, the first meeting of the interim commission of inquiry was held, which identified the main activities of the commission, and established the relevant working groups, which were attached to them by the members of the commission. Information has been received on the Commission’s requests to the authorities, institutions, and organizations involved in the commission’s activities. Within two months, the Commission prepared and held three working sessions of the Commission with the participation of the directors of the energy sector of Ukraine, the supervisors and the law enforcement authorities. Working groups have been prepared and distributed among the national deputies of the previous commission report. A number of material has been sent to law enforcement authorities regarding possible abuses and violations detected by the Energy Commission. In view of the considerable amount of material and documents coming to the interim commission of inquiry and the complexity of the issues under consideration, experts are involved in the work of the commission. In a number of ministries and departments, designated persons are responsible for coordinating actions with the interim commission of inquiry. The previous analysis by the interim commission of inquiry, documents and materials shows that the situation of energy security, particularly natural gas by Ukrainian consumers, is causing serious concern and has signs of violations and failure to comply with existing legislation. In 2005, the state's control over the state of affairs in the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine, particularly in the gas sector, was not systematically implemented. As a result of conflicting actions by a number of government errors, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, has made the situation on the energy, particularly gas, market in Ukraine significantly worse. As a result of ununderstanding and unprofessional negotiating policies, prices of imported natural gas have increased significantly, which has had a very negative impact on the state of the Ukrainian economy. At the same time, the government raised prices for natural gas for the population and budget institutions, leading to an overall increase in tariffs for HKG. The financial situation of NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” has deteriorated significantly. The reasons for the company's decline in profits were as a result of a reduction in natural gas re-export in 2005, a sharp decline in payment discipline, a misperforming NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” practice to cover the deficit in circulation costs due to external borrowings, a significant increase in non-producer and management costs. The deterioration of the situation in Ukraine's gas market has resulted from the weakening of government control over the activities of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and its subsidiaries. In particular, in 2005-2006, law enforcement authorities detected a number of violations of legislation and criminal acts by NAC officials of Naftogaz Ukraine and its subsidiaries. This conclusion concerns both external economic activity and the financial and economic activities of the gas monopolist. Yes, most of the supply and transit contracts for natural gas in Ukraine have been signed in a transparent manner, with significant breaches of the procedure established by law. According to the Ukrainian State Customs Service, there have been repeated violations of customs procedures in the processing of supplies to Ukraine or in the export of energy carriers. During the period 2005-2006, companies whose shares have been transferred to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine were largely lost. As a result, the State lost control of the statutory funds of most Ukrainian gas distribution companies. According to the first half of this year's test, DK “Scratching” carried out the transfer of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” of natural gas at the prices of 102 bracelets per thousand meters cubic from January and 140 bracelets per thousand meters cubic from March, which were established by the corresponding NAC “Naftogazu Ukraine” orders at the full cost of 124 bracelets per thousand meters cubic. According to the structure of the weighted average price given by NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, the price of gas as a commodity is 253 bracelets per thousand meters cubic, with the highest price of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” of its own production in DK “Crushing” being 140 bracelets per thousand meters cubic. At the same time, attention is drawn to the fact that the profit of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” exceeds the level of profitability, the level of self-sustainability of gas production. The NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” materials presented in the course of the tests do not contain any clarification of the facts found and need further analysis and verification. When calculating the economically sound wholesale price of natural gas for the population, based on the cost of gas produced by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, DK "Croat mining", VAT "Ukranafta", DAT "Cornomornaphtogas", according to the estimates of the Price Control Maintenance, the weighted average price of Ukrainian gas may be reduced by 30 per cent, considering that the production cost of natural gas from the reporting data is estimated at DK "Crushing" 94 dollars per thousand cubic meters, VAT "Ukranafta" - 175 dollars per thousand cubic meters, the date "Crnomornaftogaz" - 120 dollars per thousand cubic meters. In the final approval of natural gas prices for the population of NCRE, NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” does not carry out an audit. In fact, the State lost control of the process of gas and oil production. An artificial scheme has been developed to eliminate the mandatory sale of oil, gas, and gas condensate on auction grounds for the domestic market of Ukraine. Taking into account the foregoing, the interim commission of inquiry has now concluded on the basis of the previously studied materials that it is necessary to set a zero VAT rate for NAC State-owned enterprises, Naftogaz Ukraine, for import operations under external economic contracts, to optimize the tax burden of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, taking into account the socio-economic burden and the need to overcome the consequences of the company's wrong credit policy in 2005-2006. In order to reduce the price of gas for the population and HKG, the entire income of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine from exports and re-exports of gas in 2007 was directed towards lowering the price of gas for the population and enterprises of the HKG. Save in the 2007 State Budget the budgeted rate of rent for transit of gas in Ukraine, using the funds received to provide subsidies for the poor. The NCRE has to review the rationale and determine how to reduce the level of wholesale price of natural gas for population and budget needs, taking into account the materials and conclusions of our commission, the State Inspectorate of Mineconomy Prices and the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Take a look at the rationale for a sharp increase in prices for transport and natural gas supplies, taking into account the unique facts of fraud and abuse of regional supply companies in the calculation of the cost of natural gas, in the determination of the amounts of so-called technological losses, in tender procedures and in the purchase of material and technical resources. Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to establish an urgent working group of representatives of Minfin, Mineconomy, Minsoczachistu, Minpalevenergo, NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, NCRE, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Preparatory Committee for a new concept of subsidising low-security tariffs on municipal services. Ensure that the concept is prepared and approved by 01.07.2007 and that proposals are made for its implementation into the draft Ukrainian State Budget 2008 Act. Obligation NCRE to carry out an analysis and verification of the reliability of the NAC-provided ‘Naftobaz Ukraine’ calculations of the weighted average price for the approval of tariffs for the population, as well as to consider the possibility of being involved in the analysis of the pricing and tariffs of professionals from other state-owned institutions, such as Minfina, Mineconomy and Price Maintenance, in accordance with their authority. Speed up the development and introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which sets out the principles of State regulation of the natural gas market, protection of the rights and interests of natural gas consumers. In order to reduce the cost of natural gas production, to address the issue of controlling the purchases of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” by the Special Monitoring Commission on State Procurement at the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. Invite Minpalevenergo to develop a system of prior contract control, contracts that are being prepared for the signing of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Optimize the cost of an enterprise that is not self-sustaining but is a source of business damage, a charity for sponsoring aid, a questionable and hopeless debt, a premium that is not working. Assigning the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to develop a single tariff network for a particular category of employees of the relevant public sector enterprises and the order of other incentive payments solely on the basis of net profit. To entrust the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, in accordance with the accounting system reform programme and the application of international standards approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 28.10.1998 in 17.06, with the development and approval of the industry's methodology for calculating and calculating the cost of work and services in the oil and gas complex. To draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the need to optimize the organisation structure of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” by simplifying the technology chain, the gas from the gas company to the consumer. To raise questions before the NCRE on optimizing the number of gas licenses, taking into account their average ratio to supply and introducing a new single licence for the supply of natural gas for all gas-supply organisations, providing for a state control mechanism that will allow for greater efficiency of the State's pricing impact in a given segment of the gas market. To bring the activities of the company “Ukranafta” and “BlackMornaftogaz” into compliance with the Ukrainian National Budget 2006 Act and the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers decree 1729 of 27.12.2001 on the order in which the national economy and the population are secured by natural gas through the removal of their licences issued by the NCRE for the provision of natural gas at an unregulated rate. To analyse human resources policies in the field in order to comply with the criteria of professionalism, transparency and to strengthen state control over the activities of gas companies by reviewing the composition of governments and observation councils: NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, DP “Crushing”, Date “Crnomornaftogaz”, VAT “Ukrnafta” and regional gas supplier of the company. The interim commission of inquiry continues its work in defined working groups in approved directions. I would like to point out that this is perhaps the only example in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism when the investigating commission of the Supreme Council has all the necessary documents at its disposal, including the law enforcement authorities. The Commission cooperates with government and state institutions in a transparent and constructive manner, not turning Parliament’s important control function into a pianist show. Conclusions are drawn, decisions are made, and suggestions are made on issues that concern the population of Ukraine, not by form, but by content. I am confident that such activity will be effective both legally and economically. The final report of the Commission will take place within the deadline and in the form established by the Rules and Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Questions to the Reporter? Please sign up. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u33	Efremov, Party of Regions. Please pass the word to Chechchev Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u34	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u35	Dear Andrei Leonidovich, I think there are two reasons that have had a very negative impact on the country's gas market. First. These are serious miscalculations in the foreign policy course. Indeed, the main criterion for the effectiveness of foreign policy is the amount of economic dividends that the country receives. If the State suffers enormous losses, then the price of such foreign policy. Second reason. This is a complete chaos in the financial and economic activities of the former oil and gas management. The Commission's findings clearly indicate that the oilgas yield is significantly higher than the cost of gas production. In addition, oilgas had taken huge multi-billion-dollar loans, which had gone incomprehensiblely, and now Naftegas had virtually bankrupted and took at least a year for the company to reach the 2004 level of work. There is a legitimate question: where is the oilgas money?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u36	Well, question is, we should have started with that, Mikhail Vasilovich. Where is Naftogazu’s money? That's the question, I understand, the commission answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u37	Mikhail Vasilevich, I support your emotional question, but there are all the answers to the question. Therefore, I have nothing to add to such a completed form of your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u38	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u39	Bronnikov, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye. Andrei Leonidovich, history of Ukraine, gas history has three stages. A stage of gas chaos, where gas was stolen and earned by everyone who wanted it. An ESA phase that has collapsed, including for a known faction. And the stage that began in 2003 - 2004 when they tried to keep order. And the clear relations between Russia and our main gas supplier and Ukraine. Is the Commission planning to assess the stages that have taken place and whether materials will be transferred to the investigative bodies to address this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Konstantinović, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the text of my statement, I have said that all the information that contains the evidence of the offence under article 97 is sent to the Ukrainian law enforcement system. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission is only working for two months. All cases brought by law enforcement authorities are subject to control. But I am absolutely against the use of the law enforcement system in this case in terms of political relevance. Today, there are deputies of all factions who can remember each other, as they say, a questionable experience of the use of law enforcement authorities in political relevance and opposition activities. Therefore, I would not rush the work of the Commission in that direction. As far as assessments are concerned. It's our work that's built into working groups. All factions have access to all the materials at the disposal of the Commission. The group is headed by a representative of the BUT. I think that in the process of work we will take your wishes into account from the point of view of the historical analysis of the gas market process in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u41	The question is, Pinchuk. After him, Gomenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u42	Pinchuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u43	Acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Andrew Leonidovich! I have two questions for you. First. For a long time now, this rostrum, including the belief that Ukras Energo is a harmful structure for Ukraine. I would like to ask you, "Was it discovered in the investigation of your commission that, during her tenure, Timoshenko raised questions about the liquidation of this structure?" This is the first question. And the second question. It is known that in August 2005, when the government headed the same Timoshenko, it, its government unilaterally broke its supply agreement to Ukraine at a stable price, by 2009, by the way, 50 dollars per thousand meters cubic. I want to ask you, why didn't the commission give an assessment of the damage to Ukraine's economy following the termination of the gas supply agreement from Russia?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u45	I want to remind you once again that the commission is doing its work in accordance with certain procedures, including the work plan. This question is being studied. We now have previous conclusions, including on credit policy, on foreign economic policy of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. But from the point of view of the state interests and the negotiating process that NAK Naftogaz is currently leading with creditors and with Russia, in agreement with the members of the TSK, who represent all factions of Parliament, it would be inappropriate to make statements on this point to the final conclusions of the Interim Investigation Commission. People’s deputies may be familiar with confidential information through colleagues from the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u46	Humenjuk, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u47	Humenuk, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Bespalom Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u48	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u49	Incorruptible, Our Ukraine. The net profit of NAC Naftogazu in 2005 was known to be 318 million, while in 2004 the net loss was over one and a half billion. Moreover, in 2005 there were 11 billion people in the State budget. - twice as much as in 2004. And when you started your investigation since 2005, we can't help but miss the phrase of the famous movie hero who said, “It's all been stolen from us. ” Well, probably for the 2004 election campaign of an official candidate then from power. In view of the fact that Naftogaz was not being audited, you yourself said that your commission would continue to work. So don't you think it would be very useful to carry out a full audit of Naftogazu NAC, at least between 2003 and 2004, when money was being stolen on a massive scale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u50	I'm excited about your knowledge of cinema, but what I'm saying is that we don't have to turn an important, parliamentary function into a control show and political accusations if we're building really democratic procedures. [[important, believe me.]] And if you answer essentially, there are enough examples in 2005, if you want a show when you've taken on a non-profit in the field of the oil and gas complex, when people who don't have anything to do with financial and economic activity were taking on business leaders, particularly DC Gazteplo, especially the judiciary, who were running businesses that were responsible for the security of Naftogazu, Ukraine, a man with a murder conviction unrepentant. And this bad practice has been applied by the previous Naftogazu leadership. As far as income is concerned, your figures do not correspond to reality. Naftogaz had no such profits in 2005. If you would like to read the official figures and supporting documents provided by the Tax Administration and the Minfin KRU, please come and we will satisfy you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u51	Thank you. I would ask you not to politicize that question. Consider it essentially. Because, I see, the question-makers are indignant with the answers, but what question is the answer? So please refrain from your emotions. Andrew Leonidovich, the question is. How much longer do you need to work and conclude when it may be, because Parliament needs to be determined about the functioning of the commission further. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u52	I think it takes at least three months for the final conclusion to be reached in the work of the commission. The next meeting will take place and discuss issues related to privatisation in the oil and gas sector and corporate rights management. Because it's a very urgent question, we've practically lost the gas distribution system of the lower level, i.e. the "mistakes".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u53	Okay. Have a seat, please. Discussion. Sign up, we've got 30 minutes. Anyone who wants to make a statement, sign up for the speech. You're welcome. It's from the factions, isn't it? Now from the deputies, please. Please, Kenzior, “Our Ukraine”. Light up, please. But you have every monitor, look. Kenzier of the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u54	The Honourable Head, the Honorable Colleagues, the National MPs, the problem that came up today for consideration of the Supreme Council's deliberations, of course, had to be raised a few more years ago. I'm moving away from the question that Leonidas, Andri Leonidovich, my colleague Bespali, has asked in this room once and for all, we have come out from time to time on the problem of the oil and gas complex. We've talked about this once in this room, but this was only done by talking about how our wells work in Poltavščina, in Kharkishte, in Slobožanščina. We even called specific names that privatized wells there. They were called names and Shufrics, and many other deputies, who are now ministers. And these colossal scales of looting of national, natural resources at the time, as it were, were not taken seriously by anyone, nor by the Supreme Council, nor by the Government of the then, nor by the law enforcement authorities. And today, of course, when the problem of energy supply, first of all, became so acute for the population of Ukraine, we came back to this problem. I am convinced that the commission, which is the interim report that we have heard today, is certainly, in view of the functioning of the appropriate government, the head of the Government, which functions as a parliamentary majority, which is appropriate and not accidental for the consideration of the commission, a very clearly defined period in which the 2005-2006 audit is to be carried out. And all that's been done is all this horrible garbage in this area that's been created up to this point -- it's all left, as they say, out of frame. Today, as a result of this, I want to say that the results of the test will certainly be used precisely for political purposes in order to accuse the past government of past management of ‘Naftogaza Ukraine’. And these, as I've already said, are colossal offences that were before.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u55	It's from the communists. Eugene Vasilovich, please. He'll be followed by Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u56	Respectable colleagues. The interim commission, I am also a member of the interim commission, has revealed very serious problems. I'd even say I opened up a rotter that's accumulated in our energy. And I have to say, this bastard didn't show up today, and he showed up a long time ago. We didn't have that problem in Soviet times. You knew that in Soviet times there was gas, that there was gasoline, that there was oil. It's that the price was gassed water. Of course, after the collapse of the Union, the importance of gas and gasoline increased, but the attitude to the problem was inertial. We have given serious attention to energy. And let's say, with energy, we have a less stable relationship. We also have laws. We also have the legal functioning of the wholesale energy market. We've been studying experiences abroad on energy. And the way the gas was treated was by inertia. And the gas was, and remains, the father of power, the President, his surroundings, the proper authority. And, of course, the gas, unfortunately, was used to store, for personal accumulation. And here they say Frost asked a question, and when we do, we'll hand it over. Yes, I very much doubt that we will surrender and find out who did it and who will answer it. It's like killing Gongadze. Because if we're going to start there, there's probably half-Ukraine to be transplanted. That's why, and our Ukraine, I suppose. Dear comrades, the Commission has revealed serious issues and has raised problems. There's something else, of course, untouchable. I must say that the commission is working seriously and the attitude to the investigation is serious. But I don't think there are two important points in the proposals that are now being made that need to be complemented. First, it is absolutely necessary to supplement the paragraph so that the Cabinet of Ministers speeds up the development and adoption of a law on the functioning of the natural gas market in the Supreme Council. Without this law, we will not be able to maintain order in this sector. We have 4 properties, 4 gas prices, we have, look, we have our own gas, but we don't have the legal right to use it. We're not supposed to do it by means of gas compensation, so that means we have some kind of sub-legislative act. And one last moment. We need to speed up the adoption of the State Energy Regulation Act under the NCRE. This is a serious power, a bread place, this place is fought for by many, but completely vachanal, because there is no law here. So this is the Supreme Council's fault. We must speed up the adoption of these two most important laws, otherwise we will not bring order in this sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u57	He's got a word for Cranvol Miroshnichenko. Next, a faction of socialists. Danilin's been written down. What's wrong with you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Yuri Miroshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to encourage everyone in this room today, I'd like to encourage the entire Ukrainian society to look at the problem of extremely relevant and serious, the problem of gas supply by Ukraine, primarily people, consumers, from a professional position, not from a political point of view, but from a professional point of view. And that's why I'd like to build my statement on the facts right now. What they are, and as the previous speaker, I mean, the reporter, Andri Leonidovich, looked at the commission, looked at the last year and over the last year and we have to take the figures, analyze the figures, give the corresponding estimate. What I can say and have been discussed repeatedly in the media and in this rostrum. Unfortunately, Ukraine today has worse gas supply conditions than it was before 2006. And we had $50 a thousand cubic meters of gas, and now we have 95. A fact is a fact. We must be doing the right thing with you and Ukrainian society. Who, then, are the subjects of supply and activity in this area? NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”. And what has been his activity for the past two and a half years? I can say that here, too, a colleague from the faction of “Our Ukraine” asked what the results of the activities of NAQ in 2005. I'll tell you that with total net income of 47 billion and 6 tenths of billions of dollars, the profit was only 300 million. So there's actually a lot of money hidden. But in 2006, we already have 600 million in the first half of the year, 600 million losses. What to say in a balance sheet, i.e. receivables and creditors' debts. At this point, that is, in the first half of the year, 15 billion 600 million dollars we have a negative balance, that is, we and the entire Ukrainian society have such huge debts. I could give a lot of examples of what, for example, we have a lot of problems, we have 61 million dollars spent on lawyers, and at the same time, it's going to be spent per year, and we have 4 billion dollars worth of GazUkrainian damage, and we have a lot of damage in some other subsidiaries. And at the same time, it's actually a industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u59	Have a seat, please. The word is Mendus, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u60	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The situation in the domestic fuel and energy complex is traditionally the subject of scandals in every Ukrainian government. Regrettably, it has already been established in Ukraine that every president and prime minister viewed the fuel-energy complex as a personal feudal supplement given to them to feed. All political affairs, such as Leonidas Kuchma’s electoral campaigns, were paid with an oil - gas pocket. It was for the collection of money under the very heavy political fraud that the authorities created closed monopolistic structures that were not subject to public scrutiny and hidden from public control. This corrupt process was initiated by Paul Lazarenko and Julia Timoshenko, who later adopted the NAK “Naftobaz” by Igor Bakaya, and after the revolution, Alexy Ivchenko continued their work. I'm sure the change in power and the formation of a power coalition should put an end to the crime in the oil and gas sector. The Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are obliged to demonstrate that they can work together to resolve the principles of problems that have never been solved. Not even those prime ministers who broke up about democracy and honesty, but actually covered the corruption pyramid. Under the new Constitution, Parliament and the government share responsibility for defining the economic policy of the State in order to transform NAC “Naftobaz” and other PEC structures from “the clock” for the ruling political elite into a stable source of revenue to the State Budget, the necessary joint actions, both ministers and national deputies, are needed. The scope of the problem is quite full in the information of the Special Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council. It is not a secret that in recent years the executive has often ignored the decisions of the commission of inquiry. I think the Supreme Council will now have enough political will to bring the matter to a logical conclusion. Those huge flaws and corrupt dining rooms found by the commission of inquiry must be covered up once and for all. And the results of this work should become public and public. I suggest that the recommendations of the commission of inquiry be completed with the following points: 1. To invite the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to carry out a review of the facts presented in the information to the commission and to establish a list of those responsible for the abuses committed. 2. Listen in two weeks to the managers of the fuel and energy complex about the measures used to eliminate the shortcomings and abuses identified by the parliamentary commission of inquiry. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sivuliski, please. From the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u62	Mikola Sivuliski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, a member of a special temporary special commission. Dear colleagues, today the people want to hear from us the concrete results of the work -- the answer to the question of gas prices is too high? The answer given by the commission is yes, it is exaggerated. How much is too much? Just as Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko said, the price is four times higher than the cost, and the commission confirms it. These are facts! Now let's talk about what's going on here in the Supreme Council. You remember, Bismarck, who, in order to solve the war with France in general, put several comas in a neutral letter. Andrew, I'm sorry. No, I didn't. Andrey Leonidovich did not make the decisions that came out of here. I quote paragraph two of our decision: “The State is lost, in fact lost control of the process of production and implementation of Ukrainian gas”. What did we hear? In 2005, he was executed. Dear friends, what, did 2004 have control? No, it wasn't, no, it wasn't. And you don't have to ask Timoshenko again that she's guilty of everything. The daughter - in - law is always guilty. Dear friends, you don't have to bring a society into Oman. It wasn't Timoshenko who broke the $50 deal, it was Igor Voronin, whom Timoshenko kicked out of work, and he was reinstated after the government resigned. And the date stands on January 4, this year, when Julia Timoshenko was gone. Don't mislead society, I'm asking you. And now, with regard to the situation that was created in the oil and gas complex. It was Timoshenko who was the first to create government commissions led by headCRO specialists who tested the activities of 26 monopolies. And it was her government that started the process of orderizing in this area. Control has begun to regenerate. What the results of this control are, we know perfectly well what the budget is. 3.5 billion. In the first few years of the world’s history, the world’s population has grown to the point where it has grown to the point where it has grown to the point where it has grown to the That was just the first step. Today, we should say the following. Dear friends, unfortunately, have interrupted the song. Regrettably, the proposals put forward by the government have not been implemented. The essence of the proposals is that all monopolies, including NAC, Cruise Station, Energo Atom, are built on the principle of financial holding, where everyone works, hundreds of thousands, and one person manages money. Such a system cannot be effective. We need to put an end to this financial pyramid. It is she who gives rise to abuse. And that's what we've been proposing, and I think the question of our honour is to support these proposals and finally implement them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u63	Bondarchuk has the word. This is not from the faction, but from the MPs who signed up. Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u64	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies. Vasil Bogchuk Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ternopolishte We understand not so much from the report of the commission of inquiry, but from the conclusion that today, indeed, the state has lost control of the process of extracting and implementing Ukrainian gas. And there's probably no Ukrainian citizen of doubt here today. The findings of the Interim Investigation Commission showed that the gas sector of Ukraine is a ship without propellers and sails. This is already cloudy water to fatten sharks from privileged business. Where else could it be heard that indirect costs in the cost structure are up to 72 percent. What are these calculations? What kind of economy is that? Why did no previous government talk about this? It's hard to believe that these lowlifes with natural gas prices, when there's actually no methodology to calculate the cost of their production, are created just when the attention of the whole society is attached to this sector of the economy of the state. How could it be that, for 10 months now, just talking at all levels about gas market problems? And none of the experts asked what was the real price of their own product? Does it correspond to the objective value of natural fossils? Where, then, are our ministries? Why is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy silent? Where are these structures with their audit offices, their fiscal inspection bodies? Where let me ask the appropriate Inspectorates, including the control of the prices of the Mineconomy. Where is Naftogaz? Where does the Ukrainian Security Service look? Ministry of Internal Affairs? The Attorney General? And if it wasn't for the investigator's commission today, everything would still be quiet! Everything would be fine! From the conclusions of the interim commission of inquiry, one conclusion is clear and clear: in Ukraine, no one knows the real price of natural gas for Ukrainian production. There's no single costing methodology, there's actually no real cost of the product, there's no reliable calculation of how much we're producing today. This raises a very legitimate question: “How do we set the price for real gas?” Does this not indicate that 95 dollars for a thousand cubic metres of gas and 114, and 314, and 500 bracelets that come from different stands is a filk's letter. We looked at the ceiling and set a number for ourselves, and you, the citizens, pay well. We today need to say that today’s discussion should not only be of an economic nature but also of a political and criminal nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Vasil Stepanovich, if we didn't know the real price, no one would do the gas. They do because they know the price and they know what the profit is. Insomnia, please. Puppy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u66	Dear friends! Those questions that concern not only us today but the entire Ukrainian people are not easy coincidences that they are actually becoming so acute today. And in any case, I'm convinced that you and I are just going to have to take a powerful step forward in the direction that we've long needed to do. Society has a right to know everything about what happens in monopolies such as NAK Naftogaz, energy companies, railways, and others. And you and I, as representatives of society, have to have all the important influence on the situation in those monopolies. I would like to say that, unfortunately, we can't be half pregnant, and if we're gone and we want to, really, learn the truth, let's look for the truth. I have not heard, unfortunately, the answers from you, Andrew Leonidovich, to my colleague's questions. Why this audit was not conducted before 2005. You never answered. Indeed, there is criticism that poor human resources policy. I support you in this regard, I support you, really. Indeed, the untransparent decisions were. But let's say that since 1999, this is the beginning of the creation of NAK “Natagaz”. Also in the speech by Mr. Menduz's distinguished colleague, when he listed NAK's leaders “Natogasu”, let's be frank. You forgot about Mr. Kopilov, about Mr. Boyk, whom I personally consider a professional, but the conditions were such that on Melnicka's films, unfortunately, you remember when Azarov, when Mikola Janovich Azarov, when he can't report 200 million. President Kuchmi's bracelet, which is from NAK Naftogaz, was the same. [[I don't know if it's true or not.]] So let's really, if we want to analyze the whole history of this monopoly and do this control, let's do this, and in this respect, we just support you. As far as gas prices are concerned. Dear friends, well, I suggest you approach this professionally. You don't have to speculate and push the government into a deadlock, because better than Yuri Anatolyevsky Boyka, no one can answer for the real cost and the cost of this production right now, and it has to be determined at the national level, what are we doing with the gas of our own production? Speculation about the so-called very cheap price of electricity. I don't understand, for example. Why can't professional colleagues who led the nuclear station and at the NC Energoatem answer that the price of nuclear power worldwide is also higher than that of heat? Why do we allow these speculations? As for another commission assignment. Andrey Leonidovich, you're commissioning the National Energy Regulatory Commission a draft decision. Yes, we cannot give this commission, unfortunately. Now the situation is that the NCR is completely subordinated to the government, and it's the government today, unfortunately, that's actually responsible for the situation. So let's professionally help the government solve this problem, not politicize it the way we do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u67	Instead of Mankovsky's word, he's got a Supper. Please. Then Calchenko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u68	Deeply respected Alexander Alexandrovic, deeply respected people of Ukraine, who are present! I'll be short as a member of the commission of inquiry. The topic of natural gas to date is the most relevant topic, the strategic security of our country, and it depends on virtually all the life and industry of our Ukraine. There's been a lot of trouble in this industry. You can't blame everyone. Today, both the President and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Fuel and Energy and the Chairman of the NAC, Naftegaz Ukraine are concerned. There are many problems that we must all work closely on today. And we need to help everyone today to put order in this industry. First of all, the fact that the price of natural gas is too high has indeed been fulfilled. According to the Commission of Inquiry, the cost is 124 bracelets. From this, my proposals are: there must be two prices – one price for the population and the second price should be for industrial enterprises in order to balance. Let's move on. Some enterprises, in particular we have a certificate of the VAT on “Ukranafta”, which was supposed to supply natural gas to the population, and it supplied as a source of raw materials for the production of mineral fertilizers. Here, I think we also need to adjust and make proposals about where this gas is going. The natural gas population requires 18 billion dollars for the total production of its natural gas by Ukraine of 20 billion cubic metres. The second question is: there is a need for order in the procurement of logistics supplies today. The prices are very high, we must also help Naftogazu Ukraine, and, distinguished by Alexander Alexandrovic, we should propose to the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers to include the people's deputies in the monitoring board and tender committees. And the last. We need to help the Government to order the distribution and supply of natural gas as a population and as an industrial enterprise and not to find the ultimate one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Kalchenko Valeriy Mihajlovich. He's gone. Oh, there's, uh, excuse me, Valery Mikhailovich. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u70	Honourable Head, Honorable Government Members, Honorable Deputies The questions raised today were raised by the Association of Urban Heads of District Centers and they rose, in my opinion, highly qualified and on the basis of legality. And one of the questions that was raised was that we said, well, is it transparent today that prices are being developed both for the population and for housing and utilities? Unfortunately, prices rose to both electricity and gas during 2006. And the government is well aware that there is the Housing and Utilities Act, where article 31 stipulates that if the state raises prices, there should be compensation appropriate in the local budgets. And the second question that's raised is why today there should be two prices: the price for the population, and the price for housing companies, which then provide services to the same population? So I'm going to the government and I want to say, if the government today really says that it's a people, that it wants to do something good for the population, then we have to do, in my opinion, three key things. First, the cost of gas is known to be 124 bracelets, fixed by you, and fixed by a temporary commission of inquiry. Set this price for the population in the near future is the first. Secondly, we will probably be making changes to the 2006 state budget. Local budgets should be given what the government and the state owe today through appropriate grants. And the third. We heard a gas balance. 21 billion we're getting, 19 billion we need to take into account housing needs. To the great conviction of the managers of the cities of district subordination and non-district, gas prices should be the same for both the population and for residential households. Because eventually because of them, because of the heat tariffs, it does fall back on the population. So the challenge from the population, from the leaders of the cities of the district and other cities to the government was thrown out. We want to see how the government responds to the very clear questions that fit the current legislation of Ukraine. If we start to change again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u71	Alexander Petrovich, the order is exhausted if you insist. I happened to be four minutes ago when I announced Calchenka. Please speak. If you can, cut it short.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u72	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. I think it shows today that the issue of control, parliamentary control over the activities of one or the other government structures, is being addressed. And what's happening now, that is, when the coalition works, and the coalition government works, is already showing that today, for the first time in many years, we're raising control issues and we want in this situation, in particular in this area, to set some order. I would like to ask myself some questions today and ask them to experts and all of us. Did this disease arise today with the provision of gas to Ukraine? Is there a deficit today? Has this bomb been planted for more than a year, and as today, we have the appropriate results? Please tell us, who was being hampered by the scheme in which we received 25 billion cubic metres for the transit of gas, Russia was paying us with gas. Or when we received five billion gasses of $50 of so - called technical or, let's say, when our own, our own production covered all the needs we needed for utilities and for the population. All of these schemes were, and pretty good, broken down because they didn't let some profit and earn money, respectively. There was a drag on the rope. When we talk about which structure supplies gas or other, the change in governments has often been observed when we wanted to replace the structure with, so to speak, closer, loyal to ourselves. And that worked quite well. And perhaps what destroyed schemes, especially by Prime Minister Timoshenko, is the result of today’s disrupted gas supply schemes, as well as the disrupted oil supply schemes, when there are four oil factories. I have one more question today. Why does the Black Seaftegas of Ukraine sell gas to whom it wants instead of selling it on its own market for the population, for the municipal economy, when our legislation requires it to do so in order for the gas of its own production to go to the needs of the municipal economy? Once again, people neared were to a certain body that now runs this company, they have access, they have licenses, and unfortunately, this practice continues. I think that these hearings in Parliament today will just put an end to this issue. I think that in other areas, some will think that Parliament is taking more stringent control over the activities of the relevant structures, which may need to be stopped by someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u73	Thank you. We need to sum it up and make a decision. The point is that the temporary special commission made interim information, we heard it, we have conclusions, we have thoughts expressed by the meeting participants. It is proposed that the information, as provided for by the Rules, be taken into account and, on the basis of proposals by the head of the interim commission of inquiry for 3 months, that is, by the new year, by 30 December of this year, submit a final report to the Supreme Council of the Commission, if necessary, to ensure that the Office of the Attorney-General or other law enforcement agencies are contacted, if necessary. And at the same time, to prepare draft laws on regulation of the gas market in Ukraine and other documents, i.e. to turn to, I mean, in this case, protocolly to the Cabinet of Ministers on the preparation of draft laws on this subject. If you do not object to such a decision by the Supreme Council, I would like you to vote on this proposal. Who for, please bring it in, please make up your mind. [[11:39:36]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. The Cabinet of Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers is hearing about the provision of natural gas to the population and to utilities and tariff and pricing policies for energy carriers used for household needs. 15 minutes to report, 10 minutes to respond. Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Klavav Andri Petrovich on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u74	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, present. The situation with significant price rises since July this year for residential services is a legitimate investigation of a very low level of fuel-energy management in the past year and a half. The problem was established as early as 2005, when NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's management refused the previously signed contracts, according to which Ukraine received 26 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year for $50 as a transit fee. Later, as well as the effective actions of the same leadership, the Turkmen contract was lost, which ensured the arrival of 36 billion people in Ukraine. $44 cubes per thousand cubes. To these defeats of the international level, we must add to the absurd actions that a series of highly questionable commercial transactions were carried out in the winter of 2006. So 2 billion. cubes of natural gas of its own, which we know is cheaper imported, were directed at individual industries, and imported gas at prices of three times higher for the population. As a result of this and similar NAC Naftogaz Ukraine operations, the first quarter of this year alone amounted to 3.5 billion. That's right. There have been numerous purchases of equipment at several times the price. As an example, only pumps have been purchased for ten years in advance for 200 million years. A bracelet, but God is with him for ten years. So they're not technologically fit and they're in stock at the time. Another example. More than 100 million were shipped. The money for the extra issue of counterfeit stocks. The stock issue is not done, and as we understand it, the money is gone. And such examples, unfortunately, I can bring up a lot. What “perceptive hands ” were concerned with“ leadership, economic calculations, thefts, disorder, complete irresponsibility and misinformation of the community of national deputies and of the President of Ukraine. I don't want to judge, I don't want to judge actions that destroyed the entire company's database the night before the new NAC Naftogaz leadership came in. Let the law enforcement authorities evaluate such actions. I just want to say one thing. The settlement of all NAC losses on Naftogaz Ukraine, the concealment of all management weaknesses, was put into increasing the price of gas for the population and housing and utilities in June 2006. How did the coalition government start working in August? An inter-ministerial balance sheet commission was set up, in front of which Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine, set up the task: First. Lower rates on residential services for the population. The other one. Order the economic activities of state monopolies. Third. Ensure the preparation of residential and utility enterprises and PEC enterprises for the winter. Four. Make a transparent balance between fuel and energy. The commission began working with the Supreme Council commission in August. During the tests, reserves were found to reduce the cost of own natural gas production, which gives the following reasons: First. Reduced prices for natural gas for the population The other one. Improving tariff policy. Third. Identifying new approaches and principles to protect socially vulnerable species from the effects of rising world energy prices. What are the conclusions and suggestions of the government of our coalition: First. It is proposed that the price of natural gas, which is used by the population, should be reduced by 75 dollars, except for heating. She will. [[Applause]] It's going to be 339 dollars per 1,000 cubes. This discount will affect 6.8 million Ukrainian families. The other one. In order to protect the most vulnerable species, we propose to introduce a differentiation of natural gas prices, which is used by the population to heat up depending on the extent to which it is consumed or the heating of the square meters of housing where there are no counters. Families who consume up to 3.5 thousand cubic metres a year are offered an area of up to 100 square meters, offering to lower the price of gas by 20 percent of the base. We have about 2.6 million of these families. Next. Conjuncts that consume up to 9,000 meters per year are between 100 and 200 square meters. Uh, it's suggested to leave it at the base level. We have 2.7 million of these families. That's $339. The one who consumes up to 12,000 gas. Cube. m per year, the area between 200 and 400 sq.m. We're going to get 73 percent higher gas, I'm going to take the base, we're going to get 120,000. And the last. For those who consume more than 12,000. Cube. m per year, this is the area, where there are no counters, the area is more than 400 square meters, the price is going to go up more than twice. We have about 40,000 of these families. So we can protect low-security population categories. I offered you a principled approach. And we're going to propose these approaches to the deployment of electricity. It takes about two months to implement our proposals. Preparation, that is, until December of the month. At that time, we will have to take into account new prices for imported natural gas for 2007. Therefore, it is appropriate to introduce a formal approach to the calculation of tariffs. At present, negotiations are under way with the governments of Russia, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan on the level of natural gas prices. We hope that by the end of October we will already know the prices for 2007 of imported gas. These are our proposals that are appropriate if we are able to gather together all the gas that is being extracted in Ukraine and send it to consumption. To this end, honourable national deputies are invited to adopt laws to amend the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations and on the Stability Fund for Natural Gas Resources. At the same time, in 2007 social guarantees will be fully preserved, which are given to the benefits and under-supply categories of citizens. Especially. about 8.5 million war veterans, the Armed Forces, the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the CHAES accident, the children of the war, are being used to pay for residential services. In addition, the current housing grant program empowers underprivileged citizens to pay for natural gas consumption and other municipal services within the limits of established standards of not more than 20 percent of family income. Some one million Ukrainian families receive this government support. Next. The government proposes to increase the level of social security for families that are made up of pensioners and other disabled citizens. Such families, on our offer, will be able to obtain the right to pay for housing services up to 15 percent of their income. The rest of these costs will be provided by state subsidies. The government is developing a program to economically replace natural gas with domestic coal, electricity, and other alternative forms of energy. It is the task of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine to move away from the gas. We don't have enough gas, we don't get enough gas, so we're going to have all the money, like we're going to be sending state funds to refurbish blacksmiths to switch to electricity, to burn oil and other kinds of energy carriers. Therefore, requests, honourable national MPs, to enact a law amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to stimulate energy conservation measures. Number 0941. We adopted the bill in the last cadence in the first reading. Therefore, the request to return to this bill and accept it in a second reading. The proposed measures provide for the necessary level of protection of low-income populations and the introduction of the principles of social fair tariff policy, allowing for a balance of prices for natural gas and other energy for tariffs, for energy services. Please, taking into account the information on this subject, re-examine the tariff issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u75	Andrew Petrovich, the MPs will now sign up for your question. I'm asking you to do this. In the meantime, answer my question. Your proposals that relate to prices, tariffs, principles and so forth are already formulated by a Cabinet ruling or something else, because it's not a parliamentary function, can't we consider this issue? What is the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u76	The methods have already been worked out, we need a few days to confirm how we would like this issue to be considered first, my information, on the Supreme Council, and then soon this methodology will be approved at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u77	I mean, it's gonna be a decree formed by the Cabinet of Ministers, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u79	Okay. The question is asked by Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u80	Can I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u81	Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u82	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Andrew Petrovich, nice, nice information. And don't you think that the completion of your information would require a sincere thank-you to the faction of BUT and the faction “Our Ukraine” for that. That they were the first ones to raise this problem and make the government do what he's doing now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u83	I am very grateful to all the Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u85	And the government has started this work since the first day of its work. On August 3rd, we started working, and on August 4th, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic had already signed the order of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to create a balance sheet commission, and we were tasked with dealing with the issue of lowering tariffs for housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u86	Thank you. Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u87	Andrew Petrovich, Winsky, next question. The Special Commission's report just described the cost of gas in the Crushing System. You know, this company provides 100 percent for the population itself, 94 bracelets. You called the number 339. So if the screw was four times before, now the screwdriver is 3.5 times. What is the heroism of such a situation? What is the heroism of lowering a price that still exceeds three and a half times the real price that it should be?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. The government has analysed the pricing of the fuel-energy complex that extracts gas. The cost of gas production was analysed. In addition, however, the cost of transporting gas, large transit, and small transit were analysed. Next. There were also VAT, there are resource taxes, there are extraction taxes. So we've reduced the cost at the expense of that. Can I speak Russian?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u89	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u90	The cost of all costs has been fully analyzed, and all the more than that, we have taken away. Besides, that means everything that's been going on here. translated completely here are the shortcomings that were previously transferred to the cost of this tariff, and we also removed them. We have said this: everything that was before is done by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and it is not necessary to transfer to our population, for the tariff on housing and utility services the shortcomings that have been carried out and for the leadership of the Naka “Neftegaz Ukraine”. We've taken this case away, zeroed it, reduced the profitability of those mining companies that are extracting gas in Ukraine. The following costs remain: cost, and, in addition to cost, there are additional costs – these are transport costs, further costs – transportation costs, further costs of freight costs, further costs added tax, there are charges for nadra, there are rents. [[This is "Transgas"]] [[There, by the way, we've been very serious about this level of profitability, leaving two to three percent at the rate of profitability.]] This is when all of us have fully analyzed the issues and put them in balance, it's not 414, it's 339. This is a substantial reduction. In addition to that, we have proposed further in the methodology. Here it sounded very right from a colleague from the BUT faction: why does the population living in their own homes receive 339 gas, and the population living in the panel “breaths” gets 686 gas imported. We now have a balance sheet: about 19 billion cubic metres of gas -- it consumes the population and 13 billion cubes of gas -- that's an extra, plus 13 billion cubes of gas, so we're using housing and utility, that's for boilers, for heating large nine-storey, large-panel houses. So in our methodology, we're offering a weighted average, which is the gas first, so that we can get all the gas that we have in Ukraine. We've got about 20-21 billion. And this is for us to gather him, we suggest, we ask that these two laws be passed. Next, so we have the remainder of the gas deficit that we need to create and need for housing and utilities -- that's going to be within 12, up to 13 billion, depending on the price. Then we do the weighted average, and we already do the weighted average in a differentiated way. Where the poor, where they live up to 100 square meters and we have, where there are counters, we're converting them into billions, into millions of cubes, back to thousands of cubes, there's up to 3.5 thousand. If there's no counters there, it's 100 square meters, that's square meters. And we've taken a differentiated approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u91	Andrew Petrovich, you've just started speaking in Russian what you've already told in Ukrainian, you know. The question was that the holiday price of self - worth should not be as multiple as it was now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u92	We have, according to our tax laws, I am very much in charge, according to our Tax Laws, unfortunately, there is a cost, so, then here are all the rents, nadra fees, they are above, i.e. they must be paid with profit. If we change the Tax Law, then all these payments will come at a cost. So, yes, there's a cost of 124, and there's 109, well, depending on the extractor's company. It's on Black Seasneftegase - 148, well, get out of the shelf. It's more complicated than that, but they're costing themselves. After they have become self-sustaining, they must pay all these extras on profit, which is why it is the price. Amend the Tax Act. Then we're not going to have a cost of 148. We're going to have a gross cost of 248. Or maybe it's not 124 for some company, it's 214.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u93	Right. The request is that you monitor the profitability of those companies that work in this market. And this right here is the position of the government, in my opinion, you gave me information about that. Meanwhile, Hara will ask you another question, and you will answer it too. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u94	Dear Andrei Petrovich, I say immediately, our party, in favour of overcoming the veto, never thought that the situation in the State was just as hopeless as what you reported today. I have two small questions. What you said in your report and the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee is evidence of the harm, corruption and theft of individuals. Why materials are not sent to the Attorney-General's Office for criminal proceedings and for the punishment of those responsible. And the second question. What can be the effect on the population if we do not cancel today's moratorium on rising housing and utility prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u95	All the results of the verification, but the verification is not yet complete, it is still under way. But the preliminary results have all been sent to law enforcement. And the gruesome fact that the night he arrived the following morning was due to the arrival of the new head of NAKA, Naka Oilgasa Ukraine, in fact, the entire database in the computers had disappeared. And now it is necessary to restore the entire activities of NAKA “Uftegaza Ukraine” by paper carriers. As far as the consequences are concerned. If the situation does not change, the losses on Naku will be more than six billion dollars per year. Next. For housing and utilities, more than 3.5 billion grevens will be lost. And there will be more than one and a half billion electricity losses. So that's the price of a question somewhere in 11 billion bracelets. Few, of course, can be said that we can protect the population. We protect the population, but we must always tell people the truth. We must ensure that those who are underpaid must be protected socially. The people who can pay, and here we have proposed a differentiated tariff, they have to pay. But we see in examples that gas is growing at a price. He'll be in Moldova next year, I'll give you an official statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u96	Let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u97	Somewhere over $200 per thousand cubes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u98	They're richer, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u99	Yes, that is why we must, first and foremost, protect those sectors of the population that cannot pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u100	Andri Petrovich, we had a question in the interim committee report, but there was no answer, regarding the loans that NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” took. Under what guarantees has this been done? In the early 1990s, a decree was adopted that prohibits the granting of State guarantees for foreign loans. And now it turns out that the company takes and, by the way, the state company, which guarantees and the budget should be calculated. I don't think that's right. Do you know anything about this? Where did that money go? Where are they implemented? Who did the reporting on this matter, or what does the situation look like?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u101	At this time we're dealing with credit lines, they've been raised about $2 billion, and a lot of these loans are directed, well, in such a direction that they're needed to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u102	Well, you can answer in Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u103	Well, according to the wallets, I can't say that. But all I did was give examples of 200 million grevens buying pumps. These pumps are not operational at all, even if they are usable, they are purchased 10 years in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u105	I'm not talking about the little things, the cars and stuff. It's all small.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We take note of the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers and also the report that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue under discussion today will be taken shortly, where the prices and electricity tariffs will be clearly set, the gas for the population, including tariff differentiation, what was required of the Supreme Council and what was discussed here by Andri Petrovich Kljev. There's a 30-minute recess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? According to the 27th article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two factions -- the Communist faction and the faction of the Party of the Regions ask for a recess of 30 minutes. A break until 13/10 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize first for the delay, because the factions that took this break in the long discussion have discussed this issue and we can consider it. But I would like us to act absolutely in the procedure defined by the Rules, because article 48 of the Rules provides that the Committee of Specialists, in this case, on the subject of the Rules and on the question of parliamentary ethics should reach its conclusion. That is why there is no such committee at this time. We'll consider this in the morning after the committee decides on the substance of the matter. It's about a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council regarding the moratorium. So once again, I'm going to announce that this is going to be the first issue tomorrow, and now we're going to talk about the transfer. It's now. There is a proposal by Bronnikov's deputy author of the bill, which has a registration number of 2251 on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Stability Fund for Natural Gas Resources. And since this question is also not considered by the committee, it should be moved to a later date. Actually, let's say I and 0823 and 2251 suggest we move on later. Yeah, I am. Please. That's what I'm saying. That is why the consideration is later. Please. I put to the vote this proposal to postpone the consideration of these issues. Please sit down. [[13:45:24]] For 245 Decision taken. Yesterday we voted in favour of a reduced procedure to consider issues that we did not finish. Draft Act amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the right of religious organizations to use the land on a permanent basis]] [[Stretovica project]] Is Vladimir Mikolaiovich there? There is a co-reporter, the head of the subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations. Please. I repeat, he has not repealed the law. Yesterday he wrote an application for his consideration later, since he did not have it, he became ill. That question was in the order of the day. I'll put it to the vote so I can transfer it to later. I'm betting on the vote to postpone this bill. Please support the transfer, because there is no report. Please, there's a vote. [[13:46:50]] For 303 It's a question. Draft Decision on 100th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Ukrainian author Irina Wilde. [[Pisarczuka project]] Is there a Pisarczuk? Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests! Dear Alexander Alexander! For your consideration, a draft decree on honoring Irina Wilde’s memory from the 100th anniversary of her birth is proposed. Since even in this room there are questions to be heard, and who is this, let me remind you that Irina Wilde is an outstanding Ukrainian writer whose works were twice issued by the 5th volume. [[Daria Dmitrovna Polonník]] At the height of her creativity was the novel "Sisters of the Richinsky" about the tragic fate of the Galician people in the 1930s, which literature criticises as one of the best socio-psychological novels of Ukrainian literature. For this work, a writer in 1965 was awarded the Shevchenk Prize. To some extent, this novel is autobiographical, because Darya Dmitrovna herself was born in Chernivts, her childhood passed under the conditions of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, her youth during the Romanian occupation regime, her family moved to Galicin in 1923, and the conditions of Polish colonial rule took place in the creative form of a future liturgy. The years of German - Fascist occupation become extremely difficult for her because in October 1943 the Gestapo destroyed her husband, Eugene Polotnjak. But this did not break the writer, for the most difficult years of the Beroean rule she courageously defended her repressive companions, sought the true enlightenment of Ukrainian history, for which she enjoyed great respect for the people and was elected deputy to the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR, the Lviv District and City Councils. She was a member of the Soviet Union of Writers. For a long time, she headed the Lviv branch of the Writer Association. Paul Zagrebélýný said of her: “The great Irina Wilde in the defense of justice.” That's exactly the life position and literary talent of Irina Wilde that gave UNESCO reason to count it among the famous people of the 20th century. So I would like to support the draft decision on the 100th anniversary of the great Ukrainian writer Irina Wilde, who, by the way, compared to the merit of this person, foresees very modest expenditures from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u110	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Just don't ask the content of the novel “Sisters of Richinski” right now, because it's a little bit off topic. Scybenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u112	Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u113	Dear reporter! No questions asked, we will definitely support it. But do you not feel that it is best to honor Ukrainian writers by being concerned about Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture? I want to say that for the first time in the history of Ukraine, and the U.S.R., including the report by First Vice-Prime Minister Azarov, was so unique that he did not even mention the word “culture”. I mean, it's a foreign word for him, he didn't even mention it. Next. When the government of Tymoshenko laid 30 million dollars for the development of the Ukrainian language, it was now reduced to 21. Now in Ukraine 0.7 books per capita, namely, Azarov and Yanukovic will read one book for two. This is today's budget. So the historical memory, the culture of this government, is foreign. And you think that by honoring a writer, even a worthy one, we can solve the problems of Ukrainian culture?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u114	I am not Azarov or Yanukovich, and I think they have heard your question and will certainly consider it. And you had the opportunity to say that in the budget discussion. I'm talking about Irina Wilde. Please, the Supreme Council, accept this bill and thus honor this man. What touches me personally, I too will find the opportunity to find funds to somehow participate in these celebrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u115	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Kendzer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u116	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Peter Ivanovich, I address you as a countryman, a Galician. I am delighted that it is you who have taken this initiative to honor Irina Wilde’s memory of the Jubilee, and I hope that your faction will support you unanimously, not as John the Baptist did. And, indeed, it's a good sign, your initiative, and I think you're going to move on and somehow work with the faction so that all of these, forgive me, schizophrenic ideas with a second national language will die in your faction forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u117	Thank you for your kind words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u118	Please, Ivan Boki. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u119	That's not really the question, and that's the words of gratitude that Irina Wilde mentioned. Well, the Lions, you know, all the people who knew her called her Nanashka. It was a kind word that reflected her character. But we are now celebrating a person with enormous literary gifts and enormous merit before his own literature. I think the best thing to do is to celebrate the Jubilee if her books were to be published. Sadly, Irina Wilde has long been out of the picture. And I think that the metenets who would like to get used to it would have done a good job if you had been re-examined by her teenage children and sisters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u120	Thank you. In fact, the writings of Irina Wilde, I said, appeared to be a five - volume edition, sadly in Soviet times. Today, this decision foresees that the government also find an opportunity to review the writings of Irina Wilde, although the “Sisters of the Rivers”. And, of course, we'll take your wish into account, I'll pass it on, it's heard by the lion's minions. I think they'll join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u123	What does the committee think about this? Vitenko Helena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not sure, but I'm going to take the view from the committee that we unanimously supported the draft of this decision and we urge you all to vote in favour of this decision. What do I have to say? Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that this, indeed, five political parties or blocs in the Supreme Council, this is every finger -- one political force, two, three -- we have to unite in secret, indeed, to think for our spirituality. And when it comes to honoring our glorious countrymen -- people who have glorified Ukraine, people who are poets, writers -- who have truly depicted and reflect the history of Ukraine, we must uphold these decrees, regardless of which political power who represents this position in the Supreme Council. I am very sorry that it was the previous decision to honor John Bagrian’s anniversary that was not voted on. I think this is the moment we need to fix with you. Because history, true history, no one gives us the right to forget or neglect it. You know, and then it happens. The wise French have the words of gold, the man said to her at dinnertime in life: “For youth to know so that old age may be able to reach them!” Then we quote Napoleon: “Whoever is in the past — from the gun, from the future — from the cannon.” Let's not shoot in the past! Indeed, the truth will help us to deal with the misery we have in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u125	I see there are no questions. So take your seat, please. I propose, considering both the document presented, and the content, the language goes even further, except in the past it's our colleague, and it's also the State Prize winner, the Shevchenk Prize, and the famous author. Of course, this decision requires support. I'm voting on the draft regulation on the 100th anniversary of the writer Irina Wilde. [[13:56:50]] For 407 407 national deputies support this proposal. And there is still a small decree: “The 2006 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government”. I ask, Nadosha, deputy head of the Committee on Sports and Tourism Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! Our committee, in accordance with the Rules, has considered proposals from district councils for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. The corresponding submissions have been submitted in a timely manner, all the candidates discussed, and the 10 prizes that we have in the budget, we propose to include in the ruling and to distribute according to those lists and the draft ruling that you have on your hands. The only situation we've had is that the Johno-Frankow District Council has decided to withdraw the candidacy it has supported. And I'd like to ask the deputies now to give permission to the committee to consider what is there for a reason and then to make an additional submission to the committee for consideration. And to vote in general for the draft decree given to you and in your hands, right now in this room, because we've already put it down three times and, according to the regulations, and before the award, we should have done it in April months. So there's a request: to vote, and then to put it all on the committee, and we'll consider what was there for the proposals of the Ivano-Frankow Council, and we'll make a decision, and we'll put it to the vote for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u127	I'm putting a draft ruling on the first reading. Any questions? Well, sign up for the question. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u128	I have a quick question. I'm just asking for the other half to pass on to Mr. Mikola Onichuk. I have a question of this nature: haven't the committee considered the possibility of not only rewarding parliamentary activity, and the possibility of creating any advisory body for young people in Parliament? Maybe it's a youth parliament, something else? For there will be no one to reward; there will be a reward for the young deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u129	I would like to say that there is a Supreme Council decree that obliges us to establish a position on this prize. And according to this situation, we don't have the right to create any extra organs there, but we just have to act clearly on the positions. These points do not provide for the creation of any other advisory body regarding the award of these prizes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u130	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u131	Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u132	I want questions and suggestions. Well, now that one person has been brought out of Ivano-Frankivsky, we've never had such a thing in our lives that we've never had to deal with it on a stand-alone basis. That's why we have to wait until there's another candidate. Maybe it's not from the region of Johno-Franco, from another area, maybe from a youth organization, according to the position, maybe a young MP from another region, and then we'll accept it at all. But for nine people alone, then for one, there can be no such thing. According to our position, we entrust the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with these awards each year. Why would we separate these people from each other? I should, I think it's always, I know, a tiny job. And that's why I think we need to work on taking into account other proposals and then take this decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u133	The only one is the observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u134	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u135	I would really like to accept that in the first reading. And that's the determination we've got going. I'd like to say that the only thing that's going to happen is that this year's budget is for the Supreme Council. So we can put all of this together. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u136	Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u137	Baburin, Zaporozhye, Communist faction. The provision for the Supreme Council was adopted on 22 May 2003, when the Presidential Parliamentary Republic was in Ukraine. Today we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. There are representatives of five factions in Parliament. And it would be logical, considering candidates for prize winners, to obtain proposals from factions according to the quota, perhaps the presence of factions in Parliament. I mean, we should. Therefore, ask the local councils, the district councils, to make their proposals. And we also have different opinions and different parties. And I think I'd like to send this order to be finalized, finalized, and then adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u138	We have the position of the Supreme Council, which has already been adopted by the Supreme Council. It has been in operation since January 1, 2004. It's in my hands, and it fully defines the process of giving advice to the district councils, and it's in my hands, and it's in the youth organizations, and the young deputies, it's all in its lines, which are prescribed here and accepted by the Supreme Council, which is us. And today we have, well, to understand that there is no point in changing both the position and the decision of the Supreme Council just now. We have the nominations that were submitted to the district councils, and they have all been considered. This should be addressed mainly to the district council and to those who served there and to those who served there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u140	But what we had, we looked at it, all the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u141	Have a seat, please. I don't think there's any need to discuss this? Well, please, let's not. One man insists on motive. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, since we are likely to proceed to the vote now, I ask you to continue the sessions, because we will then be outside the regulatory procedures. Second, I'd like to go to the reporter. When it comes to awarding a prize, it's very important that you report people's names. Because it's Parliament, it's broadcast across the country. And if they are worthy of such, such honor, I must ask them to name them, these names, because it is also a moral reward for them. And the third. However, please, when a council is called off, you have to tell them the reasons for which such submission has been withdrawn, because the will of the representative body has already been expressed. And if it does, there must be too many reasons to change the decision of the district council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-04-m0.u144	Have a seat, please. That's not a question. It was an offer, a statement of motive. Please take your seats. Have a seat. Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, MPs, the obvious thing that the question of principle and principle was discussed here is clearly no longer necessary. Agree with Mikola Vasilovich. If there's any appeal, it's better that it doesn't come here before the committee has to consider it, but in any case, I'm offering it as a basis for accepting it now, and the next day or the next day, let them make their proposals and then take a final look at it. So let's take it as a base. You have a project in front of your eyes. Please vote. [[14:05:12]] For 178. There's a document for auto-processing, we don't vote. Vote? Come on. I'm declaring factions. Please. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Block" – 107, "Ukraine" – 63, Socialists – 8, Communists – 0 and non-fractional – 0. Obviously, the arguments are taken into account here. I'm asking you about sending this project for processing over the week. Please. [[2:06:01]] For-129 Just for work, when the committee's ready, then let me know. Please. I'll bet, please. I ask you to vote on the drafting of this document. For processing. [[14:06:27]] For-142 The question is out of the question. The morning session is closed. Today, after lunch, committees work. Please.
