ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, September 15, Friday. I ask the deputies to sit down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:47]] There were 425 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. First of all, I would like to invite all of us to welcome our birthday, his anniversary today, Peter Andryovich Yushchenka, who is now 60 years old. Let us welcome him and wish him success. [[Applause]] Even if he's not in the hall right now, we still join in. Honorable deputies, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, have 30 minutes to make inquiries on Friday. I hope we can announce them by saving time. I am carrying out this responsibility, and I am announcing Alexander Golub’s request to the President of Ukraine for urgent measures to preserve the memorial museum of the outstanding Ukrainian artist John Hrośtecký. I would like to put to the vote the question of supporting the content of such a question as to the need for it to be addressed. Please identify yourself. [[10:03:25]] For-149 Well, I'm asking for a vote on sending such a request to the President. One second, I made the procedure clear. I'm sorry, I didn't say it clearly. To support the content of the request, 150 votes are required. To fix it, it takes 100. 226. I couldn't hear you. Is there a need to vote again? Then let us vote whether it is necessary to return to that question. Please identify yourself. [[10:04:29]] For 331 The MPs say there is a need, so I am putting to the vote the question of supporting the content of such a bill. There's a vote coming. [[10:04:52]] For 291 Agreed. That's the point. I now put to the vote the question of sending this question to the President. Please. [[10:05:16]] For 310 Decision taken. A group of MPs are asking the President to stop the process of destroying the area of medical care for employees and military personnel of special organs. [[TURCHIN, SAMOYELEN, SKYBINE, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] With regard to the content of such a request, it is important indeed, I would like your support. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:05:52]] For 324 324 deputies consider such a request important. I'm putting to the vote the question of sending him to the President. Please. [[10:06:15.]] For 350. 350 deputies support the need for such a direction. I also announce the requests made by Vladimir JAVORIY to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for systematic violation by the People's Deputies of the Constitution of Ukraine, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules for Language of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Eugene MARMAZOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on unlawful actions by the Deputy Head of the State Tax Police in the Kirovograd Region of Tesla in relation to the founders of the agricultural society with limited responsibility of “Vasino” of the Poznań Region of the Kirovograd Region. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to stop the process of destroying the area of medical care for workers and military personnel of special bodies. [[TURKEYS, SAMOYELEN, SKIBYNE AND OTHERS]] Alexia Feduna to the Attorney General on the improper investigation of a criminal case and the execution of the judgement of the International Commercial Arbitration Court at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General on the application of measures to prevent the secret privatization of the utility “Tele company Kyiv”, which is made possible by officials of the Kyiv City Public Administration. Teams of deputies to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on violations of the rights of the disabled. [[KOMAR, PAULENKO, EFREMOV]] Leonida GRAČ to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the improper investigation of criminal cases, on the fact that the budget is being used by officials of the Executive Directorate of the creation of the Single Republic Digital Territorial Cadastre in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Tomenka to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism regarding the unlawful actions of the city’s head, Leonid Czerniewecki, in conducting a session of the Kyiv City Council, contrary to its regulations, in a non - state language. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Kiev City Head for an unsatisfying review of the petition for violation of the rights of residents of houses on the street of Sortualna in Kiev at the wake of the “The Late West” microregion. Teams of deputies to the Head of the State Committee of Archives on the emergency status of the State Archives in Nizhin. [[KOMAR, PAULENKO, EFREMOV]] These are the parliamentary requests that have been announced, prepared by the National Deputies and in accordance with the Rules, they are sent to the relevant institutions in order to make use of the influence to remedy the situation, if there is, of course, a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u2	Procedures of what? On demand? Give the sleepless a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u3	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we all remember that in the last summoning of these questions -- it was a national disaster, when thousands of requests were announced every day. In the new Rules, which has been in operation since the end of the last cadence, there is a very serious and substantial restriction on parliamentary requests, that is, requests are made only in cases where there have been parliamentary appeals for which unsatisfactory answers have been received. This question is being considered, and only then is the whole Supreme Council being questioned. The exception is the MP's requests to the President of Ukraine, which were from the beginning and there's the right procedure. Otherwise, we will reopen the same “Pandora’s probe” and we will have two thousand requests to read every day on the subject: who has a goat died, who has a chicken running into a neighboring city, as was the case in the previous summons. So before this starts, I have a big request for the leadership of the Supreme Council not to start this outrageous procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u4	I think the MP is right in this case, because that's what I'm saying in the Rules, and I'm even grateful that he's pointing out in this respect, because I'm willing to announce those questions that weren't in the form of references that might have been answered by the institutions. This will simplify our work, shorten the time for such procedures in Parliament. It's good that you care about these things, but in this case the secretariat also uses this information. And perhaps there are such questions as have already been identified, for it is a matter of more than a few months from the time of Parliament’s new calling. Sulkowski, did you want anything? From the procedure? Or on the subject of questions? You don't have to. The questions are clear. From the procedure? Sulkowski, last speech out of the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u5	Dear Alexander Alexander! Thank you for the word. I, on the one hand, and I think the national MPs support and we agree with the proposal made by the previous MP, but please tell me, I would like to tell this deputy, that's the point: if the national MP makes a statement, and they give him an answer, and he's dissatisfied, then he asks a question. And if, for example, a person’s organs, whether law enforcement, or others, have been dragging for years, and a deputy. from his responses to one of his constituents, which, in fact, is a burden on individual authorities. So I think the MP himself just won't want to write that question without meaning. I think the MPs understand, so we need to take a good look. And I'd like to take this opportunity -- the Attorney General's presence to make the prosecutor, preferably. That the question is not being considered today, gave an answer as to why the Governor of the former Plains is not being violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u6	Paul Gnatovic, this once again confirms that you should read the Rules carefully, giving all the answers to the questions you have asked. Please move on to the day - to - day consideration. Honourable MPs, six years ago on September 16, 2000, were kidnapped by a prominent parliamentary journalist, George Gongadze. Georgia's gone. Each of us knows the causes and consequences of this tragedy. The journalist’s death has helped to wake up to Ukrainian society and has spurred the development of civil liberties in our country. For the first time, Ukrainian journalists took part in a solidarity campaign, and for the first time, tens of thousands came out to protest George’s murder. I think not too much if I say that it is with the action "Ukraine without Couchma" that real democratic changes have begun in Ukraine, and today's authorities are the result of these changes. Many MPs and journalists knew Georgia well and kept him in mind as a man and a professional who had worked for many years in the Ukrainian Parliament with deputies. I had to work with him too, and I kept our cooperation in mind. Dear colleagues, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, I ask everyone to honor the memory of Georgia Gongadze for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Before the hearing procedure. On September 14, the Supreme Council decided to listen to information from the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the state of criminal investigation into the murder of journalist Gongadze. In view of the social significance of this issue, I am proposing a regime that will allow us, in accordance with the Rules, to participate in the discussion of information not only to the national deputies of Ukraine but also to those invited under article 235, paragraph 3, of the Rules. In this regard, I would like to support such a procedure, and then I will announce a follow - up procedure. Please support, in accordance with article 235, paragraph 3, of the Rules, the procedure for dealing with this matter. Please. [[10:16:16]] For 386 386 deputies support this procedure. In addition to the deputies, of course, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Medvedzko Aleksandr Ivanovich, Prosecutor-General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Shubin Roman Ivanovich, former Major of the Protection Service Melnichenko Mikola Ivanovich, counsel Fedur Andrija Anatoliovich, Douglas Laki, chief expert of the “Bektek” company from the United States. Taking into account the proposal made by the Committee on Law Enforcement, as well as the decision we have made, such a hearing procedure is proposed. The Attorney-General's report – 20 minutes, answers to questions from Ukrainian national deputies – within 20 minutes, a report from the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Stretovic, within 5 minutes, will be less than 45 minutes, including five minutes each single speech. It is proposed to give the floor to one representative from each deputy faction, including Piscous Svetoslav Mihajlovich, the Ukrainian national deputy, the former Attorney General of Ukraine, and the ones I have invited to address this issue. And the summation is up to five minutes. Together it's about an hour 20, an hour 25. I ask you to support this procedure. Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:18:07]] For 383 Decision taken. It is also proposed that the outcome of the consideration of the matter should be the adoption of a provision provided for in the Rules mentioned in article 235 of the Rules. And you have this project on your hands. He's short, he's thin, I don't think he's giving anyone a hard time. So I am joining the Supreme Council of Attorney-General of Ukraine of Medveda Alexandre Ivanovich with information on the state of criminal investigation into the murder of journalist Gongadze. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the murder of George Gongadze, while in this important hall, I am forced, unfortunately, to say that the investigation into the criminal case of the deliberate murder of a journalist is not complete. Understanding the responsibility placed on the law enforcement agencies of society and politics, we will not stop a copy of the work until a final dot is placed on the case - a court decision on the buyers and organizers of this terrible crime. Investigations into a complex and resonant case are carried out by the most experienced investigators of the U.S. Attorney General’s Office. Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that for more than three years there were no specific suspects in the case, and only on October 22, 2003, a criminal case was committed against the former head of the Department of Operational Services of Ukraine, Pukatsa, for the fact that he was abused in his service position. The following day, he was charged with destroying documents that were of great evidentiary significance in the fact that Gongadze was killed and a precautionary action was taken in the form of custody. As a result of his repeated appeals to the courts of various institutions, he was released from custody and even canceled his criminal record. Despite the timely appeals made by the Attorney General for illegal court decisions, they remained in force, including during the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s review, and this is almost a year’s time for the pretrial investigation authorities to establish the facts of the case, to gather evidence on the one hand, and on the other, to avoid timely and just liability before the law. By not stopping on January 14, last year, the Attorney General’s Office, under the new circumstances, was severely charged with a criminal offence under article 166, part 1, of the Criminal Code of 1960, and part 3 of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It seemed impossible for him to make an accusation and take a precaution, since there was no place to find the Shooter. On January 24, 2005, the General Prosecutor's Office issued an order to allow Pukac to be detained and delivered to the court for a precautionary action in the form of a detention. Immediately, the accused was announced for a search, which was carried out at the appropriate time by the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs and Security. In February of last year, a criminal case was committed against Pukac and three of his subordinates for criminal investigation into the deliberate murder of journalist Gongadze and the excess of authority and official authority. The criminal responsibility of the direct perpetrators of the murder, except for Pukac, was brought to justice in March of last year. Kostenko, Protasov, Popovic confessed to the crimes committed and gave thorough evidence of the circumstances of the murder. On November 23, 2005, a criminal case brought against the persons in question by the prosecutor’s office was brought before the court, which is currently being tried by the Kyiv Court of Appeal. In a court that is now continuing, the defendants confirmed the testimony they gave to the investigators. This, on another occasion, demonstrates impartiality, objectivity, and correctness of the investigation, and proves that the crime is committed under the direction and with the direct involvement of Pukac. I am confident that the court will determine the defendant’s conviction and will order the appropriate punishment for the murder of a journalist. The case of Puchach and undetermined organizers and assassins for the murder of Gongadze has been set aside in separate implementations. What steps have been taken to locate the Puchach’s whereabouts? In May last year, the Attorney General's Office received information about his possible residence in the Russian Federation. For the purpose of extradition in accordance with the requirements of the SND Convention, the criminal investigators concerned the provision of legal aid for the search and detention of defendants. In June, the search for the Puchach was sent to the State of Israel by the head of the task force responsible for the investigation. Meetings and talks were held with representatives of local law enforcement agencies in connection with detentions, arrests, and extraditions to Ukraine. Further, the Office of the Attorney-General at the Ministry of Justice of the State of Israel sent all necessary procedural documents for the search, detention and extradition of the accused. In March of this year, on the basis of additional procedural documents, the State Prosecutor of Israel issued a warrant for Pukac’s arrest when he appeared in their territory. But unfortunately, while there is no positive result from the installation of the Pukač location, there is no detention. The investigation and search operations are now continuing to establish the defendant's whereabouts. Particularly carefully checked and checked for involvement in the murder of Gongadze, senior officials of the State, who claimed to be the national deputy of Moroz O.O. of November 28, 2000, at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With the support of the President of Ukraine, the people's deputies, the officials of the General Prosecutor's Office have made every effort to arrive in Ukraine and all conditions have been created for fruitful cooperation with the latter, including personal protection and other security measures. As you know, on November 28, last year, Melnichenko arrived in Ukraine. On December 6, 7, 8, 12, 2005, and twice in March of this year, he was questioned as a witness. During the interrogation, the representatives of Melnick, the victims of Miroslava and Lesi Gongadze, as well as the audio experts involved, were present. Sadly, the investigators did not receive the necessary testimonies to establish the truth in the case, as well as the original phonograph records. In doing so, he referred to the mistrust of the investigation as well as the need to reconcile his testimony with those of the victims. By the end of March of this year, Melnichenko had left Ukraine, and by this time, until today, no messages had been received from him. Despite Melnick's behaviour, as a result of active investigations, numerous copies of audio recordings have been received in the office of President Kuchma, according to current criminal and procedural legislation. Their literal content as a result of auditory, instrumental, and linguistic analyses indicates that oral speech in phonograms is likely to belong to Kuchmi, Kravchenko, and other government officials. And I'm just saying, it's probably. But since these objects are not original phonographs and there is no precise information on how to record them, experts cannot conclude whether they were subject to original assembly or other changes during or after the fixation of conversations. Therefore, it is not possible to resolve the issue of the existence of grounds for the criminal liability of higher officials of the State at this time for the above reasons. As a result, I call on Melnick to give the originals and thorough testimony to question the investigators. I would like to point out that the long term and the difficult course of the investigation are also due to objective reasons. First. In fact, the matter remained undisclosed from September 2000 until February 2005. Only then did the investigation receive reliable information about the murder of Gongadze General Puchach and his subordinates. It's different. The subjects of the crime were officers of one of the IMF's secret intelligence services, which was a major complication in the work of the task force. Third. The fact that he used his position as Puchach, he destroyed all the documentation of an operational character that could prove illegal actions against Gongadze. Fourth. The failure to locate Pukach has had a very negative effect on the state of the investigation, which is now not able to close the broken chain between the perpetrators and the buyers. Let's go. Let's go, The difficulty is that the case needs to be investigated outside the Ukraine of many nations. In addition, more than 20 international investigations were commissioned in these countries. And the former law enforcement officials here know how long these tasks are being carried out, for quite a long time. As an example, on September 6, 2002, the issue of providing legal aid to one of the nations, which, despite repeated reminders and appeals, remains unfulfilled until now. In support of my words, I have to say that a large amount of work has been done in the matter. The scope of the criminal case in connection with the murder of Gongadze is 110 volumes. As witnesses, over 1,500 people were interviewed, including state officials, government officials, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, and other authorities. More than 80 forensic and forensic experts have been appointed and conducted, 30 of which were forensic and phonoscopic, and more than 30 reproductions of the circumstances and circumstances of the crime have been carried out. The fact that there is a copy of the case is also confirmed by the fact that another crime has been detected during the investigation. Thus, on January 24, this year, the Attorney General’s Office for the attack on journalist Doloski concerning Pukač and his two subordinates was charged with a criminal offence, as provided for in part two of article 166 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, in the 1960 ’ s. The trial found that it was externally monitored in May-June 2000 by the Departments of Criminal Investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. To the organizers and directly involved in the surveillance and capture of the victims was the Puchnik, at the time the first deputy head of the designated administration and two subordinate militiamen. As you can see, the honourable deputies, your attention to the perpetrators of the crime, are still the same Colonel and Special Forces officers. This fact is circumstantial evidence of the Puckac's guilt in killing Gongadze. On June 6, this year, a criminal case involving accused criminal officers in the commission of a violation of authority and official duties has not yet been brought to justice, and the case has not yet been considered. Materials relating to the Puchach and the failure to investigate the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who gave illegal instructions for the conduct and application of physical influences by the Dulsky State Department have been assigned to separate implementations and mergers with the case of the murder of Gongadze. The work of investigating a crime does not stop for a moment. Now, there are 16 phonoscopic experiments that are subject to digital and analog studies that have a total duration of over 600 hours. These expertise has been proven in the Ukrainian Security Service. Witnesses are being questioned, and three international legal aid concerns are being met in other countries. 13 tasks are being carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service for the conduct of the search and search, including the search for Pukač. In the course of carrying out these assignments, the employees of the U.S.S.S.S.A. this summer in the home of a Ukrainian citizen, the head of the charity found the defendant Pukac’s foreign passport. And during the test it was found that in June. For a year he was aware of the indispensability of criminal responsibility by his known police personnel, trying to resolve the issue of the design of a visa and the possible departure to India. In addition, to the extent necessary, law enforcement authorities are given additional orders to carry out search-and-rescue measures aimed at establishing objective circumstances for the commission of a crime. Dear National Deputies! I can't publish any more information about the investigation and the search and investigation, given the need to preserve the mystery of the investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, you've reduced the time spent on your information, and you'll be able to compensate for the answers to your questions. Please sign up for the questions. Teryohin, please. There's no Teryohin? Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u9	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Attorney General, you know, your report to me is simply evidence of great disgrace and barbarism of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities. That's my question. The disappearance of Kravchenk, the death of Dagayev – does not this even indicate the ordinary Ukrainian citizen, the benefactor, who thinks that a number of performers sit on the bench of the defendants. And there's a group of people, whether it's one person, for example, who's trying to exclamate the customers from the contractors. And the second question. I understand your concern about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. I want to report that the circumstances of Dagayev's death, they investigated and the death of Kravchenk's former Minister of Interior, you know that a criminal case has been committed, then a decision has been taken to close it, a court order has been annulled, and so the materials of the criminal case have been re-adopted by the Attorney General's Office. The situation of Gongadze’s death is being investigated and a decision will be made under the Law in the near future. I understand that the fact of the death of Dagayev, an ex-minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as the Minister of Internal Affairs of Kravchenk may raise some doubts in society, but I want to assure you that this work has been checked and verified as part of the investigation into the death of Kravchenk and the death of Dagayev, and this work is also being carried out as part of the investigation into the criminal case of the murder of Gongadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u12	Ruzitsky, please, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u13	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. Alexander Alexanderovich! Please pass the word to Matvienko, deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u14	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u15	"The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Alexander Ivanovich! Only two words could be left out of your information, such as the fact that the criminal rod is all - powerful and that the legal authorities are irresponsible and German. I take that as a fact. The question is, they killed Kravchenk, took Pukac under guard, released, escorted outside Ukraine. Who will be responsible? Why don't you say a word? And on the other hand, who does the third person need to be sent now to report again on this stand, that if this man were to be found, it would be clear. There are performers, there are records when you show character? Thank you. And make other law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. As far as Kravchenka is concerned, I've already given an explanation, and with regard to the judges who made the decisions, we can't decide how you put the issue in that plane about drawing on responsibility, because it's a decision the judge and the judge thought that there was no reason to keep and keep in custody, and there's no more reason to file a criminal case against Pucker. This decision was taken by the court and we appealed to the Supreme Court of Ukraine and unfortunately the Supreme Court also took that position. It's about being free. In order for me to show my will, she has to rely on the evidence that in a criminal case is based on a meeting under criminal law. I announced in my speech why we could not make a decision, since we do not have the correct conclusion of the audio specialists who made them. And that's why I emphasized in my address to Melnick that I would still meet with the investigator on this arrival and give you those shows where the questions are posed and the originals of the records, if he has them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u17	The miner, followed by the Kurinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u18	Please give the floor to the deputy Boris Bezpaloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u19	Insomnia, “Our Ukraine”. After listening to your information, Your Honor Alexander Ivanovich, we have all come to understand why these matters are not being investigated and that at such a course of investigation it will not be investigated. Because it's a long-standing fairy tale that Lazarenko stole and killed everyone by the ubiquitous and lonely Pucker. So in connection with you, I have this question. When the ossification ends and the investigation begins, and who is the contracting authority that the investigation has not yet really begun and that it is blocked and that it will never begin. This is the question that I would like to hear at last a specific answer with the names of those who block the investigation. By the way, as in the case and murder of another journalist, Viacheslava Crnovola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. It's your personal opinion, and I've been saying, and I'm going to say now that the investigation of a criminal case over a long period of time, it hasn't stopped, there's a lot of investigation, there's a lot of operational action going on, and in order to answer the question, who's the contractor for this murder, we need to get evidence on it. If we receive evidence in the course of a pretrial investigation, we will call these persons and bring them to criminal responsibility. The reason why we can't do this right now is because I've already called and I'm not going to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u21	Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u23	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u24	Alexander Ivanovich! That's my question. I'm just as worried as you are about getting out of this confusing circle. But I think the solution was proposed in 2002 by a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was clear that both the lawyers and the family of Georgia Gongadze and the witnesses don't trust the Attorney General's office, and I understand that nothing has changed in this case. So there were two fundamental decisions of the PARE and the Supreme Council to conduct an independent investigation with the help of international experts, and even, in the State budget, 500,000 dollars were foreseen for experts to be identified by the Council of Europe to conduct an expert study on the Gongadze, Jelyashkevich and Dodolski talks. Why don't you let me know if it was done? And why, if it wasn't done, why did it happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. So the investigation was conducted according to the current criminal and criminal legislation of Ukraine. What you're saying about the involvement of international experts is you know that there have been expert studies of the body of Gongadze with the involvement of international experts. And that's why no one's hiding anything here, no curtain, everything's done according to the law. What about the criminal case regarding journalist Doloski? So I've already pointed out that this short term is being investigated, the evidence gathered, and it's going to court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u26	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Attorney General, I have two questions. First. Was President Leonid Kuchma questioned here that there was no reason to hold the highest public officials accountable if there was no reason to bring him to justice? Then you may have to apologize to him. And the second. How many days after the body of a murdered journalist was found near Tarsus, the general of the police arrived and gave an assignment. Is there any record of who it was? What arrangements did he make? So who was it, Mr. Attorney General? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I was saying that Kuchma Leonid Danilovich was investigating this criminal case as a witness. And he emphasized why there is no reason now, I repeat, for this time, there is no reason to hold a high official accountable. And so given the fact that Kuchma was asking us as a witness, the reason why we should apologize to him is that I don't see it for now. Answering your second question. This is what I understand, about the body's re-institution, I believe that in the course of the pre-trial investigation, we have collected evidence that the body of Gongadze was re-buried by the Pucker and his subordinates.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u29	There we had a different question, and there the general came and gave us an assignment. Who was it, don't you know? Is that in the investigation files?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u30	I don't have one. It's only about the funeral, it's proven.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u31	Okay. Tarasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u33	Please, Mundus Jaroslav Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u34	Jaroslav Mendoza. Aleksandre Ivanovich, Goncharov, left his life while in the holding cell of a previous prison; Kratchenko went out of his life while being watched by Ukrainian security forces; Puchnik disappeared after being arrested and investigated. Please tell me, which of the officials and what responsibility did the group of key witnesses in the Gongadze case not have?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. With regard to the death of Goncharov, a criminal case was committed, and law enforcement officials were held accountable. The case is being referred to the court. Regarding the individuals you call, I have already mentioned that no one has been called to account since the trial is being conducted, and the decision will be taken only after it is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u36	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Ivanovich! You answered a question that I wanted to ask you, in particular, whether the court's rulings were being sued in an appeal and cassation order. So I ask you to pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski. Alexandre Alexandrovich, may I have the floor to ask Yuri Klukkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u39	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Attorney General! You have used the term “General Pučak and his subjects” many times. Please tell us, how many officers were there in that unit under General Puchac? Are all their names known to the investigation today? What about these people today? How many of them are alive, how many have died, and how many have been searched? Which one of them was the investigator, and is the information that General Puchak had in his head only available to him and none of his deputies? What about these deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I called the names Kostenko, Protasov, Popovic by using "his subordinates". These are three of his subjects, three of whom are called to account. Besides, what's going on? I don't call these names about Kostenka, Protasova, Popovitch, because they've been called repeatedly, they're both called in court, and they all know, so there's no secret. In addition, by calling two subordinates, it is a crime committed against Doolski. I can't name these names, because the case, there are two subordinates who are called to account, the case is referred to the court. And when a legal decision is made regarding these persons, their names may be made public. I say that we call these persons who have been proved to be involved in crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u41	Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I have two short questions for you. First, did the investigation, as was really recorded in the President's office? Was it a tape recorder under the couch, or was it in another way? And the second question. Is it possible, yes or no? Is listening to the Cabinet of Ministers a criminal crime?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. So now in the course of the pretrial investigation, I said that there were 16 additional phonoscopy experiments, and after these experiments, we'll come to the final conclusion of how this tool was done. From the shows, there's no secret, from the shows Melnichenko gives, that he used a variety of tools, there's "toshiba" and there's other brands of these recording devices. But there's an expertise, something else that deals with this issue, and I can't call it now because of the secret of the investigation. What about listening in the President's office, whether it's a crime. I want to say that it was indeed a criminal case for exceeding the official powers of article 365, but then the case was closed due to the fact that Melnichenko acted in a state of emergency, so the case was closed under article 39 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and article 6, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Code. This question was studied in the Attorney General's Office and came to the conclusion that at the time of the study this decision was correct, but now, taking into account the results in these 16 additional phonoscopy experiments, if they are kept, the data that is there and the disclosure of the state secret and so on will be resolved accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u44	Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u45	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I think you will agree that in order to make decisions in our country, apart from jurisprudence, it takes political will to make decisions. Similarly, after the decision was made, security officers detained those on trial today. But I want to ask you, though, about the fate of those who ordered the murder, because these people just didn't have the motive to kill journalist Gongadze, so there were customers. And I want to remind you that during my leadership, there was really an expert on the B.S.A., and the authenticity of those voices in the records of Melnichenko, whose names were called Melnichenko himself. I understand that these records may be problematic in court, but there is a witness in Melnichenko who confirms that he not only wrote it down, but he also heard what these people were talking about. Is this testimony not enough to make an accusation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that the materials don't have the data that you call the voices belonging to any of the officials. It says, “probably belong. ” And in order for us to be able to bring criminal responsibility, I've already said that we need not copies of these records, but the originals, as well as the reply of Melnick to the questions that the investigators asked him. Regrettably, he either refused to answer or referred to the fact that he had to reconcile the situation with his mother and wife. By the way, we had an eye rate between them, and Miroslava Gongadze actually corrected Melnick's performances. And so only in the pool of evidence that will be gathered, that is, the completion of these experts, and the receipt of other evidence, will the question of bringing to justice be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u48	The quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u49	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear Alexandre Ivanovich, in 1999-2000, George Gongadze collaborated with the Open Politics Association and then with the Ukrainian People's Party "The Council". We were fighting against Bushmism, and there was a report in the press about the printing of talks during the meetings of the Ukrainian People's Party, the Sobor, where George Gongadze was present, and it was reported to President Kuchma and he was giving a very emotional assessment. For this reason, the party responded, and there were appropriate references to law enforcement. But we don't know why it's ignored by the investigation, why it's not properly explained, or why the prosecution didn't react to President Kuchma. Is this the attitude toward this matter and ignoring the essential details? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. I want to confirm once again that all the materials involved in listening and all the materials that are available, I have audio recordings, they've been tested, they've been tested, they've been conducted, and there's now an expertise that's going to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u51	Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u52	There's no Wolin, Bogychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u53	Your Honor, the Attorney General. Vasil Bogchuk, Ternopil, Socialist Party of Ukraine I, as a participant in the “Ukraine without Cuchma” campaign, as well as thousands of representatives, as all Ukrainians, have already understood, in 2000, who was the contracting party, who was the organizer, and who was the perpetrator of the crime. But it wasn't just the Attorney General's office. Six years of delay, World War II ended in six years, and the Attorney General’s Office was unable to investigate the entire scope of the criminal case. So please tell me, which of the attorney generals should be responsible for delaying the investigation, in a procedural violation of the rules? The fact that the operative materials have disappeared, why have they disappeared? Why were they not removed in time? Who should be responsible for the disappearance of the Ripper? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u54	Understood, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. Well, I want to tell you that in the course of the investigation of this case, the involvement of all seniors in events involving the death of Georgia Gongadze is being tested. With regard to the former attorney - generals who worked for me in this office, I believe that everyone was in charge of the pretrial investigation. And so to ask a question on such a plane that the attorney generals have to be responsible for something, I think it's wrong. Politically, you could call that six years, you know that. From a political point of view, you may be right. But to be held accountable, there must be evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u56	Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Attorney General. Stepan Kurpil, Yulia Block Timoshenko. You said that in order to establish that Melnicka's films really recorded the voices of senior officials at the time of our state, you need to give the originals of the film and the originals of the media on which it was written. Please tell me, if the evidence has disappeared if the people have disappeared, and no one has answered yet, what guarantee that the Attorney General will ensure that the evidence is preserved if it is given to you? Can you guarantee that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. But I can't tell you anything else. How can I guarantee you that if we're given the evidence that we're asking to give to Melnick, it will be ensured that they are preserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u59	School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u60	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Your Honor, the Attorney General, you know, it's really six years. And six years later, we learned that a group of militiamen gathered for unknown reasons and motives, killed Gongadze, arrested them, and confessed. So until now, we don't know, the Attorney General's Office, we don't know the customers, and the motivation for the ignorance is that there is no evidence base on the identity of the votes. There were public confirmations in 2000 that those people who were recorded actually spoke to President Kuchma, they really confirmed in writing, they did it publicly. They have to confirm that in the Attorney General's Office, that they were the ones who were talking. Why can't these shows just involve the textual and the media you have? Why do we still need to look for new reasons to distract the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. I've already answered the same question, you might say, what. Is there something I don't understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u62	Answer me, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u63	I want to tell you that I'm going to do it again in my answer. In order for us to be responsible for the above-plants, we have to have the conclusion of the appropriate expertise. An expert on probability, I can't ask a question or, more faithfully, an investigator, about the responsibility of one person or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u64	Rubber.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u65	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u66	Please. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, yesterday all media outlets reported that during the trial during the interrogation phase of the witnesses, Helen Pritula told the investigation that she had seen when George left her apartment, he was planted, his hands twisted, and he was put in a car. Was this known to the initial investigation? If so, how can you explain such a cynical, in principle, conduct of an investigation into the causes of George’s disappearance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u68	At first, during the pretrial investigation, I interrogated her yesterday, interrogated her, and she gave some of these. I want to say that there were no such claims as they saw in the course of the pretrial investigation. This has already been established by means of investigative operational-search measures and I said that, actually, this has become known as far back as 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u69	You're almost out of time. I just wanted to make one question clear. You're reporting that you finally discovered the circumstances and involvement of specific officials in the violence against Dolodsky in 2006. He was working with Sergey the Chief, and this matter was well - known. Sergey Dolsky, he worked with Sergey Headate at the time, and this was an action against Sergey the Chief, and it was known by the year 2000 or early 2000. Applications were made accordingly. All of this was known, published at the time. Why only six years later, this case is involved in the investigation as a subject, as an object, or whatever. Perhaps it would have been long before the eagles were found there, and who was giving the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I want to say that, yes, there was a statement that a criminal case was committed, but there were no persons installed. It was only after the establishment of the individuals that the case had been brought against the individual concerned and that it had been concluded with a judicial investigation, which had been referred to the court. As for the Pucker, if he is not there, he is singled out in the introduction, a merger in the case of the murder of Gongadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u71	Okay. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the Committee on the Protection of Legal Activities, Stretovic Volodymir Mikolajovic. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I find it difficult to talk about the anniversary of the tragic disappearance of Georgia Gongadze, because George Gongadze was my good friend, I worked with us in the “Go ahead, Ukraine” Block. To this day, I cannot rest from the fact that the Ukrainian state cannot punish those who took their lives as a talented journalist. Questions about the draft decision of the Supreme Council under consideration were followed by the Committee of the Supreme Council on September 13, this year. However, there was no subject to the legislative initiative at this meeting of the committee, so the question was not taken, since this was contrary to the Rules. At the same time, members of the committee exchanged their thoughts and expressed concern that such political hearings would not affect the professional consideration of the case by investigators and judges. For both the investigator and the judge, the facts and circumstances of the case should be specific, not political orientations. No political influence should be allowed on the investigation and on the judges. At present, the criminal case against the perpetrators is being tried in a court of law. Any unwary word can have a negative effect on both the course of the judicial investigation and its results. In this regard, I would like to remind you, fellow Members, of the Constitutional Court’s decision of May 19, 1990, which prohibits national MPs from making demands, proposals, and from interfering in court proceedings at all. With regard to the criminal case concerning the buyers and organizers of a journalist who is singled out and investigated by the Attorney General's Office, once again, by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 April 2000, we are also not in a position to appeal to the prosecutor's office for pretrial investigations in specific criminal matters. So these actions are not legitimate. I am convinced that today’s discussion in this courtroom will not contribute to the objectivity of the investigation. In my opinion, this is another attempt by certain political forces to make dividends on the human mountain. In this regard, we want to call on members of parliament to be tolerant and to avoid sayings that may have a negative impact on the course of the investigation. Each one of us is concerned about that question. For six years, citizens of the country are unable to get an answer but are not punished and, above all, are contracting and organising murders. I urge everyone to act within the framework of the law. We are obliged to exercise parliamentary control within the limits defined by the Constitution by reference to articles 75 and 80 of the Constitution. In fact, there is also a solution. Yet there are a number of questions on which we have not heard all the answers of the Attorney General. Did General Pučak, in charge of the relevant department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, act alone without any subordinates or other dedicated persons who could shed light on the matter? Question two. Who informed the Banger in Israel when the security guard was ready to apprehend him by placing surveillance on him, and he disappeared right under their noses? Question three. Why has not the dust of Georgia Gongadze been passed on to this time? Why has a grieving mother been crying her eyes out for 1,900 days and unable to calm her son’s soul? In this regard, allow me, Madam Miroslav Gongadze, to apologize before you, before Lesei Gongadze, to your children for the inability of the Ukrainian State to carry out the mission that relies on her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u73	Thank you. This is the position of the committee, more loyal to the committee head, we take it into account. We've asked for a discussion, to make a proposal, taking into account the comments made by Vladimir Stretovich, the factions of the faction, please sign up for the performance. One faction at a time. School, please. You will? Or Tomenko? Tomenko, yes. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I'm going to present the position that I think any social and even more parliamentary appeal to such an event is useful and meaningful. I want to remind people in politics that six years ago there was the Attorney-General behind this stand, who said that there was no record of nature, that it was a complete forgery, that there was nothing in this country. And if we, politicians and journalists, were to accept the point of view that nothing should be involved, there would be not many other historical and meaningful events in the last six years. I think we're just destined to remember and influence this event as a social point of view. There wouldn't be a lot of sign things that happened in our history so that politicians would keep quiet about what happened six years ago. What is more, you know, under the Information Act, is the rule of necessity and the possibility of publicizing socially meaningful information, and I am absolutely convinced that those people who did not keep this information quiet acted perfectly, because today the legislation of Ukraine allows in the legal order to prove that if information about State crimes is socially significant, it must be reported and stopped, whether it is State crimes or crimes against people. There is a political component to this matter that I would like to talk about. I'm concerned that, let's say, we don't have law enforcement leaders sitting here in this bed because I thought everyone in this country is worried about this problem because I know a lot of senior officials from the President who said it was a matter of honor to bring this matter to an end. If there is no one responsible in the government bed, perhaps this is not a matter of honor for many. I think it would be useful for us to invite both Leonid Kuchma and Vladimir Litvin here, because they would also benefit from listening to this conversation, and it would not prevent us from understanding what kind of world we are in. There is an international element to this question. You know that neither the Council of Europe nor the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have addressed this issue, they have not forgotten it, and there are appropriate decisions that we should know and which we should implement. When I asked the Attorney General about the decision of PARJE and the decision of the Supreme Council, he did not mention the key ingredient. International expertise is not just a body, an international recording expert -- and this was a key requirement of the European institution -- to conduct an exclusively independent international film analysis. And the 500,000 dollars that were allocated was the understanding of the 2002 Supreme Council that this should be done. And I'm surprised that someone is convincing us today that something in our Attorney General's office or law enforcement can be brought to an end. I'm absolutely convinced that only an international investigation can put the dots above the "and" because then we'll listen to maybe the next, another prosecutor who will say that they found something, and then everything is gone and everything is gone. I understand witnesses who don't want to work with the Attorney General's Office if their valuable testimony or documents go away the same way. I'd like to say that we don't have to forget this, because lately I feel like we're going to have the years that we read about on Melnicken's film soon to become the golden age of Leonid Kuchma. So it's like they didn't kill dozens of people for political reasons, it's like they didn't go up in the asphalt of entrepreneurs, or there was a golden happy age in the Ukrainian state during the period we're talking about today. In principle, it is important to remember this period and to believe that the most resonant crimes will be solved. I'm not talking about the hundreds of crimes that went down in the summer, and they'll never get up from there. So our position, our political power, is very clear and understandable. We must go back to the ruling of PARE, to the previous decisions of the Supreme Council, there must be an international investigation of the matter. I think that without the involvement of the Council of Europe experts, without the patronage of European co-operation on this issue, we will remain at the level of the militias who will be talking in the closed courtroom. Clearly, it is the political order of the highest officials. And until we put a stop to this issue, no European country will respect our state. This is a matter of honor for the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u75	Thank you. [[Applause]] Chush. Selchenko is a socialist faction. Please, Vasil Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Basil Silchenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kiev Tomorrow is six years old from the day that journalist Georgia Gongadze, editor of “Ukrainian Truth” was kidnapped and killed. For six years we have lived in an atmosphere of conscious silence, distortion of the facts of this resonance case, although it has not only become apparent in this time that the original version of the subscribers and perpetrators of the murder of a journalist, posted by Alexander Moroz, is being confirmed. But there is also new undisputed evidence of involvement in the most powerful political affairs of former leaders of Ukraine. Today we cannot talk about the existence of justice in Ukraine for objective reasons. It's clear how God's day, that the closets that carried out the criminal order, are just tiny screws of a terrible state-crime machine. In principle, however, the organizers and subscribers of this crime are not named, nor are criminal cases brought against them. The General Prosecutor’s Office should report on the investigation and the part of the Gongadze case involving the direct customers of the crime. Time and people scored both Kuchmi and Lithuania and Kravchenka. Therefore, the full and objective investigation of the Gongadze case will be the main criteria for assessing the competence and professionalism of representatives of the Ukrainian Femida. Until Gongadze’s case is solved, the purpose of being in the positions of many high - ranking law enforcement officials remains questionable. It is also confusing to see a large number of child cases conducted in parallel with the investigation of the murder of Gongadze Georgia, the stretching and destruction of the investigation materials, such as that of the expert after the death of Witness Goncharov, the translation of the guilt from one agency to another. A clear example of this is the discussion between the IMF and the Attorney General's Office in General Pukac's case. After all, it is not just political lessons that must be learned from the Gongadze case. The open investigation process on the Gongazde case should be a catalyst for reforming the entire Ukrainian law enforcement system. In order for the courts to act as a universal arbitrator rather than a contractor, systematic legislative work is required. It is important to remember that the process in the Gongade case is followed by the whole of Europe, an important indicator of Ukraine's respect for the rule of law and order in the eyes of the EU. The Gongadze case is also subject to control by the PARIS Monitoring Committee. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is not satisfied with the ongoing investigation into the murder of journalist Gongadze and claims this directly. Parrje’s reporter in the Gongadze case repeatedly expressed the view that not everything was done to bring responsibility to those who had previously held high political office. As early as March 2006, the representative of PARJE supported the initiative of SPI leader Alexander Moroz to hold open parliamentary hearings. I find it inconceivable that some politicians, including my colleague Stretovich, from this rostrum today, say that you can't discuss the Gongadze case in Parliament, it's kind of pressure on the court. The pressure on the court and the investigation is what the authorities have illegally created over the last six years, it's the disappearance of witnesses who could spill the case, the light in this case. And an open democratic discussion of the resonance criminal case in Parliament is a normal phenomenon in civilized countries. Consider the investigation of cases in the United States, Romania, South Korea, and other countries around the world. We must not forget that it was from the Gongadze case that democratic transformations began in Ukraine that resulted in the Maydan revolution and the establishment of a new model of government. I believe that I, myself, and all the politicians in the Supreme Council, in the government, in the President's Secretariat -- we are all in our seats because of the democratic changes that have taken place since the death of journalist Gongadze. How can we resolve doubts that power in Ukraine is democratic and respects the rule of law? And it's very simple: to make the process open and legal in the Gongadze case, and the position of power on this issue is not declared, it's real. As long as the Gongadze case remains dark spots, the authorities will not regain the trust of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u77	Thank you. From the communists, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! The problem that we are discussing is masked by the profound negative processes and trends that have affected our society. And the fact that it is a crime to investigate — the murder of Georgia Gongadze, like Alexandrov — must be brought to justice regardless of positions, the President or the perpetrator — must do so. Is it possible, in the current situation, to bring to justice those responsible, contracting and executing? I answer, not today. And six years of investigation have proved that this is not possible. We must now answer the question in Parliament: why this cannot be done in these circumstances. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Gongadze and thousands of others have shown that we have had problems in Ukraine over the years of independence, in fact, as metastases, decomposing our society and destroying our society. What I'm saying is, well, what kind of Ukraine do we have then, I'm talking again with pain if we have the facts today that every year in Ukraine, more than four thousand people are killed on an order, that is, for money?Oh, my God! So the people who pay money are the ones who are on the register, but they're not registered as killers, but they're making a profit out of it. Tens of thousands of people disappear every year, and this is also done on demand. Every year, family members are kidnapped, and it is business that has been created to steal children. This shows the debilitation and immorality of the entire system of power over the years of independence. Over the years of independence, we have Ukraine with the authority of a country that trades arms illegally. And arms trafficking is the deaths of tens of thousands of people. They're laundering money abroad. And the Lazarenko case in the United States is exactly the problem of being arrested for money laundering abroad. Drug trafficking, which has involved tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people. Some have gains, and others, in fact, have dead children. Trafficking in human beings and children, did Ukraine ever get rid of the crime committed at the beginning of our independence when, in the territory of Beaumont and Piedmont of our western areas of democracy, there was an example of the need for doctors to trade children. As Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the resolutions are signed to allow the sale of children. It's also part of the crime we're talking about today. It was Ukraine that went to this crime. We are talking today and about what the world has recognized - power in Ukraine is the most corrupt. And no one's ever washed away from it. And the corruption of power means that the entire verticality of power, by committing crimes, has involved tens of thousands of people in these crimes. These are the mechanisms for intimidation of our people, the mechanisms for involvement in crimes, acts from underage. Is it not a disgrace for us today, for Ukraine, that children, children and children are involved in sexual slavery? Hasn't that become a business for Ukraine too? Isn't that why Gongadze died? And all of this is happening in the eyes of the system of power, which is born and struck today by the fact that the reforms and the formation of the system of power by the ideologists who originally established those reforms were false and wrong. Until we determine the motive for the crime, we will certainly not know what is going on in Ukraine. Is it possible to have a righteous court in the Gongadze case? No, once again, no, because the court of justice in the Gongadze case is the court of the system of power. There can be no other part of the assessment. This is the trial of the reforms we have undertaken in Ukraine because there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine. This is, of course, the judgment of the ideology that has led to enormous property dispersion on the poor, which today, because of feeding the family, is also complicit in crimes, this is also the humanitarian Chernobyl, a new year of independence in Ukraine. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I appeal to you, let us do the Gongadze case, which today should be ours in Ukraine, just as we will consider our most sacred duty not to allow such matters to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u79	A gunner from "Our Ukraine," I take it? Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Chief Sergei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! There are a few points that I wanted to pay attention to during today's discussion. The first is the fact of the discussion. Whatever the case, the constitutional requirement of the rule of law does not allow any involvement of the political authorities in a criminal matter when the trial is under way. According to many European Court of Human Rights rulings, even journalistic publications on a court case are seen as interference in the process. Therefore, unfortunately, it is too late to discuss today, and I do not understand what this could not have been done until the case was still under investigation, investigative bodies, and not court proceedings. Anyway, it's a political debate. Well, maybe someone wants to say or demonstrate that this is a mistrust of a court case, that we don't have an independent court, that we don't have an objective and fair court is another matter. But the former judges who sit here will agree with me that this is not compatible with the rule of law. The other one. It's about the investigation. What Alexander Ivanovich said today is his legacy with him of all the previous general prosecutors and all the investigative teams. So what you've got in your inheritance, and you've been involved in this for months, where your destiny is, but what I'm saying doesn't mean that it's your personal activity. How many prosecutors have stood here? I was personally involved in the case for a short time directly as a representative of the victim Lesi Gongadze, and most of my time I worked in all the temporary parliamentary commissions. I can tell you, I have every reason to say that in six years or 5.5 years of investigation by the Attorney General's Office, the investigation was directed at one thing: how to falsify circumstances and facts so that it would never be possible to investigate the case. And there's more than enough evidence for that. Therefore, 5.5 years of investigation by the Attorney General's Office, the investigation that is ongoing is all six years of torture on virtually one person -- a mother who has not been protected as a person from the Attorney-General's Office, from political bodies, including parliament, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and so on. Hence, to this day, open answers remain: Why not be called to account and investigate the case of those who falsified her investigation? Why is the corpse found in Tarshish deliberately left in temperature conditions so that it can disappear biologically and rot? Why is none of the forensics involved in this? Why are those persons who, contrary to the law, have removed all the bases in the forensics expert Vrotinchev? Why was persecution carried out by a forensic expert who had a purpose that was not granted a foreign passport? Why, why, why? I'm going to put these “why” more than 100 and we put them on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, but there was no cooperation between all the Attorney-Generals, the investigation groups with parliamentary control. And last of all, why did Vladimir Litwin close the parliamentary commission of inquiry so quickly, falsifying the fact of the procedure itself, and leading to the fact that she seemed to have finished her job. And she didn't finish, she didn't answer. We didn't confirm the report. Regarding today’s trial. This is, to put it mildly, a political trial, and simply a human language is a farce. From the very beginning that the court closed this case, I don't understand how we can shut down information from society that the police have the right to track and kill. This is a case, in a closed procedure, this is not a fair trial. And that's why this farce has to stop. The only solution to this situation, if you want to investigate objectively, is that it should be one matter both of the buyers and of the performers, and of all those who have falsified over the course of six years, all of which is pretrial investigation, and is doing so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u81	Thank you, Sergei Petrovich. The word “regions ” comes from Taras Cnervill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u82	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues, we forget that it's not just a matter, not just how we're meant to say, a reason, it's a man's murder. The murder of a man with whom many of us were personally familiar. I also had to be well acquainted with George Gongadze, I won't let myself be called myself, there, friend, perhaps he would have it if he were alive, right to make such definitions, but I won't allow it. And our faction won't allow itself to speculate on any moral claims there, on political statements on this issue, because it only hurts the heart of those people who are particularly painful today: Mother Georgia, his wife, his children, his daughters. So let's just talk about a number of things that carry the most legal form and cause the most serious suspicion. Why wasn't the Kuchma case resolved? Many wonder, many figures and the previous president himself were on the same film as Melnicken on which they did not appear in the best possible light. But then, even then, on this matter, people who were really confused and suspected, if not involved in the murder, lost their jobs in some forgery. Get out of office and head of the BSS, and the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the Attorney General and a number of other persons and they haven't been bleached. Why is it that today, when it seems, another authority has come to claim that it is its moral duty to expose the matter, people who openly falsify the matter and demolish it completely further in office and have no prior charges against them. One point that has already taken place since the presidential elections and which is simply striking in the Gongadze case is the murder of a man who is very seriously connected to the Gongadze case, possibly as an organizer, perhaps as a key witness, is former Interior Minister Yuri Kravchenk. It happened that already after the presidential election many of our colleagues had the opportunity to see Kravchenk, with whom he exchanged a few words, he came up to me, because, on many occasions, I accused him of being involved in the murder of my father, and said, "I will testify in all things, I will testify both in Gongada and in Chernobyl." And we agreed to meet in a week, three days later Kravchenk was gone. Within an hour, a number of people, including those present in this hall throughout the country, claimed to have committed suicide. It's absolutely absurd and incomprehensible even from a medical point of view. Today, everyone is proving that there was no suicide. No one is even trying to figure out why a key witness or organizer has already been destroyed by the new authorities, and why, in the new government, its officials have tried to hide this murder. Perhaps the roots and murders of Gongadze and Kravchenk go to those who have remained in power since 2004. Another moment that I am deeply concerned about legally. Now they're trying to get the whole thing to the Puchachac that's not there, and which is unknown or can be found and done everything they can not find -- that's what we had to figure out by giving people the opportunity to leave Ukraine, then in Israel, knowing their laws to send Ukrainian special forces to the BAF. Everyone knows that under these laws this matter was doomed to failure. And then, in fact, charge a group of people who seem to be just performers. So let me tell you, this is the first stage of Alexander's case. I take it that the people who are being judged today are most likely not to be involved in the murder of George Gongadze, they have personally committed the murders of other people — businessmen for whom they were to be sentenced to life imprisonment. Now they have agreed to bleach the personal image, including the President, and to show that the case is being investigated, to take responsibility for complicity or not preventing murder, a much easier crime. And that's actually what they're doing in the open. The Gongadze case and the Viacheslav Crnovola case are completely united. There all figures coincide from today's late Gocharov, beginning with the absence in Ukraine of Pukač, from which Kravchenk is no longer alive and ending with methods that we, even today, refer to these cases, even to the intimidation of witnesses in matters. And in the case of Chernobyl, those who want much to witness will be intimidated, and those in the case of Georgia Gongadze, even in this room we have heard a statement to Nicholas Melnick that he may, too, be brought to criminal responsibility there for crimes against the State. I'm sorry that the state has set itself, whether it's the prosecutor's office or the law enforcement agencies, the goal is never to investigate the cases of both Chernobyl and the George Gongadze case. That's what's going to happen. I very much hope that the old experts who are actually hiding in these matters will also raise them. I want to remind you that film experts have conducted and the voice ratios have been conducted, and everything can be done to see if they can find reasons not to solve the case and repeat the case of Alexandrov on the totally fabricated false perpetrators of the crime. I hope my conscience is still beating.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given by Piscoon Svetoslav Mikhailovich, Ukrainian national deputy general prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! On July 6, 2002, when I was standing in front of you, I was elected Attorney General of Ukraine. One of the first promises I made and one of the first requirements for me, as the future Attorney General, was the opening of the case of journalist Alexandrov and journalist Gongadze. I want to say that only one case has been solved for the murder of journalist Alexandrov and the responsibility of the buyers, performers and organizers of this murder has been brought to justice, and they've been given the right time. I believe that the investigation of the Gongadze case is not over today and that the investigation of the case is not over. And in court today, there's only the first part of this case that turns out to be simple, even though it wasn't very easy to expose, and the people who were arrested are showing and telling how they committed this crime. But the question remained: Who ordered it and who organized it. This question should be answered not only by law enforcement but by the whole of society. Because this case is a lacuna paper of the efficiency and efficiency of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to bring to the responsibility of the state’s high officials. I want to say that, as Attorney General, I called twice and asked PARE to report on this matter. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in its exclusive form, allowed the Attorney General of Ukraine to report on the state of the Gongadze case on only two occasions. So it's too much to say that Europe is interested in this. Europe is not just interested, it expects us to investigate and bring to justice the responsibility of individuals in this matter. What I'm saying is, it's surprising is that the killers who are on the jury today have been named generals, colonels, twice have received Mr. Puchnik. Who prepared these submissions? For which they were given a title, not deserved, I consider it to be today. These answers should also provide an answer to this question. I want to say that the hiding of Georgia Gongadze was also a step that I think was disrupting the political situation in the country and that the hiding was also deliberately done by someone to destroy the traces of crime. And that should be answered by the investigation today. As to what was happening in the Supreme Council and in the prosecution's office during the years of the investigation, it seemed to me that the commission of inquiry, which was created, had failed and the prosecutor's office might not have been able to find a common language in a consistent investigation of the case. So I think, for example, that if the deputies had created a new commission of inquiry on this case with a new head, for example, or in a new warehouse, maybe it would have helped the prosecutor's office to investigate this criminal case and would have informed the community of the extent to which it was possible to inform society, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court. The second thing I think I have to do is finish the expertise, all the expertise on this case. And I didn't mind conducting an international film analysis by Major Melnick. That's what I reported to Parliament and talked about. That international expertise is a lacquer piece of paper. Which shows the reality of this film. It's just, well, I think the last thing that Puchnik was arrested at Kuchma's place at the time and the Attorney General's release might have made sense at the time. Today, I feel that there are good reasons to be active in the matter. Because there is political will and this political will of the government is. There are professionals and professionals at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u85	Thank you. The speech is given to the lawyer invited by Fedur Andrija Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! I believe that there is good reason to say that an effective investigation into the murder of Gongadze in Ukraine has not been carried out. This is my personal conviction. Deputies! I've just heard the information from Attorney General Medvedzick in the guest room and I'm sick of what he's told me. When he spoke for almost 20 minutes, he spoke of something, and he had a fine craft, a great talent, not to say anything in essence. But he managed to tell a lie, a fundamental lie several times. I'll try to show you some of this. For example, regarding Melnick’s position in this matter, he refused to give a witness and so forth. I know Melnichenko gave a witness in this case. Moreover, I know that Melnichenko was ready to take part in an investigative experiment, during which he was willing to demonstrate how he made the recordings. This was not done, although my personal concerns with the prosecutor’s office were appropriate in writing. The D.A. refused to do so. They don't talk about it. So you don't have to throw at the mill girl in this part. What was suggested? Because Melnichenko calls the names of the individuals he wrote down. So, after questioning Melnichenko, why don't we do an investigative experiment and question them? Having done so, will you assign appropriate expertise? And you and I would have had the answer to questions about the murder of Gongadze with regard to the records. I'm talking about records. It's George Gongadze's murder that concerns this particular episode. It's an elemental thing! You don't have to be a great lawyer to understand that. You know, I've tried again to get out of this situation. I was given the consent of Nicholas Melnick to give a witness in court, a name. More than that. He used to call me a few names. And I'll tell you so frankly that I'm, in principle, taking a risk, but at the appropriate stage of the trial, at the stage of the declaration of concern in the process that I am currently in the Court of Appeal of Kiev, I have declared concern for the interrogation of Melnicken, the interrogation of those persons accordingly, and several of them I have named, including the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yashchenka. It was very important for me to be questioned by Yushchenko because he could either refute or confirm Melnick's shows about a single recording where there was talk about Gongadze and then he talks to me like Melnichenko Yushchenko told me. This could have been checked, checked in accordance with the law, and then carried out an expert study. We'd have a clear answer. Do you know what happened in this trial? In this trial, it was the prosecutor’s office who shouted, Mr. Medvedzka’s subordinates shouting: “Don’t let God question these people, don’t let God question Melnick! And it wasn't done. So here's the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk about what was there, well, the prosecutor, telling us how much expertise had been carried out and so forth. It's about expertise. To avoid divulging the mystery of an investigation or a state secret, I will give just one example. Lesia Gongadze's mother asked the prosecutor's office one thing: compare two samples, two biological samples, and give an answer, do they belong to the same person? This was not done until then. By the way, last year, a decision was made, even an appropriate decision was made by the prosecutor's office that they would do it and did not do it, which is a very basic thing. The trouble is not what we're saying, the trouble is, in my opinion, the Attorney General's office is never going to investigate this case. As national deputies, you are responsible for the Attorney General. I think you need to figure this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u87	Thank you. The main expert of Bektek Tek is Douglas Lesi. Please. Have you taken care of the translation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u88	[[== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man]] Good morning! My name is Douglas Lacey, and it is an honor to address you. I'm working with a company called Back Folders LC, and we specialize in a judicial objective analysis of audio and video. A number of very significant cases for which we analyzed include an analysis of the aircraft’s flight record, which crashed in Pennsylvania on 9/11. We also analyzed the records. Monique Levinsky was involved in the investigation of President Bill Clinton. We also analyzed records that are also related to the criminal tribunal, cases involving the former Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations. We also analyzed the records related to the murder of President John Kennedy, also the assassination of President Ronald Reagan. We also analyzed the footage of sniper attacks on Washington, D.C., in 2002-2003. We also analyzed the records of Henry’s independent investigation. Who was former minister of virtually urban development. We also analyzed videos and audio recordings related to the incident and. Once again, I'm Douglas Lassie and I'm one of the leading experts in Bek Tek and speaking of my education, all of our experts, they're engineers, they have diplomas from engineers, physicists, electricians. We have a master's degree in the court case as well. We were also specially trained, and we also passed special examinations, and we were accepted, and such special examinations were passed. We were also taught a special analysis of such records. We all have 70 years of experience in the analysis of such records. We've studied over 25,000 of these records in over 10,000 cases. And we've also come to expert conclusions in over 360 cases. And when we were busy studying these records that were handed over to us by Major Melnichenko, it was a very difficult task for us, even for our company. We've learned a few passages from these questions, but today we're only going to lose one piece of the record for you today. [[Displaying recording on film]] Our main task in this analysis was to answer the following questions: whether the records that were transmitted to us in 2001 by Mr. Melnichenko, whether they were made on "Toshiba" – a special digital audio recorder, whether they were authentic, whether there were any signs that they were deformed, or somehow they were edited, and it took a lot of time and a lot of effort to test these records, and these were unique auto-authentic records. In order to understand that, in fact, we've finished this work and we've solved all the technical questions and we've determined that the records are authentic, that these records are consistent because they were recorded on Toshiba and that this information that was written was not edited and it was not reformed in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u89	Thank you. My word is Mikola Melnichenko. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u90	Honorable chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected TV setters, radio listeners. I am grateful, first of all, to the Lord God, then to the new Ukrainian authorities for having the opportunity to stand still in this rostrum. And I want to stress that I'm not a politician, I'm not a politician, I'm not a politician. I carried out my public duty and documented the crimes committed in Ukraine’s highest office. Unfortunately, it is. I don't want that to happen, but it does. The evidence was there. I am only a witness in the Gongadze case. But as an officer, once again, I have served as an officer, and I have fulfilled my oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine. It's the people of Ukraine. No one is allowed to rob or kill his people, his subjects. I don't want to go into demagogies, but what I'm saying is, you're being tricked from this rostrum, including you, rudely, cynically. He's also deceiving the Attorney-General, knowingly or unconsciously, that's already a question to him, please. I gave the necessary witness. Next, the Attorney General also spoke of the fact that Miroslava Gongadze had refuted my claims. I'm saying it's a lie. If, Sergey Andryovich, we could read out the official position of Miroslav. Ready or not? Now. Yeah? All right. The official position of Miroslava, and it's written, and it is, its signature is officially certified is that it doesn't trust this Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. She's opposed to me giving further testimony to this Attorney General's Office until they're executed. until the records are declared authentic. The expertise of these records needs to be done under international guise. The resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe should simply be thrown out, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is ready to do so. The Attorney General also said that if we establish the authenticity of these records, the criminal case against Melnick would be prosecuted for public disclosure. I'm addressing the Attorney General. I say that I am willing to go to prison for divulging the public secret because then Kuchma will sit in prison. I'm willing to make him a company in this case. Please don't scare me with this. I'm saying one thing about the case. I am willing to give all the full witness in the court hearing when my records are recognized as material evidence. I will answer all the questions I will be asked. I have nothing to hide, my conscience is clear. And then I want to give you an example. As Mr. Tomenko said, I am able to disclose some of the materials of the investigation, although this will allow the prosecution to bring a criminal case against me today. So I want to show you how this tracking group fakes the shows I gave. Yes, please, if I may have the Rules for at least one more minute. Yes, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine since 06.09. 02 states that according to the records in the book of work accounting and other measures carried out in the office of the President of Ukraine in 2000, you have always spent time in the office, and sometimes from about seven to eight o'clock in the morning. After giving the records to the U.S. Attorney General's Office, I also testified that I was actually there. And I actually said that I gave Kuchma an order from Kravchenk on 03.07.2000 to prevent illegal methods from goingngadze, and I gave this witness. As I came, as I set up the recorder, what I did, as I turned it on. I've got Roman Shubin sitting here, who's already told the witnesses about President Yushchenko that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u91	Well, 15 seconds to complete your thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u92	It was stated that, with President Yushchenko at the time that Yushchenko said it was a matter of his honour, Mr. Roman Shubin claimed to be witnesses, including, and, here was, John Bokom, that Melnichenko was a criminal and we were anyway, he would still be in prison under any authority. That's his position. Next. Then, when I gave a witness, Mr. Roman Shubin reads it from the interrogation protocol. His question, once again, would allow him to bring a criminal case against me. Well, please know how the falsification of this case is going. Shubin’s question: “You have been told that you have been given a CD with a copy of the audio conversation in Kuchma’s office since 03. 07.2000. You said you made this audio recording in your office by setting up 3.07. In 2000 in Kuchma’s office, you were not in office 201, 3.07 in office, but according to Book No.56, you did not open it and thus your testimony about the fact that you were 3.07. recorded, not true. People are good, so when did the Attorney General lie? When I was saying that I was always there according to the book of accounting, or when I gave the show, I wasn't there?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u95	Have a seat, please. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time for us to sum this up, and I would like to answer immediately the question that Sergey the Head of State has asked. Could it not have been done before the trial began? I mean, you couldn't, because for almost three years, even the report of the commission headed by Gregory Omelchenko could not be included in the order of the day to listen to what they had come to, which was the conclusion of the deputies who worked on the committee. Therefore, the aim of this consideration is to draw the public's attention to investigating the most resonant crime in the history of an independent Ukraine. Without the influence of public opinion, the Gongadze case will never be fully investigated. And you all know that, too. I believe that Ukrainian journalists will contribute to an objective and reliable explanation of the progress and results of today’s consideration of the issue. Journalist protests against Georgia Gongadze began at a time when Ukrainian freedom of speech and the rapid development of the media began. The investigation of this crime has been prolonged and has taken place beyond doubt in the execution of some of the authorities. It's been known for a long time what's going on under direct political orders. And that's because the whole country knows the names of those involved in the killing of high-ranking journalists. Moreover, the entire chain of law enforcement officials is recorded in audio recordings that have long been available for law enforcement study. Unfortunately, the prosecutor's office has allowed the criminal case to be dismembered, and the court is now determined on the level of responsibility of only parts of the perpetrators of the crime, former police officers. And our consideration, you've noticed, has no effect on this trial, we're not interfering. But directly the rulers of these criminals either went out of their lives or disappeared. However, audio recordings and testimonies in the case do exist, especially the credibility of their discussions in the Presidential Office, confirmed by a number of Supreme Council deputies. The credibility of the records was confirmed by the leading independent international experts. Official law enforcement experts from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation acknowledged that. The recording of the conversations and their contents that expose the clients and organizers of the journalist’s murder are sound reasons to use as evidence in court and that is what the MPs have talked about today. Experts, by the way, lawyers. Now many politicians are asking me a question, and why bother the people in general with the Gongadze case. Everything has long been forgotten, and in subsequent elections, it is said that no one will mention the matter, saying nothing to waste time on an empty matter. I could refer to the Paris requirement and thus limit myself, but I am convinced that the Gongadze case has nothing to do with the internal political struggle, especially now. The Ukrainian society refused to trust and removed the power of those politicians who were involved in the murder. Obviously, people know better than investigation, what is the point. The Gongadze case needs to be judged because this is the most effective test of Ukrainian authority on the availability of legality and democracy. If such a resonant case with such strong evidence is not brought to justice, would there be hope for an average citizen for honest justice regarding it? Moreover, it is George Gongadze's case that is an important indicator of the level of democracy in Ukraine for abroad and, above all, for Europe. This case is under special control of the PARE Monitoring Committee. As early as March 2005, during our visit to Ukraine, we discussed the need for special parliamentary hearings. Unfortunately, only now does the political situation allow us to return to the matter. Ukraine’s preference for European ideals needs to be demonstrated by not loud slogans, concrete examples of orderly work and the rule of law. Resonant criminal cases must be resolved in court. As long as the difference between recent justice and today’s results are not visible, it is simply not there. The law enforcement authorities have brought to justice only one part of the criminal case concerning the liability of the perpetrators of the crime, and the buyers case has not yet been brought before the court, and in fact the investigation does not proceed as we have heard from the information. Also, law enforcement authorities have not so far brought to bear the responsibility of those officials who were responsible for stopping and deliberately pointing to the deaf point of investigation, for declaring false and provocative versions of the murder. None of the law enforcement officers took responsibility for the murder in the investigative isolation of the witness Goncharov, for the pressure of medical expert Vorotinchev, for the disappearance of the most important witness of General Pukac, who was accidentally released from custody, for his strange expert assessments of the causes of the death of former minister Yuri Kravchenk. Apparently, some high - ranking criminals believe that removing witnesses, falsifying official documentation, ignoring evidence will close the case to find the shooters responsible for everything. In the case of Georgia Gongadze, an accurate legal assessment should be given of the actions or omissions of all officials responsible for the death and disappearance of witnesses in the case. I don't think if we don't say it from the rostrum of Parliament, no movement in the Gongadze case will take place and the investigation will be put on hold again. The former Henprocuror Piscoon was released with the phrase “for delay in the investigation of the resonance cases” and among them was called the Gongadze case. But he spoke up and said that it was with him that she was moving forward. 11 months later, no significant progress was made in this matter. Apparently, the Supreme Council’s Preparatory Committee, Vladimir Mikolayovich, needs to consider the level of competence of some law enforcement officials in the control. I am ashamed to hold a meeting today, to listen to the information of the Attorney General, knowing that people are also ashamed of it, and they ask us the question: What is the influence of the Supreme Council, the parliament under which the relevant services are controlled? Alexander Ivanovich, with all due respect to you, I want to say: either you're investigating it, you're providing it, or you're assigning it to someone else, otherwise the Supreme Council will assign someone else to do it. That's not the way to do it. Listen, how much can you pull in this case?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] This does not add authority to both the prosecution and other authorities. We hear here, in one of the speeches there's been, there's an argument between the heads of the Ministry and the prosecutor's office about who's more guilty and so on? People don't need to know. Find out among yourselves, but first focus on a case that we see is not working out. Only the authority and influence of Parliament, along with the efforts of journalists, will allow society to gain the power of honest and transparent work on the Gongadze case. I say so because President Yushchenko defined his political and moral attitude towards the judges in the case – George Gongadze now the Hero of Ukraine. It's a confession, a confession by the head of state. But pressure on the prosecutor’s office, in a good sense of pressure, has a people whose voice is Parliament, with control functions and obligation to do so. The Supreme Council should make an effort to improve Ukrainian legislation by example, including other resonant crimes. In particular, the Law on Commissions of Inquiry of the Supreme Council must be put into effect. I am convinced that the President will exercise the right of signature of this law and will correct the Colosseum when the President's veto under this law is overtaken and the law is not signed. I had a conversation with Viktor Andriyovich about this, and I think it will come to light in the near future. The Gongadze case has shown that it is necessary to step up witness protection, to prevent any form of pressure on them. The Gongadze case should be a lesson not only for politicians, but also for all civil servants, for law enforcement officials. From the rostrum of Parliament on November 28, 2000, I knew that there was no way back. Then I could never think that six years later, again in that state of affairs. It's almost the same state. It has either to conquer the law, or there is no lawlessness, and there is no way out. It is I who address those who are concerned about this issue today. I have no doubt today that people whose involvement in crime, as I said then, should be brought to justice. In what quality is the case of the court. We don't bill, but a legal evaluation should be given to everyone. Nothing, no compromise can justify the sacrifice of the human right to life, secretly and illegally amnesty the guilty. We can't let the tragedy of Georgia Gongadze ever happen in our country. The court must evaluate those terrible times when people could be mutilated, kidnapped, killed by the authorities. If the Ukrainian authorities, if all of us want to commit slavery, the Laity, the Georgia Gongadze case must be exposed. It's a decision. You have a draft decree and the Rules, and I referred to it, and it allows you to make a ruling on that. I'd like to take it as a base, and then I'd like to make some adjustments that the MPs here have said. You have this project on your hands. I'm reading it again. Listen. Registration Branch 2128. The 12th number of projects submitted. Find it in your papers. That's what happened. Having heard the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzka, on the progress of the criminal investigation of the murder of journalist George Gongadze, the Supreme Council, decides: the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine is to be taken to the attention; the second is to invite the Attorney General to complete the investigation of cases in full respect of full compliance with procedural standards and to refer the case to the criminal organizers.” This is suggested as a basis, it's not an influence, it's not a pressure. So I'm asking for a basis to vote, and then let's take a look at this point. Please. [[12:07:42]] To - 368. There were suggestions from the speakers: Do not write there as if it were pressure, for this will be written: finish the investigation. Let us write in the second paragraph: “Prosecute the Attorney General to ensure that the case is fully investigated and referred to the court”, as the text provides. Can I write that down? You can't. Sergey Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u96	Aleksandre Alexandrovich, because there is one part of the case before the court. We propose to the Attorney General which part of our trial? That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u97	No, it says, "in full volume."
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u98	But I understand, then we need to close the investigation, bring the case back to the prosecutor's office, and keep it new in its entirety, what we've been saying: about customers, organizers, contractors and forgers. And to run it in a way that's not in accordance with procedural norms -- they did it, they did it, they did it according to procedural norms, and they divided it. It needs to be in line with, of course, national legislation, European standards and the Paris documents, where it requires these very things to be complex: both with regard to customers, and with regard to contractors, and with regard to counterfeiters of six-year-olds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u99	I think we can have an endless legal dispute right now. Then I propose: Let us take the second item off at all, so that there is no doubt, but let us write down the proposal that we make: “Create and restore the work of the Special Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council regarding the monitoring of the Gongadze case. Well, then create a special commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council regarding or the continuation of control over the Gongadze case. That's what the MPs used to say. Can I vote on this? Let's vote on this item in the paper that I proposed to support the proposal of deputies. Please, there's a vote. [[12:10:06]] For - 240. Decision taken. Is there any more? Can we vote in general? If you have any comments, please express them. Sign up, three minutes. Now, three minutes. Companion. There is no Ivan Vasilovich. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u100	Please give me the word Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u101	St. St. John's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u102	Volodymyr Stretovic. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, I did not in vain point out the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Because the decision of 14 May 2001 on the unconstitutionality of decisions by the Supreme Council on the decision of the interim commission states that it is unconstitutional to ask the Attorney General to verify the legality and so forth. We can't do that because of the distribution of power. So your proposal to create a commission is only the only way out of this situation as a result of a two-hour discussion. We have no commission, we have no right to do this, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u103	We've already taken this off, we've got it. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u104	Thank you. I think that in a situation like this, when we just heard all the information and the depth of the lack of information, there were enough serious comments from this rostrum, and the parliamentary rostrums were made with observations and just accusations by Mikola Melnick about the Attorney General's Office. In any case, we need to make an extended meeting of the Committee on Legislative Security and Corruption in this regulation, an extended committee meeting. So that this extended committee meeting will give us the answer. I don't think we need parliamentary hearings, but this has to be made into a draft decision, so that we can finally control not only the special investigation committees, but also by using the serious mechanism that the Supreme Council gives us, that is, the Supreme Council Committee. I'd like to make a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u105	You probably know that Vladimir Strtovich is here during the consideration of the matter. He understands the essence of the matter very well, which means that he is aware of the need for increased control on the part of the committee. It's a specific committee, he's got to control all this. So there is no need to accept it and determine it. I offer again, Sadowy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u106	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u107	Bogchuk, please. I see Vasil Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Ukrainian Socialist Party, Ternopil. I listened carefully to the information provided by the Attorney General and to the discussion that took place, and I consider it appropriate to make such a provision in the Supreme Council’s ruling. Second, to remind the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedek Alexandre Ivanovich, of the lack of attention regarding the complete objective and transparent completion of the criminal investigation into the murder of journalist Georgi Gongadze. And secondly, or thirdly, since the case is divided into two parts, I think to leave the question, to invite the Attorney General's Office to complete the investigation of the criminal case in full scope, but here to complement with the organizers and prosecutors of the crime to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u109	Since your proposals bear serious legal burden, and it needs to be analysed by experts, I simply have no right to put it to the vote. I propose to everyone with this proposal: we leave the first paragraph, we take the information from the prosecution, and the second paragraph we write, we consider it necessary to create a Special Investigation Commission on the control of the Gongadze case. And the next Tuesday, at the suggestion of MP factions, create such a commission. Is there no objection? On this proposal, according to proportions: five men give a Party of Regions, BUT three, “Our Ukraine” – two, SPU – one and communist – one. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. In general, it's for a decree. [[12:15:03]] For – 405 Decision taken. Thank you to all the participants invited for, I would say yes, a proper consideration of this issue. A break of 30 minutes is announced. At 12:45 a.m., the next meeting will take place, the continuation of the morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u110	Please invite the deputies to the hall. The morning session continues. It is announced for the consideration of the Draft Regulation on the Costs of Expenses for the Implementation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2006. Reported the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, Head of the Committee on Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u111	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! According to article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the Supreme Council’s funding for the activities of the higher legislative body of the State. As you know, Ukraine's State Budget 2006 approved expenditures for the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 2006 powers. At a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 13, this year, a draft of the Fundis submitted by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, it was decided to support the project, taking into account the comments made by the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, and to submit a report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Clearly, the cost cannot solve all problems. It mentions the minimum amount needed to ensure the normal functioning of the legislative body, which is approved by the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. You've been given a draft order at number 2169. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to ask questions? Yes. Hennady Josephovich has a question. Please give him your word. Do you have one? Please. Then write down for three minutes. Please, Corge. Give Yavrovsky a word, he asks. I see, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Mr. Head, well, the chatter around our treasure has been going on for a long time, and it's likely to be even more intense. What do you think is the head of this profiling committee? For example, let’s not let the big money go so that we can give the MPs a free trip to rest. At such a salary, can't you take them off at all, say, and pay for it all? What do you think? The same number of cars, perhaps in fact, is too large, which is mostly driven by officials rather than by national deputies. Perhaps we really need to walk through these things and clean them up. Let's say you pay for parking a car that the MP doesn't pay for. Well, that's funny, can't we just pay these five bucks? How do you look at the calmness of walking around and cleaning up these feudal benefits that, unlike chats, actually give nothing else?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u114	Thank you for your attention and for your questions. You know, we've been looking at this thing for three months. The problem is that it has yet to be approved was the previous convening of the Supreme Council, and we are the only ones to consider. And we had to match the costs that were then and the costs that are now. But in considering this item, our members in the Committee have raised all the issues you have been talking about. And why were they looking at it for three months? Because each article has been dealt with in the most detail, they have tried to do so. For example, cars. To date, the secretariat has written us a letter inviting us to consider using the 72 names of the vehicle that are available. What about the carotid itself? So it was initially unbalanced, and a proposal was made by Minfin to request additional funds. As a result of the work you're saying, we've done, we've got the cost in balance and the additional funds we're not asking for right now, we've just moved from one place to another. As far as the relevant pills are concerned. We asked ourselves that question, too. And today we are working on a committee and, perhaps, in the adoption of the 2007 cost statement, some issues will be taken into account in this, but my view is that this should be a serious discussion and it is desirable to take into account the views expressed by as many deputies as possible. For example, such a question. Today we pay for the hotel, we pay dearly. The living conditions in this hotel in a one-bedroom room, you know, I don't have to tell you. If this money is given into the hands of deputies today, it may even be cheaper in the city of Kiev to live in two rooms and normally. I think the question is clear. But when you ask some MPs, they support them, and other MPs don't support them. Therefore, it is necessary to accumulate as much perspective as possible and to make reasonable, right and unmistakable decisions. This is what the Committee is working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. He rightly asks the question of Vladimir Yavorowski, but let us change the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Prepare proposals, I think they'll be supported, but that's already registered draft legislation on this subject. I think you've received the most important information. We're not asking for any extra funding. What was offered at the beginning of the year is no longer a penny. Please, I'm betting on this project. Please. [[12:52:48]] For – 266 Decision taken. We have a list of issues for consideration of the reduced procedure. With regard to some of these issues, we identified ourselves yesterday because we simply did not have time to consider them. And we're not going to be able to look at it anymore. That is why I propose a short-term bill amending the National Bank of Ukraine Act. [[on members of the Council and the Government of the National Bank]] The report on this issue is made by Shapovalov Anatoly Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the National Bank Authority. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u117	Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u118	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the National Bank of Ukraine Act. The bill is prepared to take account of the application of the current Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, the amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine and the introduction of the role and place of the Central Bank, the legal principles of its activities in accordance with the principles implemented in the European Union. The drafting of this bill is foreseen by the steps taken to implement the plan of action of Ukraine-EU approved by Cabinet of Ministers No. 117-R. The main purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the governing bodies of the National Bank to ensure that it adopts decisions on monetary policy, free of political, personal and individual influence and subordinated only to the interests of the stability of the national monetary unit and the interests of the Ukrainian society as a whole. Taking into account the need to increase the level of professionalism and impartiality in the formulation of monetary policy, it is envisaged to specify the requirements for members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is its governing body and is responsible for the development of basic principles of monetary policy. The bill includes provisions on the inability to reconcile a member of the Board of the National Bank with political party membership and presence in a representative mandate, since articles 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine refer to officials as members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. The activity of a member of the Council should be assessed by the authorities whose decision it is to be appointed. The inadequacy of a member of the National Bank Board’s activities to the requirements of the Law, as well as the loss of an irreprehensible business reputation or the systematic avoidance of participation in meetings of the Board of the National Bank, should be a reason for its termination. The bill also envisions a change in the term for which the head of the National Bank is appointed from 5 to 7. This is consistent with the term of the authorized members of the National Bank of Ukraine, which includes the head of the National Bank. This will enable Nazbank's head to exercise his authority, irrespective of the change in the political situation in the state and, in particular, the election of the new President of Ukraine and the new composition of the Supreme Council. This standard takes into account the experience of other countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, France, the United States, and others, where the term of office of the Central Bank exceeds five years. For the same purpose, the head of the National Bank is also prohibited from belonging to any political party. To ensure the effectiveness of the National Bank’s headship, a complete list of reasons for its dismissal is aimed at ensuring that it is not able to carry out its health mandate. In addition, with a view to improving the quality of the administration’s specialization in the direction of the National Bank’s deputy heads, the bill foresees an increase in the number of deputy heads of the National Bank to 4 persons. The bill also amends article 65 of the law to avoid conflicts of interest and to create conditions for the proper performance of service duties by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, its deputies, members of the government, and other officials of the National Bank on the basis of a list of positions defined by the legal act of the National Bank. Those who hold positions under this list will not have the right to receive loans and loans from banks. We believe that the adoption of the bill will help resolve the problems of the functioning of the governing bodies of the National Bank, which have become evident in the practical application of the National Bank Act and in the light of the changes made to the Constitution. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u119	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. I'm sorry, this is a reduced procedure. We did yesterday. We're looking at a reduced procedure, no questions asked. Have a seat, please. Are they desirable? I say, yesterday we voted, the Supreme Council has decided, more than 300 votes, that the issue is being considered and others are being shortened. Please, now, Petr Alekseiovich from the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u120	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor! I think that the report of the first deputy head of the National Bank has quite thoroughly explained the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. This document is a significant contribution to improving the efficiency of the National Bank and reducing the level of political risk in terms of ensuring the uninterrupted and principled policy pursued by the institution. At its meeting, however, consideration of the matter took place in sufficient long and controversial form. I can tell you that the committee has returned twice to the consideration of this bill, and on both occasions it has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill in the first reading. But in its first decision, the committee suggested removing the fourth, then the first point. Only by carefully studying the Rules and the Committees Act have we come to the conclusion that it is for the Committee to act and propose to the Supreme Council a decision that either recommends the adoption of this law in the first reading and at the second reading stage to remove those points of discussion which are certainly contained in this bill, but not to delay with the resolution of this issue, to take it to work, and, taking into account the professional level of members of the committee and the representation of all without excluding the political factions of the Supreme Council, to find a compromise that will allow this unconditionally relevant problem to be resolved or rejected. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, yesterday you emphasized that it was easier for the session hall to make decisions about the direction for further development. I would very much like to see us abandon this practice now, not hinder, not delay the artificially legislative regulation of the National Bank, especially since we have several draft Supreme Council rulings on the election of members of the National Bank Board. Of course, I would like the procedure for electing members for this very important institution to be followed by a clear procedure that we will be able to discuss, work with you, in furthering the second reading. So I would like to adopt this bill in the first reading as a basis. I promise that as part of the committee's working group, we will work closely on it and remove all the discussion points that were found in the committee's discussion. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u121	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Who will support Project Two, representatives of two factions. Please sign up. Who's "for"? It's a recording. Miroshnichenko and Korz want to speak for, say, they do. Now anyone who is “against” please say two. Lukianczuk and Kaetnik, please, also from various political factions. That's why we've got the first Miroshnichenko out there. Miroshenko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. In my presentation, I would like to support the report by Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, which he has just done and to stress that today we face a very serious issue of forming a supervisory board of the National Bank of Ukraine. Appropriately, we now need to define the rules with which this body will be formed. And accordingly, we're already going to do the selection procedure, the selection of this body. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the different approaches to making this decision. The point is that the solution, on the one hand, is to increase the term that. would be composed of representatives, and on the other hand would be deprived of the right of national deputies to be members of the Supervisory Board. I would like to say that, indeed, today we should adopt this law in the first reading, but I must stress that we must take into account the committee's second reading proposals, because, to my conviction, we cannot deprive the deputies of their right to be members of the Supervisory Board, since the Supervisory Board exercises the authority to control the National Bank's rule, just as the Supreme Council exercises the authority to control the Cabinet of Ministers. And according to that approach, we are simply obliged to exercise not only professional control by banking professionals but also political control over this. for the operation of this institution. So once again I urge you to support in the first reading with.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u123	Thank you. Corge, please. Yavorowski? Please, Yavorowski. Let's get out of here. Turn the maple on. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the bill must be sent to the second reading. And I'm convinced that maybe one of the most controversial questions that the previous speaker has touched is the supervisory board at the bank and the political party. Indeed, we now have control functions, including, and over such a completely autonomous institution as the National Bank of Ukraine, which is actually independent of government. As a result, I am convinced that such a restriction is very unfair, and it must be removed from this text in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u125	Instead of Lukyanchuk, Sivulian is speaking. Please. Against the adoption of such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u126	Dear Head, dear colleagues. I want to point out that there are definitely positive points in this bill that colleagues have already talked about. This is especially true of article 65, which provides for prohibited activity, and it is right to extend and clearly define the relevant provisions. But. I'd like to point out that there are standards here that I don't think we can agree with. What are we talking about? Council members, and we remember that one third of the Board members are appointed by the Supreme Council, cannot be members of political parties. As it is, the Supreme Council is exclusively shaped by a political principle now. Hence, it follows that national deputies cannot be members of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. We're losing one of the control functions that is enshrined in the Constitution. I feel that this standard must be rejected. Well, the next point is "d" and "d". Please tell me, what is the “systematic avoidance of a member of the Board of the National Bank from participating in meetings of the Board of Banks”? Who will determine that? What criterion? It's not there. This is a completely subjective factor in which any member of the council can be released tomorrow, even by the Supreme Council. So the faction position is that the law is absolutely necessary. It should be accepted, too. But it requires substantial adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u127	Thank you. And Kaletnik, the national deputy is speaking. Also against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u128	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished TV audiences. I would like to point out that in this bill, unfortunately, the main issues are to resolve certain preferences for officials. Nazbank’s head wants to work more calmly for two years; he wants to get rid of the independent members of the Supervisory Board, which are the people’s deputies. And so I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill needs to be supplemented by articles that would actually reinforce the core function of the National Bank, it's controlling commercial banks. You see how much trouble we've had over the past few years with the deception of our fellow citizens, the Bank of Ukraine, then a number of other commercial banks that have led to the National Bank to the mass of our people with complaints that have been deceived into hundreds of millions of dollars, so hard to earn by these people. So I think that the bank is a national bank so far does not perform its core control functions, and this is where it needs to be put into this bill. So I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading and to supplement it with articles that will motivate the National Bank to respond and answer to the people for all the commercial banks that it gives birth to, by which it licenses and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u129	Thank you. I'm going to put a question to the vote right now. Wait. Based on the fact that there are two positions. In fact, they all express the need to adopt the law, since there are important things to consider. And I understand the President's introduction of this project, and it's as urgent as an emergency, because it's the same as the Supreme Council's concern that this central structure in the financial system, the system of Ukraine, works in a stable, reliable way, does not depend on the political situation and so on. Such sentiments should be treated with respect, no doubt of the need. However, there are two projects, two proposals. The committee proposes that the results of the consideration of this project be accepted as a basis and then sent to the second reading for preparation, which will take into account all the suggestions that the MPs have been talking about. And the second project is to send him to work immediately. I'm voting on the committee's first proposal to accept it in the first reading and to work on this project. [[13:10:51]] For – 307. Decision taken. I would ask the committee to work on this, look closely at the conformity of the law with the requirements of the Constitution. Even that. There's a reason for the release of the head of government, and there's no reason for what's written directly in the Constitution, a mistrust of expression, because it's a position that's appointed by Parliament, well, and so on. I mean, do some more work on this document. There is a recording of the performances in the “Various” please. Make the list public. The first is Matthew, followed by the Platonics. Valentin Grigorovich. Cibenko's acting in his place.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u130	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko As a member of parliament, I thought you would never surprise me again. But on my recent visit to the famous city of Odessa and to participate in a unique court session, I was convinced that I was wrong. And here's the thing. Ukrainian citizens are no doubt aware that on the night of August 1 through 2 in Odessa, a cultural monument under the protection of the law, the monument of Volodymyr Lenin, was dismantled for the initiatives of local authorities. Why did this happen at night, as some law enforcement officers did? And they were worse off than the SS. This will be considered separately. The result of this barbarism was not only the demolition of the monument to Vladimir Ilchi Lenin but also the broken heads and broken hands of the Odessa citizens who tried to stop this medieval Sabbath with political witches. But now I'm talking about something else. As law - abiding citizens of Ukraine, my friends from the Odessa District Committee of the Company of Ukraine filed a lawsuit with the Primorsky District Court of Odessa, accusing the misconduct of the Odessa City Council, which initiated this barbarism. Frankly, knowing the manners of our judicial system, we were ready for any decision, but the verdict of Judge Gardener dictated to him by this sort of mesquiconian boy lawyer surprised us even. Probably no lawyer, no lawyer, not even three, and out of ten attempts, no guess what decision was made. Solomon’s decision was indeed made. The judge decided to refer the case to the farm court. The man saw in these acts some kind of disturbance in economic legislation, perhaps they were present there, for a monument was being built for the money of the people. But we have to understand that for such judges, under such a judicial system, if we say this, we can't even get protection from an organization, not even an MP, let alone an average Ukrainian citizen, we probably have to wait for something else. We're going to continue the lawsuit with these modern barbarians and still sell at a higher level to protect the interests of Odessa citizens, but nevertheless I would just like us to understand what's going on in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u131	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. The only thing I would ask is that you don't have a legal burden, but in court, it doesn't suit us to be in a drag. The fences pass the word to acid, please. Prepare Zapuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u132	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the requests of my voters from the Russian-speaking regions of Ukraine, and in Crimea the Russian language itself is the language of international communication, as well as the protest that soon national radicals will require us to forget Russian at all, regardless of the Constitution, which does not prohibit Russian in the Supreme Council, I will now speak Russian. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I will talk about the draft laws on opposition activities submitted by our colleagues, Bogatyreva and Timoshenko. In the whole world, and so I'm sure that will soon be in Ukraine, power respects the opposition at least because it understands that no one knows who will be the power tomorrow and who will be the opposition tomorrow? Having been thoroughly familiar with both the bills, as well as the experience of developed countries and countries with a high level of democracy, I can say this: My colleague Bogatyreva submitted her project at a time when our faction, the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was in opposition. That is, by summarizing the experience of other countries, given the specificities of Ukrainian policies and mentality, a very well-balanced draft law has been proposed. The Timoshenko project is characterized by extreme radicalism. First, examples: article 8 third paragraph, which provides that the opposition Kabmin may be formed only if the faction that has won the largest number of votes in the last elections is formed by the opposition Kabmin. And I have a question: What if our faction accidentally refused to form a opposition Kabmin? What do you mean, the Company doesn't have the right? This is discrimination. Article 16, paragraph 5 above, reads: “The Parliamentary opposition has the right to veto the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine if, in favour of the veto, I emphasize, the three four members of the opposition political parties vote against the total number of parliamentarians. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey,]] This means that some one hundred people's members of the opposition can completely block the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Is that normal? Next. In article 23, paragraph 5 is proposed as follows. The parliamentary opposition may initiate the consideration of the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers and the adoption of the resolution by the vote of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, if, again, I emphasize that the decision will be voted again by the three fourth members of the people from the opposition. The following example is found in article 28, paragraphs 2 and 3, which state that the opposition must have, once again, the Chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee, its first act, the pastime and the two State Commissioners. The pay of the Prime Minister of the opposition and a member of the Cabinet of Opposition Ministers should be made, I understand, from the State budget on terms and in order that are paid for today. Next. Information escort. They require that in article 44, a newspaper such as the Voice of Ukraine be created every week in the same volume and circulation. You know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u133	Please, Zapuk, Party of Regions. Get ready. Hussarov's handing over Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u134	Dear President, distinguished voters! Under the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers will submit a draft budget for 2007. The establishment of a real budget for Ukraine for 2007 is one of the most important tasks of the Government of Viktor Yanuković. Because this budget should become a real development plan for the country, outline ways of developing a domestic economy, and show the prospect of a higher standard of living for everyone. Today, it is essential to approach the development of the financial Constitution of Ukraine with qualitatively new approaches. The 2007 budget will be very innovative. One important money from privatization not to eat, but to invest in development projects in the country. Such approaches had already been applied in the practice of the Government of Viktor Yanuković in 2003-2004. The time has come to return to these models that have demonstrated their effectiveness. The 2007 State budget will provide a financial basis for the implementation of the Government's economic strategy to move towards an investment and innovation model for economic development. This budget clearly reflects an innovative and social dimension. These two areas will be as balanced as possible. The main distinguishing feature of the 2007 State budget will be that this budget will be as realistic and true as possible, it will be the present budget of truth. The populism spirit of last year's budget will be completely eradicated. The main objective of the Government of Viktor Yanukovic in the drafting of the 2007 budget is not to win the cheap love of its constituents through empty, voiced, unconfirmed promises, but to help its people by adopting the most objective, balanced and realistic budget. Because political populism is being avenged by the economy, and revenge is very severe, especially the rise in prices, which we are seeing today. Today's price rise is a payoff for last year's populist policy, which is a hard lesson for all of us. Before his people, we must be truthful and always tell him the truth, no matter how bitter and harsh it may be. We, the people's electorate, must give the new government carte blanche, allow it to work in a calm environment. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of legislators to impose on the draft budget our vision of the country's development priorities for the coming year, to develop common positions with the Government, to work together to understand how we will live next year and how we will develop our country's economy. The faction of the “Regions” Party calls on the colleagues of the People's Deputies to work actively and constructively on the 2007 draft budget. It is important and necessary to address the budgetary process from an economic perspective rather than a political perspective, the economy does not tolerate political vanity, and we have yet to solve many painful problems: the settlement of gas prices, energy tariffs, utilities. Such an approach alone is responsible and will only work on the main financial document of our colleagues, for whom the development of the country and the advancement of the well-being of the people are important, not political participation and the struggle for power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u135	Thank you. Hussarov conveys the word to John Popescu. Behind him, Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u136	Thank you, great colleagues. Pedestrian, faction of the “Regions” Party. During our first session, I was forced to turn to the Supreme Council’s rostrum for the need to allocate funds from reserve funds to restore the bridge across the Mali River. in the district of Chernobyl. I also made a parliamentary appeal in 31.082006 to the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, I was asked not only by the villagers but also by the head of the district government of the Watch Tower region and the head of the district council. And so I got this answer that in order to do first-line work on the elimination of the consequences of the disaster, the Cabinet of Ministers on August 1st was allocated 51 million dollars from the State Budget Reserve Fund, of which 6 million 597 thousand dollars were allocated to the Chernobyl District Administration. But it becomes clear that the restoration of the village of Lower. has not been attributed by the Montenegrin District Government to the primary measures taken to eliminate the consequences of a natural disaster financed by the State budget. The question is, Why does the State Administration and the Governor not address me if it does not include this object in the list of objects that need funding? The second point, taking into account what we said, we went to the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, which agreed to consider this issue, the additional allocation of funds, but with one condition that the Montenegrin District Administration will report on the targeted use of the funds that have been allocated to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, the government's order of August 1, 2006 No.438. On the basis of what I have been taught, I demand that the Montenegrin State Administration include in the list of priority actions to eliminate the impact of the disaster on the reconstruction of the village of Ninja Petrovci, provide an appropriate report on the use of funds and continue the construction of the bridge with a view to doing so by the new year. In addition, I pay attention to those politicians in the village of Lower St. Peter’s District Council to stop speculation about this object so that they can start working on their own, regardless of the political colour, this is the first question. And the second question. I got an answer from the Zacarpathian district, the highway service. There we used to say that the village of Medievals would be 600 years old. And they asked them to help repair the village’s roads, the central roads. And we are told: “To get the road in proper condition, we invite the village council to restore the water supply system at their own expense, and only then will the road service perform the ongoing repair of the road cover. I'm asking you to take this to heart, and next time, if the issue is not resolved, I've asked you a question about the review, the personnel capabilities of this service, maybe other people will be able to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u137	Thank you. Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Prepare Eutychus. He conveys the word of Acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. I would like to draw your attention to national security and defence issues, because I am directly representing this parliamentary committee. Dear compatriots, the huge number of problems that the government is solving today, solves the coalition that we have formed, is a great job for the people of Ukraine. But today we should not forget the situation that has arisen here, particularly in the power structures, particularly in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We will be discussing a series of laws with you next week, including the law on the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that, today, such questions should not only be related to the number that is clearly adjusted by the power of the country, its economic growth rate. Today we need to look at this problem and see if the number of short arms forces in Ukraine can ensure the structure and functions of that army, which should primarily ensure the defence and territorial integrity of our state. I want to tell you this: if we already have good reason today for Ukraine to direct its efforts towards entry into a military-political bloc, but I think that the will of the people of Ukraine must come first, whether he makes such decisions or not. But as long as such a decision is not in the referendum, each of us has a personal responsibility for the state’s defence. Today, I can express my heartfelt thanks to every man in pursuit. In extreme circumstances today, our representatives of the forces of Ukraine, the Armed Forces, other military formations, limiting themselves to civil rights, are carrying out their task of defending and protecting our national interests. That is why the problems of these people, in my view, should not apply exclusively to social problems anymore. These people must be supported in the information space, and the honor and dignity of the defenders of the country must be protected. Because, in my opinion, it is the army of the state that is now respecting all the other social components of our country that are at its centre. Gorbachev once destroyed an army. I don't want to lose the Ukrainian army in order not to lose Ukrainian independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u139	Eutukhov gives the word to Kiselov, please. He is followed by Oneszuk, who gives the word of Gnatenek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, given that I have not had enough half a minute to complete my statement, I would like to shade in two of the main points, in my view. When I examined both projects, the Richter project clearly spelled out the mechanism for financing opposition activities. At a time when the Timoshenko project did not say that it was unacceptable to use the funds of foreign and natural persons with foreign nationality. This is a very serious moment. But most of all, I want to say. In addressing the members of the working group and all colleagues, I would like to ask very carefully and fully to consider each article of the proposed drafts, to examine international experience and, above all, to deal conceptually with the opposition we need at this stage. Opposition to all the authorities' vertical actions against all the executive authorities on the ground and local self-government bodies, all the way to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, or we still need a balanced, constructive parliamentary opposition at this stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u141	Yes, please, Leo Gnatenko. Mironenko passes the word Popescu. But I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, let's use another rule. When someone makes a mistake, they immediately go out and say that he's behind it and he's 6 and 9 minutes as much time as he can take. I mean, Catherine Seed, come on, don't teach me how to follow the Rules, okay? Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u142	National Deputy of Ukraine Gnatenko Lev Mikolaiovich, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Honorable national deputies, especially national deputies, who represent the city of Odessa and the Odessa region. Under the MP's status, I'm the head of the legislative committee for the Ukrainian Armed Forces of the National Security and Defence Committee and my main tasks are state defence. As a citizen of Ukraine, however, I cannot stand by and observe how our country continues its policy of barbaric destruction of history and the masterpieces of the artistic and cultural foundation of Ukraine. During my stay in Odessa, I was approached by representatives of Odessa's social organizations to help preserve and restore and restore the world's historical value, the Odessa Museum of Western and Eastern Art. Among the museum’s exhibits are the productions of famous world artists such as Hals, Karavadgio, Rubens, Troci, Maniasco, the forum for the best European factories, paintings, sculptures, ceramics of Iran, Tibet, China, India. The collection has about 10,000 copies. The building where the museum is located is a monument to architecture, a palace built specifically under the location of a museum, but at present the situation of this true pearl of world art in Ukraine is dangerous. The reason for this is the need to do restoration and repair work in the museum. The museum needs the care of the state. The replacement of the museum's roof, the hardening of the walls, the cracks, the restoration of the decor, the replacement of engineering communications, is far from a complete list of priority measures to be taken immediately. I am forced to identify a catastrophic situation with regard to the organization of precious treasures of world importance. The house’s alarm system is morally and physically outdated and does not provide reliable protection for museum exhibits, costing hundreds of thousands of times the value of the most modern security systems. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act “On the Approval of the National Programme for the Conservation and Use of Cultural Heritage Objects”, I refer to the Odessa City Head, Gurvis Eduardo Josephovich, with a parliamentary address. First. I'm asking you to resolve the issue of setting up a modern alarm system that will provide reliable shelters and exhibits. When developing the budget of Odessa, it is necessary to provide the necessary funds for repairs and restorations. I propose to create a public fund for the museum and to expand the work on the restoration of the tradition of mecenity and the support of the museum by the industrial and entrepreneurial community of Odessa. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Although Edward Gurwiitz is a member of your political power, I think you can resolve this issue without making any reference. Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Masterful colleagues! Since I haven't finished thinking for the first time, I'll continue. The third issue I wanted to speak with today is that, as a result of my appeal to the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it has been considered and this question has been raised with regard to the forecasting of Ukraine's 2007 State Budget. Subsidies for the Chernobyl region for the purpose of compensation for the construction of underwater gas pipelines to the villages of Stroynci and Green Guy. The Novoselt district, a gas pipeline that had already been built. At present, a process is under way to form a draft Ukrainian Law on the 2007 State Budget, which provides for a subsidy to address the issue of gasification of the population. However, the way in which subsidies are used will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the administration of the finances of the Montenegrin State Administration, given this particular object. So I'm raising a question before the Finance Authority of the Montenegrin State Administration to take into account the moment when our appeal was considered. And in determining compensation costs for the construction of the Stroynz pipeline. The nouvelles region, in order for the development of the method of use of the selected subsidies this year, to ensure that they are not eliminated during the reprocessing process. Since this issue has not been considered in two consecutive years. And one last question. I also came from this rostrum at the request of the leaders of the Romanian societies in the Chernivec region, referring to cultural societies, I went to the city administration, the city council of Chernivci, to return the house that was in its time owned by Romanian societies. And this house was called the Cultural Palace “Roman”, and in its time this house was nationalized and handed over to the Armed Forces. It opened a garrison house for the culture of the city of Chernivci, which means 29 garrison. In connection with the reform of this garrison, this house of officers was listed as number 1 of the real estate of the Armed Forces, which could be estranged, and at the disposal of the funds, they had to buy apartments for the military. The City Council informed us that 50 apartments had already been purchased and handed over to the military. But at the same time, this building was not removed from the list of objects requiring alienation. That is why I am addressing the Minister of Defence this time, and I ask you to consider this to be my parliamentary request to remove the former Palace of Culture of the “Roman” region of Montenegro, the current Officer's House on the list of objects that are subject to privatisation of the return of the Romanian community to provide offices and facilities for relevant cultural societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u145	Ephremov conveys the word to Koleschenk, please follow him, Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! A party of regions. Deputy Koleschenko. I'll probably open up a terrible secret to our deputies when I remind them that the town of Sevastopol is not just a city where two fleets are located, that it's a hero city, that it's a busy city, and it's still a huge wine area. The Sevastopol wine-growing zone was established back in the 1960s as a single complex with a closed production cycle in Sevastopol. For many years, its enterprises have created and developed unique varieties of grapes and wines, established Ukrainian winemaking traditions, and for decades predetermined the development of the Ukrainian wine industry. Most of them continued to maintain economic ties. Thus, the flagman of Ukrainian winemaking The Inckerman wine factory in 1990 was recognized as one of the world's best wine-growing industries, and not only has it not reduced the production of high quality products today, but it continues to grow this product during difficult times throughout the country. I'll say that in Sevastopol there are cognacs, champagne, high-quality Inkerman wines that we see more in Kiev. All these products are exported, including abroad. However, the previous Government of Timoshenko was able to give a “beautiful gift” to the Sebastopols when Ministry of Agrarian Policy Order No. 462 of 8 September 2005 was issued that the Sebastopol farms Polina Osipenko and Sadovod were joined by the New World wine plant of champagne. The New Light is a Crimea plant more than 200 kilometres away from these farms. As a result, the Sevastopol budget began to go away, and we eventually lose control of the territory and, in fact, we are starting to go on the road to destroying the wine industry in Sevastopol. Commodity base is declining. The production of Moroccan wines is limited, the development of grapes is limited and, most importantly, it has been done to provide a commodity base for the champagne wine factory “New Light”. But this factory will lose too, because without the support of a number of standing vineyard joints that are in Sevastopol's territory, they will die. And it is not excluded that, in fact, for the wineries and, including, the Inkerman factory, which is now losing its products, everything will be lost. I therefore consider it necessary, given the high social significance of the wine industry, to abolish the order of Vinagroprom, to return the farm of Polina Osipenko and the gardener to the bosom of Sevastopol. And I propose to the Supreme Council that we combine our efforts to create grapes and wine producers into a closed cycle on the basis of a voluntary democratic principle of uniting these farms, not as it is today, for example, with the enterprises of Massandra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Orest Mutz faction “Regions”, followed by Sandler.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, Oreste Mutz, faction of the Party of Regions, Ternopil. I would like to refer from this rostrum to the Attorney General, to the Minister of Internal Affairs, to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Rogozin Ukraine, Mr. Rogozin. In view of the numerous appeals made to me as a national deputy of Ukraine and a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption by the authorities of the Government of the Ternopil region and the employees of the labour force, I ask that you study the legality of the situation that has been the subject of VAT “Oblenergo”. The operation of the whole farm complex in the area and the well-being of its inhabitants depends on the work of the ‘Ternopilblanergo’ VAT. I express my sincere concern that, for several years now, the VAT “Ternopilloblanergo” has been a wasteful enterprise, despite the fact that the level of electricity calculations in the Ternopil region is quite high. This suggests that management staff are either underprofessional or criminally and grumpy about their responsibilities. Doubts and arguments are raised about the management of an enterprise that is not connected with the provision and transfer of electricity. It is also about transferring high voltage power lines into the agreement of one of the Ternopil construction firms. Not about the purpose of using the funds received, nor about the questionable agreements of voluntary insurance and so forth. All of this leads to the lack of sufficient funds for the government’s programme and for the protection of the most vulnerable. It seems that the government of the ‘Ternopilblanergo’ VAT deliberately ignores state interests, regardless of the fact that the state owns the controlling package of shares, and has turned the business into its own wasteland, where there are no general shareholders' assemblies, no dividends, no activity controls. I hope, with your personal participation, that a number of problems that today, more than ever, are acutely faced by the ‘Ternopilloblenergo’ VAT will be resolved. First of all, I would like to ask the law to give a legal assessment to the following facts: the legality and relevance of the use of funds during 2004-2005 by article: administrative costs, costs of other operating expenses. So I would like to take this opportunity to pay attention to the above crimes and give them a legal evaluation. I personally ask Mr. Rogozin to intervene in the situation that took place on Ternopilla today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u149	Thank you. Dmitri Sandler. I don't see him. Matthew, not either. Spiridon Kilincarov. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u150	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Literally, two days ago, we had a heated discussion with you about the establishment of the Special Commission of Inquiry to support the rise in prices and tariffs for utilities. And we've made that decision. I personally voted in favour of that decision, our faction voted in favour of that decision. But let's be honest with ourselves that this decision does not solve the substantive issue, that is, the term of this commission six months, at best we will get the conclusions of this commission in March next year. Therefore, the question that today, the most painful question, I think, is today the price of utilities. That is why this issue needs to be addressed today. We cannot close our eyes on the divide that is taking place in the formation of prices and tariffs for utilities. Given that we do not know so far what the price of gas will be after January 2007, I would consider it necessary to put forward today as a priority the draft regulation that has been prepared personally by me and the representatives of the Party of the Regions and the Social Party on the introduction of a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. This increase and the moratorium should be made at least by April next year, and the decision should be taken. This is not a populist step, it is merely an attempt by Parliament to influence the Cabinet of Ministers to finally address issues that have not been addressed for a long time. I am speaking of the fact that, over the past 15 years, no one has actually engaged in the introduction of new energy-saving technologies. As a rule, everyone was on the path of least resistance – there are economically sound tariffs, and they raised them. And no one has thought about the losses that we have suffered in transporting these energy carriers. The relevance of this issue is also confirmed by the assumption that, in our Luhansk region, 750 000 people have been killed. Pensioners who receive an average monthly pension of 490 grivens. The pension growth since 1 July amounted to 2.6 per cent and the minimum wage increased by as much as nine bracelets. The increase in tariffs since 1 July was about 250 per cent. That is to say, if the cost of a single-room family apartment of 154 bracelets before raising the tariffs, today it will be 435 bracelets. I therefore request the people's deputies to support the draft regulation that we have drawn up, and it is registered here in the Supreme Council, to introduce a moratorium on raising tariffs at a minimum until April 2006 and to entrust Kabmin with the development of a real mechanism for the protection and interests of those people who are not socially protected from such increases in prices and tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u151	Andrew School, followed by Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u152	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Honorable National MPs, distinguished TV setters, distinguished voters! I am pleased to point out that before me was a representative of power, a majority in Parliament who voted in favour of the formation of a government that has raised prices, and now this majority is turning to the government that she voted for, formed, authorized him to impose a moratorium on price increases. Gentlemen, prices have risen so high that we can avoid imposing moratoriums. I could say that outspokenly. That's it, that's it. The train went off, you can only wave with a handkerchief at his back, which my predecessor did. But I'm glad you're doing it. Too late. I want to remind you that you're in power. Yours is the Prime Minister, all ministers, such a professional minister of transport and communication, such a professional minister of the fuel and energy complex. Indeed, they have so unscrupulously taken to raise prices, and now, I stress, there is also double discrimination. I was presented here by a representative of Western Ukraine. I want to remind him that the representatives of Western Ukraine will pay much more for the consumption of gas, because transport of gas will also be included in the price. And he'll be transporting from Russia. It is I who salute all the voters of Western Ukraine. In principle, they realized what had happened, but when they went to pay for the gas, they would feel it in their own pocket. Next. I'm interested in the situation at all. I also had a representative here from "Our Ukraine," and he told a very interesting story about what's going on in Odessa, and I'm also embarrassed, but he didn't say a word about how he was a representative of the coalition that was negotiating and put together the Universal about what Prime Minister Janukovic said that Ukraine was not going to NATO. I did, but I won't go. How did this, well, not have to sign the Memorandum at the time. Where was the truth? I know he's the master of his word, but I didn't know he was the master of his signature. He signed it and now he's taken it away. Or I didn't. Or maybe he was authorized by the President because I didn't hear the President react to this, and I heard the President's response, but not the President's. So I'm actually confused about this, too, I don't know, maybe something happened. But there's no reaction or information on that. Next. When we talk about it, whether in the memo or in the university, it was about language, it was about language. Have there been any discrimination I'm reading here? In Donetsk, a citizen of Litwin, 42 years of age from his own background, learning Ukrainian alone, using it at work, was humiliated by writing into a workbook for being an unqualified worker. He's going to court right now. Mr. Litwin is his last name. I'll give you all the documents if you're interested. And now he's defending his rights in court. So let's just call things our names here. I want to see the time come when masks will be ripped off, who signed and who is the host.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u153	Thank you, Andrew. But you sign -- then you'll be criticizing the Memorandum or the Universal. Sign it, and you'll have to do it. Why do you ask him to do it if he doesn't have your signatures? Catherine Samuel, please. Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u154	Dear voters, distinguished radio audiences! I want to express my concern about ignoring the Constitution of Ukraine. It is most impressive that it is the guarantor of the Constitution who selectively refers to the fulfilment of constitutional obligations. What I mean. I have two areas in Hersonish, which I represent, such as Novotroitsky and Calanchik. The Regional Councils, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, expressed their mistrust to the heads of the Reichs. So I want to think about it: almost a full session of the district council. Hottie and Bologna. Consider: they voted “in favour” and “Our Ukraine”, and the UK Company, and “Regions” and BUT – that is, the decision was taken without political prejudice. But it has been almost six months, and it is clear that people are not reaching the direction of the areas, and the national farm complex has been neglected. Apart from the resistance, the glazing, there's nothing. From this rostrum, I know that the President of this rostrum will at least hear, I am addressing the President of Ukraine: do your constitutional duty – and release the leaders of Novotroitsky, among other things, the largest rural area of our state, and the Kalanchi district. Because the main argument for the appointment of these leaders was that they waved the Mayan Independence with an orange flag for four days. This is not an argument for appointment. Well, are these the main advantages for managers of such rank? If the President isn't informed, it's a disgrace. Why do you punish people who are barren, unprepared leaders of the people of Ukraine? And in general, we both need to understand in the session room that we need to end up with a two-man team that we have to drag into the ropes between the governments and the district councils. We urgently need to move towards the basic, final stage of political reform. Without it, we will never be able to overcome what is happening in all the regions of Ukraine. Once again, it's up to the President of Ukraine. But he doesn't want to, he doesn't want to notice what's going on in the regions of our country. Dear voters, the time has come when we should really be expressing our opinion of what to be Ukraine and therefore, I and all of you are joining us in completing political reform and really being the people of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Mikola Komar is handing Yuri Baldirev over, please. After him, Bespallius gave the word to Teren.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u156	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Boldyrev. The prophet Euclesiast says: “The year is passing and the generation is passing.” This hall knows politicians who called 15 years ago to cut off their fingers for the Russian word spoken. Today, these policies have become normal people who are very tolerant of their colleagues. For the second time, I have asked representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko faction not to disembark the boat. I believe you are not enemies of Ukraine, I believe you love your country. And that's why I urge you to be careful not to say harsh words that may offend, bypass and make other people's personal enemies. Power is sacral. At least in our country, with the mentality of the population that we have, power is perceived as a sacral thing. Do not destroy it yourself if you truly love your homeland. Unfortunately, other mechanisms for building a State will not be invented with you today. What countries over 200 years of democracy can demonstrate, those countries that destroyed the sacral system 200 years ago have built a new one, but it's been years, centuries. Therefore, once again, I call upon you, representatives of the current opposition, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, not to start a boat, not to say sharp things, work in parliamentary methods, draft bills, discuss them. And most of the deputies will vote and thus determine the way of our country, including in language policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u157	Yes, please, instead of Bespalo Teren. I can't see the crane. Get ready, Tomenko too. Borschevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u158	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear fellows, our citizens! There were such, you know, very serious complaints about the destruction of Lenin’s monument in Odessa. And I'd like to ask, and on what basis is it actually supposed to be there, and on what basis do these stems have to do to date throughout Ukraine? Lenin’s Monument as Whom? As the founder of the Ukrainian State? But according to Lenin’s personal instructions, the Muraviova gang, which had shed blood on Ukraine, had children under the Kruts, was sent to Ukraine. And in Kiev, in the first days alone, more than 5,000 citizens were destroyed. Everyone who spoke English was destroyed. Next, in the book The Golden Party, Igor Bunic cites documents that show that in the early 20s, when hunger was raging in Ukraine, Cuba, the Pohalji, Lenin's personal accounts, Trotsky was transferred millions of dollars and Swiss francs, and in particular Lenin's account was transferred over $60 million, that is, documents. So Lenin is going as a co-ordinator of corruption. And if these facts, cited by Bunich, are false, refer them to the court. Next. Or was Lenin’s advice such that when hunger raged, I refer again to the documentary in the book Igor Bunić and quoted in the original language, where he says: “And the cook should be put in prison because the step was not fresh yesterday. ” And that's when people starved to death when they mowed typhoid. And to this man, these are documentary facts, and to this man who founded the concentration camps, his personal instructions, documentary data, which ordered the shooting of all and all and, above all, the priests, to this day in independent Ukraine, are stoned by monuments in villages and cities. To this day its quotations can be read, for example, in the Kiev subway. And I ask you to consider this speech as a question of parliament to the mayor of Kyiv Czernovecki. How long is it going to be that the Kyiv subway stations are turning into the Lenin Museum? Doc? Next. This is all hypocrisy. This is hypocrisy. And when Communists speak up and reproach the government, it is hypocrisy. I want to ask, what government? Remember how the communists spoke at the last session and said that the government, when it was Yehanurov, was a national-socialist government. Please tell me what he is now. Oligarchy-Socialist-Communist? But it's your government, the communists, that's raised the tariffs three times on housing. And the phrase “Two Victors Unite Ukraine” turned into what today is the same thing as robbing Lviv, where the tariffs rose three times, and Kiev, and Donetsk. And this unites Ukraine today. I'm sorry. And when the cost of Ukrainian gas is 114 dollars, they raised the price to 444. This is also a fact. And the money goes to RossukrEnergo. The proceeds of this criminal structure in 2005 amounted to two billion dollars, now five billion. It's your government, it's a government that's in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u159	If that is the case, it would be wise to say who sent the children into the fold. Please, Victor Borszewski. Behind him is Chewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u160	National MP Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. I can't say this briefly about my colleague's words after those words about Lenin. Today Lenin's monuments stand and will stand in Ukraine because all the power of the State has been created by the State that was founded by Vladimir Ilic Lenin, and which for 15 years this power has been trying, including orange, to destroy and they have not even had enough to destroy it. That is why Lenin's memorials will be, and they will stand. But I want to move on to another question. Could be directly linked to it. Today, the most important, here's what's being discussed in society, is prices and tariffs. And again, I'm surprised at this hypocrisy when they say that there's a new government, it's all done. But if you'll excuse me, because gas prices and more have started to rise at Prime Minister Timoshenko, it has continued to be the orange government of Echanurov. Echanurov refused to negotiate with trade unions the signing of the General Treaty on tariff issues. So, yes, the commission, fine. And the bush is working, but we must draw attention to this issue today and at the central representative level. Today, we are creating a certain moral imbalance between the different levels of representative power. It is today that our colleagues of local councils have become hostages in price, tariff policies, and we must open this complex node here in this room. And the question is not just in the tariffs themselves. So let's look at it in a comprehensive way today, and what is our state of energy today? Today, almost most of the electricity is supplied by nuclear power plants, but they are not fully operational. And what caused this? First, private skynergoes, energy carriers do not in fact allow for the full use of energy. That's why we have to, second moment, we have to. How to raise tariffs when we have wages, the capacity to pay people does not allow these tariffs to be paid. Therefore, we must consider both energy and wages in an integrated manner and only then can we solve the problem of housing and address the issue of tariffs. But today we need to halt this growth, and I think I support my colleague, Kilinkarov, and continue to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u161	Andrew Shevchenko has the floor. Now I'm going to name the last name that we have left of those who signed up, Corge -- no, Kaletnik -- no, Zvaric -- will you be speaking? Igor? Get ready to cook. Please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u162	Good Health! I'm sorry that I have to do what I've been asked to do before the empty hall. About an hour ago, a campaign of journalists was launched here in the Supreme Council, entitled “Hands Off From Freedom!” It was conducted by journalists and journalists who claim that they are not satisfied with how the Gongadze cases are being investigated, not satisfied with the situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine, and who say that their aim is to establish public journalistic control over cases of infringement of professional rights of journalists. They gave me, as the head of the Committee, my demands, I will read these requirements. First. It's to remove the MP's in touch with the national deputy Oleg Kalashnikov. It's different. Break a criminal case by obstructing the professional activity of the 5th Channel filming group in Kiev-Pecher Lavra. Third. To be held accountable by Kyiv Prime Minister Leonid Czerniewecki, who systematically violates the rights of journalists. Fourth. Journalists call on MPs to block the passage of the Bill of Deputy Kiselova, the bill foresees charges of slandering journalists to send them to correctional work and to plant them in prison for up to two years. Let's go. Let's go, Create a transparent system for the accreditation of journalists to the authorities so they don't turn into a filtration system for journalists or mass media. By keeping these demands in hand, I just think it's another sign and a reminder to us that the war against journalism in Ukraine. It is not just the Tarsus Cross, it is indeed the Kalashnikov, and it is the attempts of Chernobyl to tell journalists who can interview and who can not. It's also a bill by an MP from the Kiselova Region Party, and it's also a dozen attempts to change the editors of local newspapers, and these attempts are made by various political forces, including all the political forces that are represented in Parliament. To sum up, I can say that there is a sense that we have a risk of going backwards and, I think, this is the moment when journalists should clearly say, "Hands off!" from their profession. I'll also say today's impression of the Gongadze hearings, I think it's finally convinced us that the Gongadze case is, in fact, a symbol of the degradation of the entire Ukrainian political system. Because we know that she was killing Guy's Kuchma system, which is now being transformed into blue and white. We know that the orange authorities have successfully overturned the Gongadze case. And I'll say that probably in all five factions, in all five of our factions, the people who are responsible for the fact that Gongadze is still a national disgrace. Finally, I'm going to say that I'm convinced that the attitude towards the press is a diagnosis of the political system in Ukraine. This system is doomed if politicians fail to make a conscious choice in favor of freedom and truth. The years of Gaia for journalists will always remind us to stand up for ourselves. Like Hya Gongadze, I believe in a successful country, and it's only possible if there's a successful journalistic, worthy and honest profession here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Igor Zvarich. Yes, there is not, Bondarenko Olena – no, Grigorovich – no, Landik – no, Tihonov, Suhi, Bertash, Yavorowski, Beveljenko, Korsakov, Kovalyvska gives the word Miroshnichenko to prepare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u164	Dear friends! You know, I'm glad to have Mr. Andriy Shevchenko in the hall who appealed that there was no one in the hall, because yesterday in the newspaper Kiev News of September 14, this year I read this phrase: “I have been accused of all the heavy orange government and the deputy from the Party of the Zvaric regions. with the Minister of Justice, stated that all Governments - both Timoshenko and Kinaha and Yehanurov and Desert Tenko and Yanukovič - were guilty of gas disruptions.” If you know how to speak honestly, I did not speak from the Supreme Council’s rostrum yesterday, and I simply could not blame anyone — no government, no other government, no third or fourth. So I agree that we should be very tolerant of journalists. And at the same time, I think it's a two-way situation, and they also have to be very careful about what they write about national MPs as well. And as for this topic in general, already gas, not journalism, I should say that, first of all, one of the most important emphasis should be the emphasis that the new government is working, suddenly a month and a few days, in fact, it has moved on to the tariffs that many people are talking about today. So I'm deeply convinced that both the committee that is made and the common sense will always win this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u165	Please, Miroshnichenko, U.R.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I also regret that there are not many national deputies left in the Hall, but at the same time I would like to address both the deputy head of Adam Ivanovich and the Supreme Council's apparatus and, above all, the committee heads. Since I was a witness when the Inter Channel, a central television channel, showed empty lines of our faction and the comment was that not all deputies attend sessions, I was sorry. At the same time, I would like to bring to the attention of our electorate and, as I said, to the relevant officials of the Supreme Council, which is very often the reason why the National Deputy of Ukraine is absent from his seat during the session, is the holding of committees or subcommittees. Accordingly, understanding that our professional work takes place on committees or subcommittees, we participate in their work and, at the same time, are not present in the hall. Accordingly, I would like to refer to the heads of the committees who also appoint the Supreme Council's apparatus so that they do not appoint committees and subcommittees to the sessional sessions. And accordingly, we will be able to objectively evaluate the work of each national MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-15-m0.u167	Yes, thank you for the recommendation, but nothing needs to be done here. We need to implement the Committees Act and the Rules, which clearly state that any committee meeting during the session can only be held by decision of the Supreme Council. So this, once again, I explain to everyone and also to the committee heads that they have no right to do this. And you, as law-abiding, should come to the committee and say that you should be in the session room at this time. All who wanted to take the floor had the opportunity to do so. This morning’s session is closed. And I remind you, dear colleagues, that our next plenary meeting is on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Good luck.
