ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV sets, and radio audiences. I ask MPs to prepare for registration, insert cards. A registration is being carried out. [[10:00:18]] There are 240 national deputies registered in the hall, and the rest are not registered. But the morning session is open. A meeting of the Conciliation Council has just ended. We've discussed the situation with regard to the issue that today is the subject of the work of the Supreme Council, which is the formation of committees and a special review committee of the Supreme Council. On yesterday, four factions submitted their proposals, one failed to submit, and then the faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" recalled its determination, more faithfully, its proposal to form committees. In discussing this issue at a meeting of the Supreme Council, I was talking about the fact that the formation of committees, their personal composition, has no relation whatsoever to the division of the Supreme Council into opposition and coalition. It's a selection of deputies with clear proportions based on the law, by their professional character, and by their willingness to work in a particular sector of legislation. I'd like us to take that into account. We're going to continue to drag anywhere, because that's not even an argument for society, and yet we've got, according to yesterday's adopted decision, proposals from all the factions that Monday on the Conciliation Council, which will take place at 11 o'clock here on the third floor, we'll take a thorough look at this issue and determine the prospect of working on committees of deputies who are representatives of different political factions, but will be represented on committees. Again, I remind you that proportional representation should be ensured. The minimum number of deputies in the faction of 7 persons, on the committee, is a maximum of 20. There will be no committees of 40-35 people, because this has always been the case for many years, and this has been the case as the possibility of hiring those deputies who thought that, for example, in a committee in foreign affairs, you could travel abroad, and through a budget committee, you could influence everything that's related to the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we're ready to consider these issues, accept them according to the needs of society and the functions of the Supreme Council, and do so on Tuesday morning at 10 a.m. In the meantime, I would like to announce that today is the birthday of Zabarsky's deputies Vladislav Valeriyovich and Lisov Igor Volodymirovich, I would like all of us to welcome them. And in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of 7 July 2006, I will inform you of the election of the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine's National Deputy Tsushka Vasil Petrovich and the election of the deputy heads of the Socialist Party of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Ivan Sidorovich and Matvienkov's Sergy Anatoliyovich, and of the fact that, according to my wish, the faction has been relieved of the decision of the faction from the duties of the deputy head of the Vienna Faction, Josef Vicentiyovich. I'm asking you to take into account all the information I've said, including about the meeting of the Conciliation Board on Monday at 11 p.m. Meanwhile, I'm closing this meeting in the morning. The break is announced by 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday the 18th. Thank you.
