ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, we register. [[10:01:49]] There were 398 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Let us join in welcoming today's nouns, Anastasia's Valentina Alexiyovich and Gurova Vadim Mikolaiovich. I think there's a deep symbol that the day before Soviet Army Day we're celebrating Valentine Alexiyovich's birthday, the fighting general, the winner of the Victory Parade in the distant year 1945. Let them serve our cause. Let me inform you of the results of our work with you yesterday. We've considered 29 issues of the agenda. As a result, three laws and two decrees were passed, five bills were adopted as a basis, and four bills and two drafts were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine’s proposals: five laws have been passed in a new edition, the President’s veto has been overrun by two laws, and six laws have been repealed. Please listen to the announcement: in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I will inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Svatkova Leonid Borisovich, into the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Moisik Vladimir Romanović into the political party's parliamentary faction "The People's Union of Our Ukraine". In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I ask the factions to submit their applications, in the meantime I will proceed to the announcement of the requests of the national MPs. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mr. Alexander MARCHENKA to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the search on 15 October 2004 by the employees of the law enforcement agencies of the private enterprise Western Service and the arrest of Jaroslav Godunka. I'm probably paying attention to both the Secretariat and those who submit, let's still split the questions, because this is where they wrote "to the President," all the others, and if we ask the President, we have to vote. If we don't vote, your request, I'm sorry, will go away, because it's primarily directed to the President, so I'm calling your attention to the following. Since there is a request, I am voting to support the request to the President of Ukraine. Alexander Marchenka's request. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:05:48]] For-28 Not supported. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the President of Ukraine, the prime minister's responsibility to prevent the destruction of the shipbuilding and metallurgical industries of Ukraine, to support these strategic sectors of the economy. I'm voting to support the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:24]] For-64 I repeat, I read as it is written. You write correctly. What you want does not mean that the chairman should do your will. Get rid of the Secretariat! Valeria Assadcheva to the President of Ukraine, the prime minister's responsibility to ensure the functioning of the National House of Organic and Chamber Music of Ukraine. I'm betting on a vote to support the question. [[10:07:08]] For-44 Not supported. Igor CHELOMBITZA to the President of Ukraine on the maintenance of the legality and protection of the interests of the Ukrainian producer in carrying out the calculations of the state enterprises of the Republic of Moldova for the goods imported from Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:39]] For-21 Not supported. Victor DRACHEVSKI TO THE President of Ukraine, the prime minister's duty to prohibit further expansion and closure of the dry nuclear fuel depot at the Zaporozhye AES. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:12]] Z-77 Not supported. Oleg TGAGNIBOK to the President of Ukraine, the Acting Prime Minister, the Secretary of the RNBO for the return of nuclear status to Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:44]] For-7. Not supported. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Development of Software Products in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the installation on the computers of the National Deputies of the Ukrainian-speaking Microsoft Office and the “RUTA 5.0” program. [[CARMAZIN, ALLOSHIN, BLACK]] BOYS OF KATHUSH to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for helping the inhabitants of the city of Feodosius to cope with an emergency of drinking water. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the removal from the responsibilities of the Chief Executive of Maczuk. [[BILORUS, CERNOVIL, MARKUS, AND OTHERS]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of the requirements of article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, non-response to the need to create normal conditions for the library to secure the legislative process. Ms. Vladimir Lještenka is responsible for the Prime Minister's three-month delay in the payment of social assistance to children in the town of Seminovka Chernigiv region. Petra SIMONENKA and Valentina MATWEYEVA are responsible for the Prime Minister's duties to distribute and use the funds received from the sale of the Open Shareholder Association “Cruvoristal”. Oleg ZARUBINSKI AND VADIM GUROVA to the Prime Minister’s duty to provide further clarification on the information provided by the Head of the State Main Foundation during the speech at the Supreme Council on October 20, 2005. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the prime minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Fuel and Energy in connection with the state of gas and heat calculations in the city of Bila Church. Jury SOLOMATANA to perform the duties of Prime Minister in connection with the inaction of the central executive authorities to establish the actual state of citizenship of Corpan, who since September 2004 has been the personal physician of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, the national deputy – now the President of Ukraine Victor Yashchenk and the responsibility of Korpan for the production and use of the forged document. Igora ŠAROVA to the prime minister, Minister of Interior and Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Attorney-General for Investigating the activities of the capital construction company Elita Centre, attracting the responsibility of the persons responsible for the acquisition of housing buyers. John TOMIĆA to the prime minister’s responsibility to prevent further unwarranted increases in the price of sugar and to achieve price stability in the internal market for sugar. Vladimir DEMOJINA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Attorney General of the Minister of Transport and Communications, Commissioner for Human Rights, on the problems that have arisen at the State Enterprise “Herson Sea Trade Port”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the prime minister's duties regarding the violation of the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on improving the living conditions of liquidators. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the prime minister's responsibilities regarding the reasons for the 30 per cent implementation of the funds allocated in 2005 in the form of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the gasification of rural areas in the Chernigian region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the prime minister’s responsibility to allocate funds for the capital repair of the road to the village of the Safer Wonderland region of the Žitomir region. Leonidas KADENJUKA to the prime minister's duty to threaten Ukraine's national interests by ignoring the State's standard for the introduction of international standards on liquor products. Eugen Filindash to the prime minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the activities of the Government of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to perform the duties of the Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science as regards the payment of arrears under article 57 of the Education Act. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the prime minister’s responsibilities to verify the use of the 2005 budget for the Plains Reserve Fund. Michael ZUBZA to the prime minister's duty to free research holdings of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences from higher income accounting standards. Dmitry PAVLIČK to perform the Prime Minister’s duties regarding the unsatisfactory introduction of the system of registration of immovable property rights. Mr. Olega ZIMINA to the prime minister, the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the systematic violations of public procurement legislation by the State Customs Service. Jurya BOYKA to the prime minister's responsibility to reimburse the inhabitants of the village of Korniyevka in the region of Kiev, which builds the gas pipeline itself. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister’s duty to locate a site for the burial of radioactive approaches at a distance of 1.5 km from the villages of Radisna and the Red Armyman of the region of Ivankovsky, Odessa. MICHELLE RADIO to the prime minister’s responsibilities in establishing a city’s children’s hospital in Chernig. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK is responsible for the prime minister’s responsibility to finance rural fire protection. Vassila SOPOVA and Pavel SULKOVSKOVA are responsible for the prime minister’s duties to eliminate the consequences of the extraordinary situation in the city of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Ms. Alexander Goluba to the prime minister and Minister of the Interior for the violation of the rule of law by the management of the State Enterprise “Centre of the State Land Cadastre of the State Committee on Land Resources” in the calculation of contractors’ enterprises. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister's duties regarding the problem of paying wages to employees of bankrupt enterprises owned by the State, in particular those of the State Enterprise AtomSpecBud. [[ISAIAH, COMAR, CORSACOV]] Tarasa ČORNOVOLA and Ludmila KIRIČENKO are responsible for the duties of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture and Tourism and the Minister of Defence as regards the inadmissibility of the liquidation of the Lviv Dramatic Theatre of the Western Operational Command of the Armed Forces and the transfer of the theatre to the Lviv State Academy of Music named Lysenka. Petra SIMONENKA and GEORGIA PONOMARENK are responsible for the prime minister's responsibility to finance the work of the disposal of solid rocket fuel at the state-owned plant Pavlograd Chemical Plant. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the Prime Minister's duties to implement the Act on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval as a Transit State in 2002-2010. VOLADIMARY KEY to prime minister, Ministry of Health for the illegal transfer of workers from the Dublin City Hospital mother and child in the Plains region from permanent work to temporary work Tamara, who has become disabled as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, is responsible for the Prime Minister’s responsibility to provide housing for children with disabilities. Ms. Aleksandra KARENKA to the prime minister's duties regarding the baseless refusal of tax services in Komsomolska Donetské region in the introduction of a single tax system for city utilities. Vladimir JAVORIY to the prime minister's task of concealing information about the construction in the Chernobyl area of the nuclear waste disposal centre on the basis of agreements concluded between the EnergoAtom National Shareholder and the questionable American company Holdek International, which took place without public discussion, and transforms Ukraine's territory into a world nuclear waste dump. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister's duty to fail to comply with the rules of law regarding the replacement of the Zaporeznik vehicle within the term of inadequacy for the inhabitants of the Poltava region. Anatolysa Rachánské to the prime minister’s duties regarding the purpose of financing measures to prevent the submergment of the villages of the Sachsen region and the destruction of the healing factors of Saka’s State Hall and the Eupatoria Children’s Hospital in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. A group of deputies to the acting prime minister on the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Trade Council. [[CONSTANTINS, SAS, BOARDS, AND OTHERS]] Stepan HMARI to the Prime Minister's responsibility to provide information on normative acts unlawfully issued by the Yanuković government under the “not for printing” clause. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the prime minister's responsibility to finance work in the disposal of floods in the Montenegrin region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVO to the prime minister’s responsibility for the improper provision of an agribusiness complex in the Herson area of agricultural technology. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to perform the Prime Minister’s duties to re-profile premises in the city of Yagotini in the Kyiv region from the centre of temporary detention of refugees at the Chernobyl Medical Center. Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties regarding the destabilization of the work of the closed-circuit association of the Maquis Metallurgical Plant. [[A CALETIC, A HOTINIC, AND OTHERS]] Dmitry PAVLIČK to the prime minister's responsibilities in the development of the State programme for the release of textbooks and other teaching literature in Ukrainian for higher education institutions. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Acting Deputy Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for taking into account the schemes of the expert of the U.S. Federal Prosecutor's Office in the investigation of the Attorney-General's Office for the prosecution of the charges against Lazarenko, Kirichenko and others, as well as the execution of the President's mandate to renew the activities of the Interministerial Commission to determine the legal basis for the return to Ukraine of the funds obtained by the criminal route of Lazarenko and his associates, among which, according to US justice documents, is Julia Timoshenko as a shareholder of the offshore Cypriot firm. Mr. Alexander Goluba is responsible for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in the area of the debt insurance for the disabled of the Great Homeland War by means of a means of transport. MICHAEL VOLINZA to perform the duties of Vice-Prime Minister Kirilenk as to dissatisfaction with the answer to a request for a state expert on working conditions. MICHELLA TO the Attorney General for delaying the completion of the pretrial investigation in connection with the massive falsification of the results of the election in the hundredth district during the presidential election. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for failure to execute court decisions by the state executive service in the region of Alexandria. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the National Bank, on the responsibility of officials of the National Bank who did not carry out bank supervision duties, which led to the bankruptcy of the shareholding commercial bank “Premierbank”. Sergey SLABENKA to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for preventing the execution of electoral agitation by throwing stones at a vehicle from unknown persons in Makiyivka district of Donetsk. Jury CARMAZINA and Igor SMIENENKA to the Attorney General, Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of Sevastopol City Administration for the illegal destruction of Sevastopol's largest collective agricultural enterprise, “Beautiful October”. Michael POLENCHIĆI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation and bodily harm to the agitators in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General on the abuse of the position of officials of the Hmelnick Regional Office of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Construction. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General about the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Trade Council. NVIERA MHITARIANA to the Attorney-General for delaying the investigation of allegations of a criminal offence by the authorities of the district of Suma for the death of a citizen because of the non-professional actions of doctors. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, for the arbitrary seizure of land by individual construction companies in the city of Ternopol. Istwana HYDOSH to the Attorney General in connection with the failure of the court to execute its decision to reinstate the post of editor-in-chief of the newspaper Carpati igoz s. MICHELLA to the Attorney General for the violation of specific issues of financial and economic activity by the director of Kyiv’s higher vocational school of construction and road transport. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney-General on the violation of legislation on the procurement of goods, works and services for public funds in the formation and execution of the General Agreement between the State Tax Administration and the Society with limited responsibility “Science-Implementing Company BKP-Consulting”. Leonida Kadenjuk to the Attorney General on the investigation of a robbery at the Herson branch of the West Incombank Commercial Bank, a citizen who is a user with an individual safe. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Attorney General for the unobjective investigation of the Deaf County Interstate Prosecutor’s Office of the Suma Region of Road Traffic, which resulted in the trauma and death of children. Anton KISSE to the Attorney General on infringement of the laws, economic and personal rights of entrepreneurs in the “Stub” market in Odessa. MIKOLI ADANIKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation by threatening to cause bodily harm to the agitators and the destruction of the advertising tent in the Proletar district of Donetsk. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General for the removal of workers in the social sphere of the village of Štaslove, Gyrski and Gnydin of the Kyiv Region of the Land Rights and Use of Land. Ms BICHKOVA to the Attorney-General for the inappropriate reaction of the prosecutor's authorities to the question of the facts of the deliberate obstruction by the City's Synthetic Head of the private enterprise Teleradio Company “Region”. MICILI REDOVSKI to the Attorney General on the abuse of the position of officials in the Luhansk region. Dmitry HOLIDAY to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA, on the violation of legislation in the field of taxation and payment of labour by some commercial structures in the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv region. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI AND VICTOR ANTEMAK to the Attorney General on the verification of the conditions of the release of Taras Swede from office of the authorized criminal police in the affairs of the juvenile Righteous Police Department of the Chernigow City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. John VERNIDUBOVA and Jaroslav SOCIETY to the Attorney General on the use of administrative resources and on the involvement of the prosecutor of the Lenin district of Sevastopol in the electoral process. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA and Ludmila KIRIČENKO to the Attorney General on the criminal prosecution of a member of the Montenegrin City Council of Mikola Harabari for political reasons. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for the investigation into the deliberate destruction of the “Cribob” agro-firm of the Trieste district of the Suma region. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to prevent the execution of electoral agitation and to attempt to cause bodily harm to the agitator in Makiyyivka district of Donetsk. Aleksandra KEMENYASA to the Attorney General for violations of legislation during the privatization of land in the village of Zarecja, in the region of Zakarpat. VOJUŠA to the Attorney-General on political repression and pressure against officials and violations of legislation by officials of the BSS and the Attorney-General’s Office regarding Satsuk. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the abuse of office and violation of the rights of members of the Sambir Education Colony of the Lviv Region, the head of the institution. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General about the illegal export of a minor child from the town of Dnipropetrovska. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the violation of the rights of a second group disabled person in the investigation of an accident in the “OblTéploComunEnergo” stockholder company in Chernigovo. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice’s responsibility for failing to comply with the court’s decision. Valeria BORZOVA to the Attorney General for the non-payment of dividends to shareholders of the pharmaceutical company “Health” in Kharkiv. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General, Head of the Kiev District State Administration, for the violation of the right of citizens to land in the village of Nova Bezradiči of the Obuchi district. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General, acting as Justice Minister for failure to execute a court decision by the leadership of the Odessa Region Administration of Odessa. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General, Secretary of the RNB, for the provision of official information on issues considered at the National Security and Defence Council meeting on 8 February 2006, where there was further deterioration of Ukrainian-Russian relations. Vladimir W.W.A. to the Attorney General on the rental of rural cultural premises in the village of Radensk Tsurupin district of Herson. Jury DIDENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of State legislation and property rights during the creation of operators with the participation of the National Shareholder Holding Company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to prevent the execution of electoral agitation and bodily harm to the agitator in the town of Vujar Donetské region. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney General on the threat of loss of Ukraine's strategic gas transport system through the credit policy of the National Shareholder Company NaftoGaz Ukraine. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General of the Ministry of Justice for the formal treatment of the performance of its duties by the officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the administration of the Odessa District’s justice in the case of a road accident. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General about the violation of legislation and the falsification of election documents by the head of the territorial commission of the Dniprov district of Dniprožinska Davidova. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General for participating in the election campaign of persons involved in the falsification of the election of President of Ukraine in the Sumskie region. MIKOLI DARNIKA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs's duties to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation and to carry out hooligan activities by the activists of the constituency of the Natalia Vitrenco “National Opposition” block in the city of Hartzizk Donetsk. Mr. Mikhail Polanczych to the Attorney-General, acting Minister of Internal Affairs's duties to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation, to inflict bodily harm on citizens from the Party of the Region and to the constituency of the Natalia Vitrenko “National Opposition” block in Voroshilovsk district of Donetsk. HOMUTINICA and Vasil VOTAVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Supreme Court of Justice, on the decision of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region in the case of the “Novogrigorovsk” Society. Eugene HOURNIKA to the Attorney-General on illegal activity, the so-called ‘Donetsk Federal Republic’ public organization, and on the responsibility of its organizers for attempting to violate Ukraine's territorial integrity. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibility to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation and bodily harm to the agitator in the city of Avdivka Donetsk. MICILI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General on the prevention of the creation of another “building pyramids”. Mr. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Attorney-General, Head of the Supreme Court, on the non-admission of biased actions by the Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian district of Levkulić. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Holding Foundation, on the return to state ownership of the sports complex “Judinity” of the city of Bila Church. Sergey SLABENKA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs's duties to prevent the conduct of electoral agitation and the provocation of fighting by supporters of the Party of the Region and the constituency of the Natalia Vitrenco “National Opposition” block in the Kirov district of Donetsk. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney General regarding the hiding of 110 hectares of land from the “Bortnichi” ceremony of the former “Spytzykovsky” Radho. Anatolya CLIMINA to the Attorney-General, Head of the Board, for discontent with the investigation of harassment by officials of the North Regional Customs. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Economy’s duties regarding the emergency status of the Longevka High School in the village of Sosnica Chernigiv district. GEORGIA SCUDARA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy’s responsibility to place orders for the production of equipment for the storage of spent nuclear fuel in domestic machinery factories. Aleksandra ŠEVCHENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibilities regarding the inaction of internal affairs authorities in the search for the citizen of Zadrožna. Istwana HYDOSH to the Acting Minister of Agrarian Policy’s duty to decompose the land of the open shareholders’ association “Deer PlemZád “Zakarpatski” in the Zakarpatski district of Zakarpatsk. MIKOLI KOLIZNIK AND WOLodyMIR JANUARY to the Minister of Industrial Policy’s duties regarding the reasons for Sergey Grishchenk’s dismissal from the post of Deputy Minister. Paul MATWEIENKA to the Minister of Finance’s responsibilities in terms of the number of budget estimates for the city and inter-budget transfers for 2006 in Corstoyne. Alexander KYSELOVA to the Minister of Justice’s responsibility to bring judges of the Supreme Court of Agriculture, Shulga, Kozir and Semchuk to justice. Anatoly of the DOMANS to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the illegal actions of officials of the Ministry of Economic Crime of the Ministry of Public Administration of Ukraine. Vladimir MOJSIK to the Acting Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, the Acting Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Chief Justice of the Council of Judges for the violation of the interests of the State in the handling of lawsuits and the execution of court decisions in cases against the closed shareholder association “UkratNafta”. Mikhail DOBKINA to the Minister of Industrial Policy's responsibility for the formal and bureaucratic response, which does not correspond to the actual facts of the violation of the rule of law when the premises of the Proton Central Correctional Office in the city of Kharkiv, which belongs to the State in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Anton KISSE is responsible for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's task of expediting the adoption of the outstanding normative acts provided for in the Act on Principles for the Social Protection of Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. Georgia SCUDARA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison’s duties to ensure equal conditions for the development of all forms of property and to remove violations of the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Health’s responsibility for the health care of the rural population of the district of Chernigiv. Larissa VAZAČENKO to the Minister of Health’s duties to grant permission for the extension of the lease to a limited company called Agris Travel. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute the court’s decision to evict a business entity from the nonresidential premises of the Kharkiv State University of Art of Kotlarevski. Sergey ŽIZKA to the Minister of Defence’s duties regarding the inadmissibility of the construction of the Ternopil garrison’s residential and operating department. Alexander ABDULLIN was responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the incompleteness of the investigation, following the tragic death of Deputy Chief of the Vladimirsky District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the province of Rivensk, the police commander of the Bedik militia. FIXA to the Minister of Internal Affairs's responsibilities regarding the clarification of the statement of presence in the opposition bloc’s “NO YES!” list to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea. Mr. Stanislav STRABKA to the Minister of Transport’s duties, a link between changes in the shipping policy of Ukraine’s seaports. VICTOR DRAČEVSKI to perform the duties of the Ministry of Health for the collective appeal of the voters of the city of Nicopolis to improve the work of the family doctor’s infirmary and to provide for the services of doctors and nurses of general practice of family doctors. Teams of deputies to the Minister of Transport and Liaison’s duties regarding the allocation of funds for the completion of the reconstruction of the tour in the city of Dryzkowka Donetskey district. [[LECHENIA, COMAR, CORSACOV]] Larissa VACHENCO to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy’s responsibility to provide social protection, material support, and assistance to single mothers and many children. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE is responsible for the duties of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in providing information on the adoption of orphans by foreign citizens. Ms. Alexander LESHINSKI AND MIKOLI COMARA joined the Minister for Emergency and Population Protection in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in dealing with the consequences of the emergency in the Novomlin district hospital, Chernigiv district. Igor ŠURMI to the Minister of Education and Science’s duties regarding the violation of the rights to pay for teaching, teaching and other categories of workers at the National University of Chernobyl named Yuri Fedeković. TAMARY OF THE Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Health, head of the Kyrovograd District State Administration for the violation of environmental safety in the village of Capitanyvka. Mr. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the unlawful statement by the deputy head of Russia’s foreign political authority on the important stabilizing function allegedly performed by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, based on the territory of Ukraine. Anatoly of the Writer's Office to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the Treatment of Disabled Persons and the Group with Expressed Movemental Violations in the “Slovenian resort” sanatorium. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice’s responsibility to compensate for the moral and material damage caused by gang attacks on the family of the population of the Great Britain’s region of Poltava. Anatolya RACHANCIA to the Minister of Environmental Protection’s duties regarding the provision of quality drinking water to villages in Saxony and the Black Sea regions of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vasilla ADRAVIA to the Health Ministry’s responsibility to provide medical equipment to Luhansk City Hospital No. 7. Vladimir Paka to the Minister of Finance’s responsibility to assist KEC in Makarov-1, Kyiv. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to allocate funds for the disposal of the environmental disaster, which may result from the decommissioning of toxic - chemical containers in the village of the Kyiv Congregation. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges on the ground of baseless involvement in the administrative responsibility of an independent journalist and violations committed by police officers and the court of the Delhi district of Kiev. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Minister of Defense’s duties regarding housing problems and apartment security for military personnel released from reserve. Anatholics of the Writer’s Office to the Secretary of the RNBO, Head of the Board of Auditors, performer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ duties in connection with the groundless obstruction of the construction of a trading complex with a customs terminal in the village of Avantgard of the Odessa District of Odessa by the Ministry of Defence. A group of deputies to the Deputy Finance Minister of Kalnik’s duties regarding the amount of allocations from the State Budget to carry out the delegated powers of the city of Pritika in the Chernigiv region. [[ISAIAH, CORSACKOV, AND OTHERS]] Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government regarding the delay in gasification of buildings in the village of Right Winnicki district. LUKYANENKA’S Lion to the Head of the SBA for the threat of physical execution of a candidate in the Ukrainian National Deputies, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “Self-Governing Ukraine” Love of Stasov. Valeria ASADCHEVA to the Kiev City Head, Head of the Kiev State Administration for the Prohibition of Construction on the Prospect of the Truth. Ally ALEXANDROVSKA to the Head of the holdingmeine Foundation for the participation of minority shareholders in the management of the open stock company Turboat. MICHAEL GLADIA to the Head of the Herson District Council on the violation of legislation in the decision to reorganize the Holoprist Central District Pharmacy. Leonida KRAVČUKA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for housing for the Great Wargoers. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of Hmeljna District State Administration on the violation of the requirements of the Housing and Utilities Act, ignoring citizens' appeals regarding the unsatisfactory housing situation in Hmielnický A group of deputies to the Kiev City Head on the violation of property rights on land in the city of Kyiv. [[B. BONDARENCO, BLACK, PAC]] Mr Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Head of the Supreme Court on speeding up the examination of the complaints of the collective enterprise Vladimir Agroprombud. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Head of the holdmain Foundation on the misconduct of the management of the Open Shareholder Association “Herson cotton combination”. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Head of the State Main Foundation, the Attorney-General, for the disastrous state of the residential and communal agriculture of the village of Ozhenin, which came after the privatisation of the Ostróżki sugar plant in the Plain region. Jurya DIDENKA to the Head of the State Main Foundation for the protection of the interests of the State in the conduct of the additional release of shares of the State Shareholder Holding Company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Alexander KARENKA to the Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration on the violation of the requirements of the Housing and Utilities Act, ignoring citizens' appeals regarding the unsatisfactory housing situation in Selidové. VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to perform the duties of the Vinnick City Head in connection with the unprepared housing of the city before being handed over to the community by the coowners of the residence. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the DPA regarding the legality of the State Tax Inspectorate in the city of the Red Luhansk Region. Oleg TUGBOCA to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Involvement of the Electoral Block “No Yes!” for violating the legislation on advertising in connection with the use of foreign language in political advertising. [[Russian]] Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General about the critical situation in the area of security of the Kharkiv Housing Fund. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney-General on the critical situation in the Beregov region as a result of the introduction into Ukraine of the “Premix” substance and its export to Kharkivsk, Ivano-Frankiv region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the Procurator-General for the Procurator-General of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Dolin District Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd area of the investigation into the beating of the paramedic of the prompt medical assistance of the Ševčuk District Hospital of Svetlana Grigorovna and the closure of the State's criminal investigation into the DTP, in which her son, Shevčuk Igor Viktorovich, was killed. Mr Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Attorney General, on the elimination of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces and the establishment of a teaching institute in Lviv Lviv, the Institute of Land Forces, as part of the National University of Lviv Politechnics. Andrew School to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Golomshi on the facts of the criminal investigation on 9 March 2001. Thus, 166 requests were received from the national, national, and national deputies. “Regions of Ukraine” – 24, Ukrainian Communists – 30, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 14, People's Party – 7, Our Ukraine – 22, Ukraine's Socialist Party – 11, the People's bloc of Lithuania – 8, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party – 26, Ukraine's People's Party – 8, Ukraine's Industrial and Entrepreneurs Party – 1, Ukraine's People's Movement – 3, Ukraine's People's Movement – 3, Ukraine's Political Party “Reforms and Orders” – 4, non-fractional, non-fractional – 6. [[united]] Yeah, we're 43 minutes out. We're done with you, a. Yes, Bondarenko Grigory Ivanovich of the People. from the group “Lithuania’s People’s Block. ” Get ready, get ready for Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Gregory Bondarenko, “Litvina National Block”. This room has been emphasized hundreds of times: we donate little money to science. But they never asked: What is the sum of these expenses? How do we use many of our institutions, academic institutions? Things are bad here. Here are two examples. By winning the Telecommunications Institute’s tender and global information space, he created for the mayoral, district, and district governments a type of informational analysis system. Exploitation, they say, needs to be modernized. Notice, not to improve as usual, but to modernize. This was done for the sole purpose of relaunching the budget tender and winning its private firm Softline. And it was not necessary to modernize the system, as it was claimed, but one component of it was electronic documentation. And that's not all. The state has long paid for the work of ZAT “Softline”, a documentary company. They've already ordered, and it's doing great. A similar affair is now taking place with the creation of an electronic signature. In order to accomplish this task, Mintrancezuu has its own research institute, which is 180 scientists, 25 of which are doctors and candidates for science, the director's work, by the way, are printed in the United States. That ministry put this work on the dwarf enterprise Holding Information Resources, where four workers were released from the Institute. At the order of the minister, they are handed over 760 square feet [760 sq m] of institutional space, and the incontrovertible director is about to be dismissed and released. Next. It is clearly viewed as a manipulation to impose an unacceptable electronic signature to date, to charge large sums, usually budget, and to transfer them to private entities. It's not nice! One of them is said to have already been formed in the leadership of a prominent politician’s wife. To the named fields. Victor Bondar. In the first case he represents the government, now acting as minister. Bondar, a young businessman, said he was wearing a raspberry jacket and white socks. He's said to be a talented man. But talent is beneficial only when it serves a certain cause, or business, or state. Regarding both of my affairs, Kabmin’s letters were sent. Deaf! You can have something now. Please consider this presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u3	Nestor Schuffric, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u4	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow countrymen, unfortunately, today we are witnessing the harsh intervention of the National Council on Television and Radio-speaking Ukraine in the creative work of domestic television companies. In fact, the Nakrad is engaged in actions that are in direct contravention of Ukraine’s current legislation, primarily through the introduction of language censorship in Ukraine’s television area. The stumbling block in the relationship between the Nacrad and the national television companies is Ukraine's law to amend Ukraine's Television and Broadcasting Act, voted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2006. And recently despite the warnings of many TV channels and experts signed by Viktor Yushchenko. The Faction of the SDPU acted “against” this law, and the leader of the Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk faction approached Yushchenko with an open letter regarding his veto. We have argued and stated that it is this law that establishes a language censorship, an unlimited bureaucratic dictatorship of Nacrada, giving it the authority of a single public authority to regulate audiovisual media. A situation under which the State authority, namely the Nakrad, has the right to license the collection, production and dissemination of information contrary to the basic principles of freedom of speech. In many of its positions, the law contradicts both the Constitution of Ukraine and the international legal instruments ratified by Ukraine, such as the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Transborder Television of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. This is especially true of those positions that define language politics in the field of television and radio. It is known that for national channels, regardless of the form of ownership, a part of the airtime in Ukrainian is 75 percent of the total volume of speech requires channels to duplicate all films and radio broadcasts in the national language. Thus, the law brutally violates article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which defines free development and protection of Russian and minority languages. We state that the adoption of the Law is a step that distances Ukraine from European law and harms the international image of Ukraine. Moreover, the law of individual European countries assesses any regulation of the use of languages in private media as being contrary to human rights. The faction of SDPU (o) requires immediate identification of the legal status of the Russian language and the language of the national minorities in Ukraine through the adoption of Bill 6254, which brought together some 20 national deputies. The ten laws were united into one, understanding the urgency of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u5	From the faction “Ukraine” Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Prepare Vitalia Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u6	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukraine Party. Respectable fellow countrymen. I want to remind you about the social guarantees that the orange team promised on the stage and what it actually did. You remember you promised on the field that the minimum wage would be 100 percent equivalent to the minimum wage. Today, the subsistence minimum is 483 bracelets for 2006. The minimum wage is 350 dollars. And a minimum pension of 350 bucks. A person who works gets as much as a pensioner gets. But there will be an achievement, because in December, the authorities promised that the minimum wage would be 351 bracelets, which means they would rip one bracelet away from the minimum pension. Thus, by chance, the Ukrainian trade unions called the subsistence minimum 483 bracelets as a living minimum a fraud. Why? Because it's based on an old base, based on 2000. That is why all trade unions are being held in Kiev today. Basic requirements: The subsistence minimum should be 734 bracelets and the minimum wage above the subsistence minimum. Second requirement. The introduction of a single tariff grid for budget workers who promised an orange on the ground. Third requirement. To repay the debt already created by such actions of the new government — one and a half billion dollars. If this is not done, the trade unions promise the All-U.S. strike. The regional party supports the fair demands of the Ukrainian trade unions. And the second problem. The orange team says that it took a very important step, giving 8.5,000 at birth. As a result, I'm calling it a figure: they took $2 billion out of the Social Insurance Fund, 393 million, even though they promised to give 158 million out of the budget. Why did the government go into a state fund? The government has nothing to do with the funds that employers charge to employees as insurers. Thus, the government solved its problems at the expense of Socstrakh. What happened? What happens is that, according to Kirilenko's instructions, there will no longer be free of charge for heart attacks, for strokers; at Kirilenko's direction, there will now be no 10-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousal. So it was by no chance that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour examined the work of the foundation and the directorate, found it unsatisfactory, and asked about the discharge of Vice-Prime Minister Kirilenko as vice-premier. That's the bill we put in place. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u7	Yes. Vitali Ivanovich Majko gives the word to Paul Matthews, please. Prepare the Orestus Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u8	A statement by the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the political situation of the day before the election in connection with the inviolability of members of the local councils. Deputies! As it is known, on September 8, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Act No. 2854-4 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, under which a member of the local council cannot be brought to criminal liability, arrested or subjected to administrative entanglement measures imposed in court without consent. Yeah. The local council. The new law provides for a major complication of how to address the issue of bringing a local council member to criminal responsibility, which effectively spread parliamentary immunity to the local level. The party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs is concerned that the results of these legislative innovations are being sought by a number of questionable persons with a criminal background. According to law enforcement authorities, the election lists of the vast majority of the parties were hit by candidates who had previously been brought to criminal responsibility, had outstanding convictions, were under investigation, or were wanted for crimes. The faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs draws attention to the real threat of criminalization of regional authorities, when about three hundred thousand untouchables will soon receive parliamentary powers and will in fact be removed from the control of law enforcement authorities and released from criminal and administrative responsibility. The faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine reminds us that more than 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens do not accept parliamentary immunity and advocate its abolition. They want people to come to power who are honest and hard to solve the problems of citizens, not their own personal, all the more criminal. We call on voters and the public to get a good look at the biographies of those who are going to travel to all levels and the law enforcement authorities are going to provide information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Your last call will solve the problem. Let them see who's chosen. Orest Klimpus of the “Rebirth” faction. Prepare Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u10	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! In view of our appeal yesterday about the need to ratify the agreement with the European Bank, the faction of the Rebirth Party notes that with each year, the accounting of taxes and other compulsory payments is increasing. Over the course of four years, they've grown to 6 billion. In 2005, they grew threefold. On the one hand, however, the entire income is eliminated in the Cruise Station to the State budget, and on the other hand, the railway, the mobile warehouse and the railways are being used to the full. Regrettably, the Supreme Council did not allow the European Bank to borrow the reconstruction and development of the mobile warehouse and the construction of the railway tunnel, the acquisition of railway technology. The wearout, which is 25-30 years old, reached 70 percent. The railway reserves are exhausted. The write-off of each unit should be compensated by the acquisition of new technology. The minimum annual cost is 4.4 billion dollars. In total, it takes 12 billion dollars a year to do these jobs, and the railway can get only 5.8 billion dollars a year. The Rebirth Party notes that under the Rail Transport Act, financing of such programmes should be from the State Budget, but nothing has been allocated to rail transport for the past two years. The law doesn't work in this part. Crossroads only have to be counted on their investments. No less acute is the problem of energy saving by switching from diesel to electricity. Here, only with 300 million dollars can you get an annual economy of 1 billion $800. The Rebirth Party is of the view that it is extremely important to re-examine the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the allocation of funds for the implementation of the rapid movement of trains and the construction of the Beskid Tunnel, and the repayment of the loan will be made at the expense of its own funds. The negotiations on this loan were concluded in 2004 and, unfortunately, the agreement has not yet been ratified. The Rebirth Party's faction asks the entire MP Corps once again to return to this issue and to make a decision, to give the transport complex Ukraine a chance, to establish itself in the international transport system. Without a reliable transport complex, Ukraine cannot count on investment to come, but rather on the creation of new jobs. I'd like you to consider that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u11	Thank you. I think on the last day of the session we'll accept it. Let's keep this up until the election. Please, Kseniya Lapina, “Our Ukraine”. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! During the time that has passed, there have been many questions raised by small businesses in Ukraine and the answers that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can provide, since the answers are in the field of legislative settlement. The first issue that is urgently needed is the debt issue that arose in small business entities, single and fixed tax payers due to the fact that there was a conflict between the 2005 Act on Ukraine's State Budget 2005 adopted in early 2005 and the Act on Change in the Law on Ukraine's State Budget and other laws adopted in March 2005. This contradiction and the Colosseum created a situation where small business entities in the first quarter were owed a debt to the Pension Fund and the Social Insurance Fund, even though they fully fulfilled their obligations, paid a single tax, a portion of whom I was to account for social funds. However, this portion was not counted according to the law’s current quarter. Thus, small business subjects became victims in this colossal area. The only way to resolve this issue is by adopting the relevant law and cancelling the debt. I want to say that according to our estimates, about half a million entrepreneurs have gone into debt, and they are today turning to all political forces and asking for immediate action, otherwise by March 31st, by reporting, they get fined, to pay enough money as debt. In doing so, I want to emphasize that they have no such fault; they have fulfilled their obligations. The fault here is on the part of the legislators who allowed such a colossal act. The corresponding bill 8737, which corrects this conflict, corrects this debt, cancels this debt, which has been submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies from various factions, including me. However, despite the fact that there is a positive conclusion by the Committee on Finance and Banking and Scientific and Experimental Management, this bill has not yet been put into the agenda. In my opinion, the Supreme Council is now to concentrate its efforts on helpful drafts, and this bill is a top priority, because we are responsible to our voters, especially our mistakes with you. I also refer to this responsibility as the Single Social Tax Act, which has been on the Committees of the Supreme Council for several months now, and is actually being stopped by some individual people's deputies, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u13	Yes, it's from Victor Terrence's Faction. Prepare the Hare because John.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u14	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the agreement on the integration of the orange coalition must be signed before the elections, but in order for the reunification negotiations not to go indefinitely, our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, set an example and in a unilateral order signed an agreement to create an orange coalition and forwarded it to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, the first issue of the election block "Our Ukraine" by Yuri Yehanurov and the head of the Socialist Party, Alexander Moroz. I'm going to sound those principles and positions that make up the agreement of individuals, because we are absolutely against any treaty in the state being signed in secret and underground. Thus, the first point of the agreement is the requirement for the dismissal and punishment of those involved in corruption, as well as the requirement for the division of business and power. The agreement also states that members of the coalition in the new parliament will not join any alliances with those parties that oppose Ukraine's national interests and characterize the merger of political power with shadow capital, particularly coalition participants, will not enter into any agreement with the Janukovic Party of the Regions. One of the points of the agreement is the commitment to work together to prevent the construction of nuclear waste graves under Kiev and the denunciation of the gas “agreement”. The agreement also refers to the abolition of the inviolability of the deputies of the Supreme Council and the deputies of local councils. All must be equal before the law. It's all in the contract. There is only one, the previous distribution of posts. No one should share anything with the election. And only after the election will the political power that will win the most votes from other members of the orange coalition be entitled to the post of prime minister. This is the text of the covenant, and we want people to know about it. And if one of the members of the orange team doesn't do something, let him publicly say what point he doesn't make -- whether it's separating business from power, whether it's intact, or not allowing a nuclear grave under Kiev, or something else -- and he's going to offer his version. Yulia Tymoshenko's block hopes that all the orange team members will sign their signatures under the contract, especially since no item of the agreement has raised any objections during the negotiations. We hope that the agreement will be signed by the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of honest, democratic elections, and when we see today the advertisement “Don’t betray Maidan!” the signing of the agreement is just proof of the loyalty of orange Maidan. We are fully convinced that all the people who are on Ukraine’s way will have the joy and great hope of better meeting the long - awaited message of the unification of the orange team. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u15	Yes, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u16	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u17	Excuse me, Ivan Alexanderovich. To prepare Soboljevo seems. Yes, Sobolev? Bondarenko. Okay. Because it's here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u18	Statement by the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka notes that elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are taking place under conditions of unprecedented activation of anti - Ukrainian and anti - state forces. Their defeat in the Orange Revolution has shown a growing impact in the Ukrainian society of Ukrainian patriotic, national-conscious citizens, so the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are seen as their “last and decisive fight” for the destruction of the Ukrainian independent state. And they're no longer hiding it, but they're openly speaking against the Ukrainian language as a national against the European development vector of Ukraine, against everything that's Ukrainian. The anti-government branch and its active centre were the prokuchmian oligarchy-communist majority of the Supreme Council. The main task of the curators and communists is to destroy the foundations of the state system, to make anti-democratic changes to the Constitution, to not form the Constitutional Court, to keep the decision to join the EP, to destroy the economic balance of the state through the adoption of laws of an open populist nature, which are made consciously divided between the different categories of the population. This is not a complete arsenal of anti-government weapons. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka joins the demands of the Ukrainian public, which increasingly appeals to the authorities and to the President of Ukraine to stop and ban activities in Ukraine's anti-government, anti-Ukrainian forces. No country of developed democracy, and more Russia, would allow political forces and media to degrade and destroy their own country. And in Ukraine all of this happens from impunity: impunity for the Separatist Separatist Separatist Way, impunity for falsification of the President’s election, impunity for the theft of national property and land. Every democracy should be able to defend itself, otherwise adventure and authoritarianism will come back, and in a more criminal form. Conscious of all the dangers to Ukraine that follow during the election campaign for the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka calls for all Ukrainian forces to be assembled. We have to show the closeness of Ukrainian statehood and democracy the whole hopelessness of their attempts to stop Ukraine on its historic path to European civilisation, to the high welfare of citizens. Let our union be a holy day for Ukraine, March 9th, Taras Shevchenk's birthday. The great Cobzar unites us. Ukrainians, let's get together and we'll win! This is a statement by the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Please support her. And let us work together for our people, for the future of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u19	There's not much applause. Please, Bondarenko is a PRP. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, Party “Reforms and Orders” of Kiev. Today I'd like to say about the phenomenon that our entire society is struggling with today. The president announced the fight against corruption, and this is the right expression of the right slogan. Sadly, however, local officials are distorting all this activity and are doing absolutely nothing. On the contrary, corruption is growing with new and powerful advances. The most intense scandal today in Kiev is the so-called "investment Chernobyl", and I reiterate that corruption is at the root of this scandal. I'd like to go back a little bit earlier and show that corruption has absolutely no political face. It's amazing to both orange and white pigeons. For example, I would like to ask you today, from this rostrum of the Attorney General, the National Security and Defence Council and the President himself, please tell me where criminal case No. 503329 came from under article 364 of Part 2, which contains the name of the National Deputy Mikhail Zjiživnova, who has lost $600,000. The matter has been confused, and no one today understands: Where and how are all these things hidden, and why? This money disappeared through the “Christian” bank and the Baltic “Parex Bank” hid the case. Four cases were set up for another substitute for Omelchenka, Mr. Lisov. Unfortunately, he's on your list today. And you'll have to think about what to do with it. So today, once again, I emphasize the apolitical nature of corruption itself. I would like to point out that this year alone, the Kyiv City Administration transferred 35 apartments to the prosecution's office, 45 apartments to the BSB, the police received apartments, dozens of land areas, the prosecution's office. And I'm asking the National Security Council to study the roots of corruption. Why is everything in Kiev covered up today? Can we trade Kiev apartments, land, and cover for corrupters? One thing I want them to do is study the transcripts of the Kiyevrada meetings when the land was allocated to the Elite Center and its units. Who was lobbying? There, deputy Omelchenko stood up and rushed to the rostrum to betray the land. And he signed all the papers, as he says he didn't sign. We have to look at how much money went to the Arsenal Club, which is financed incomprehensibly for what, like the expensive Kiowa mayor's toy, for the city's Kiev money. I want to say that all of this is corruption. And that's why when we talk about what and who's investigating, the commission that was created by Omelchenko is similar to that commission that was referred to by Drzejinski: "If you want to cover any matter, create a commission." It was created by Omelchenko, of those involved in corruption, into this scandal and who organized and carried it out. I would like to say that today they are actively helping the Kyiv mayor and rector of the Kyiv Construction University, Mr. Tugai, who is pressing on all the other rectors today. And I want to say why: his structures that work in.. got four land plots in Kiev, and a lot of other facts. So long as we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u21	John Boki, socialists. Soccer. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u22	John Boki, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u23	Please restore John Sidorovich’s time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u24	John Boki, the Socialist faction. The Socialist faction believes that it is necessary once again to draw attention to two important problems that concern Ukrainian society. The first is that I announced yesterday a claim by the faction for compensation of one billion dollars from the Stabilization Fund -- compensation to peasants for the loss of crops of osmium, lost gardens, vineyards and so on. We believe that this is a matter that needs to be resolved by both Parliament and the government today, and we ask that we include this issue, and that the bill is put in place for discussion in the next plenary week. These costs are needed primarily for the restoration of dead crops, for the restoration of gardens, vineyards, berries, because in the coming years, Ukraine may run out of grain, fruit, and berries. And the second issue that concerns Ukrainian society today is the sugar problem. There's no secret that sugar prices have risen incredibly recently. In Chernigov, in one of the shops, Lovech was already selling sugar for the 7th anniversary of 70 copies per kilogram. This is already said to be the price of the madness to which it was to be made. The same thing is true, it's sold mostly from 4.80 to 5.50. And this is not the question of who the Minister of Agrarian Politics, as the representatives of the Party of Regions shout, is the issue in public policy. That is why we demand that the government raise this issue and that Parliament also consider the responsibility of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. There's no secret that today sugar is concentrated in the hands of nine major monopolistic companies, including some of which are headed by those who are sitting in this Chamber of Deputies. And in this way, there's probably a conspiracy to pre-election, as they say, to create a political situation in the state. As you know, the question of the responsibility of Kostusev, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, has been put into the agenda, but it needs not only to be registered, but also in the hall. And apparently next plenary week, this issue must also be resolved. Well, at the Agrarian Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers has until the end of February to buy the necessary amount of sugar to knock down the prices that Ukraine is dictated today, these monopolies who have captured today's production and the sale of sugar in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u25	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the People's Party faction, the People's Block of Lithuania, is also very concerned about the situation in the village today in the agro-industrial complex. In the village of Starovishnevetske Sinellni district of the Dnipropetrov region, for the first time since the Fascist occupation, there has been no sown in the autumn of any hectare of winter. Nearly 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of black land belonging to the community of this village are not sown. The spring doesn't change anything. And the tragedy of the steppe village is no exception. Today, not tens of thousands of hectares are being sown, but thousands of hectares are becoming diabolical. The reason is simple: peasants have nothing to go to the field with. Last summer, when a good crop was grown, the villagers were left with no money. For the first time in 15 years, grain production has become unfavourable. It's spring. The villagers were counting on loans to banks. In the budget, only 260 million were invested in interest compensation, which was enough to compensate for past years’ loans. Today the People's Party faction is not only critical, we have done everything we can to make an extra 4 billion dollars in the budget. We insisted that this money could be used in the most effective way. But it was completely different. The Minister’s office planned a budget schedule so that such funds could come at best only in December. But little has been done for two months to allow the village to receive the funds provided for in the same budget schedule. It happened that an official from the Ministry of Finance could decide the fate of the entire agro-industrial complex. We can't assume that today. We're not just criticizing today, we're proposing real ways out of this situation where the agro-industrial complex is in a situation where the village is in. First of all, we need to implement the State Budget, the budget that is adopted in this room. Secondly, we cannot agree with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers that denies the possibility of reviewing the budget before the elections. This may not be the case for some area when budget changes are made, but the village will not be able to wait until the end of March. Today, we insist that even one and a half billion dollars go to the village, and that money is in the budget. 540 million are budgeted, a billion, as has already been said, can be taken from the stabilisation fund. Today, we still have the opportunity to correct the situation, but it will be two weeks later. The faction of the People's Party of the People's Block of Lithuania today shares anxiety and sees a way out of this situation, the situation can still be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u27	Thank you. Yes, Viacheslav Koval conveys the word to Kendzier Jaroslav, please, from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement. Prepare Valeria Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u28	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine, block “Our Ukraine”. Honorable fellow national MPs, distinguished voters, have been around for six decades after the second arrival of the Soviet Communist authorities in Galicin, and up to this day there have been horrendous factors, horrifying images of Communist crimes. The remains of 278 people who were discovered back in 2002 in the basements of the Vassilian Monastery in Zovka will eventually be buried after numerous experts. Forensic and medical expertise was initially conducted in Lviv, but the closing word was said by Kiev experts. Think of it, out of 278 skeletons, 68 belong to children between 4 months and 14 years of age. The men who were digging up the remains spoke of a striking discovery, a bone of a woman and a child whose hands were deeply confused that they could not be separated. The excavations lasted three months, including students from Lviv Medical University and civil defense soldiers. Thus, three cells over three meters high and one narrow corridor were released from the bones. In the Lviv Historical and Educational Society Memorial, which also participated in excavations. They're saying that all these killings are on the right hand side of the NCCD units that came here at the end of the late 1940s. By the 46th year, the monastery was home to vassal monks who had been expelled and taken to Siberia. The NKVedists set up their local headquarters in Monastery, where members of the families of soldiers of the Ukrainian and rebel armies were tortured and killed, all of whom they felt were not loyal to the Soviet authorities. In 1990 the Church was returned to the Greek-Catholic community, but the clergy and the faithful for 12 years did not even know the secret to the temple. Soon, then, the memory of the victims of the Soviet executioners was finally duly honored by burying them in Zowkwa. In this regard, I would like to appeal to the Communist faction to make sure that they, led by Simonenko, come to the funerals of the victims who were their predecessors. Thank you. In addition, they used this trip for campaigning purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u29	Valérie Mishur has a word from the Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u30	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. I think you know very well that women and children surrounded by barbed wire have just been killed by fascists and bandits. Usually, the number of people who attribute themselves to patriots is greatly increasing before the elections. And then often, as Dostoyevsky warned, patriotism can become “a refuge for the Gentiles”. Today, one high-ranking official of our state, several times a day, on all television channels, orders us to think in Ukrainian, as if it were the first sign of patriotism. Like walking through the “blush” markets in search of antiquity, hanging houses with towels, or, say, the idea of wearing an embroidery, or the idea of living on this earth, forgive the word, “only purebred Ukrainians”. And it doesn't matter whether these Ukrainian patriots sell a combination, or air space, they prepare to trade land, or build nuclear landfills on it, or release foreign soldiers into the military ranges. The main thing is to think Ukrainian! Is that patriotism? All the colorful political chameleons from red to orange were presidents, prime ministers, vice-premiers, heads of administration. What? They've loaded the green pockets themselves, and the people's: garbage cans, garbage cans, which MP searchers only notice in commercials before the election. Is that patriotism? The Mercedes and the Maibahi, while the people were “cows” and “twices”, their own luxurious air-conditioned huts, frozen in the people, or barely warm batteries. During the 15-year period of power of the dollar patriots, two thirds of the economy was destroyed by beggars of three-quarters of Ukrainians, driven to the grave -- five million, pushed abroad -- seven million, and those who remained forced to become speculators who were cynically called the overseas brand of businessmen. Is that patriotism? True patriotism, and what have you done to benefit Ukraine and its people? Real patriotism is Ukraine in today's borders beyond what it never had for the communists, it's a sign of statehood, it's part of international organizations, it's the largest production in the history of our country -- for example: one ton of grain per capita, it's the most modern industries, the world's first computer, by the way, it's electronics, and so on, it's the atomic stations that the patriots have disgraced yesterday, and today it's seen as the basis of our independent energy. And all of this was done under the direction of the Communists. We have long and honestly said that not everything has been done well, not everything, let's say, we were able to stand back, protect, but the main thing is that the Communists have always been patriots of Ukraine and they remain that way today, and all the laborers of Ukrainian land who have loved and defended this land know that very well and will vote for eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u31	Yes. We've got another procedure left, that's dissatisfaction with the answer to the questions. Yes, please, the word has the national deputy Solomonine, you have guessed, to prepare the Pack.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear compatriots! My question was about the failure of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the Henprosecutorate of Ukraine to explain the report of the Henprosecutor's press office of December 8 on the poisoning of President Yushchenk of Ukraine, which stated literally that the results of the toxicology studies, the blood samples of President Viktor Yushchenk in the laboratories of foreign states indicate the presence of dioxin in his body. The number of dioxins exceeds a thousand times the acceptable concentration. So on December 9, I applied to the Henprocurator’s Office and to the Ministry of Health separately, asking for clarification on such simple, indiscreet questions. First. Who, when and on what basis, has established and approved an acceptable concentration of dioxin in the human body, particularly in the blood. And secondly, how much is allowed to concentrate in the body, especially in the blood. And how many times, one thousand, or five, or ten times the number of dioxins in the patient’s blood exceeds the acceptable concentration? Finally, the Health Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers confirmed that the Henprocurator's press service, in their report on the President's poisoning, had been able to falsify medical data openly in comparison to the level of blood pollution in a patient with a non-existent allowable concentration, which was deliberately invented by irresponsible counterfeiters and inducers in white robes, who are citizens of foreign countries. The mechanism of such deceitful deception of the world and of ours, the native community, is very simple. Some carefully hidden, even natural, microdioxins in the blood of a patient should be divided into an imaginary, even zero-permissible concentration. Let's think about the arithmetic. What's one divided by zero? Infinite. Hence, there have been false reports of excess levels of dioxin in the patient’s blood samples thousands of times. What does the Henprocurator’s Office say twice? “The questions that you have referred to in the parliamentary inquiry have been put to the decision by the expert in the commission and judicial medical expertise conducted by the experts of the Chief Bureau of Medical Forensics of the Ministry of Health.” The circle's closed. Foreign forgers and provocateurs in white robes are already breaking down and the Attorney General's Office along with the Chief Bureau of Medical and Forensic Affairs of the Ministry of Health. Shame! And that's the question. I think the thing about poisoning is that it's been sewn up with white threads from the beginning. So I demand that the Henprosecutory Office of Ukraine publish immediately the results of the analysis on the contents of the dioxin in Yushchenk's blood. Please consider this as a re-deputy request for the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u33	Dissatisfaction. Dissatisfaction. I'm not your secretary. Yes, please. Vladimir Park is dissatisfied with the answer, please. Vladimir Park, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. During the past year, as Ukrainian national deputy, I have repeatedly addressed the law enforcement structures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and directly to Mr. Lucenka in connection with illegal acts and the inaction of internal affairs bodies. It was hoped that with the coming of a new power, the law enforcement authorities would begin to carry out their duties under valid legislation. Regrettably, these hopes have not been fulfilled, and this is evidenced by the following. On 13.10.2005, I appealed to the Minister of Internal Affairs for improper criminal investigation into the capture of the administrative building of the Kyiv Regional Society, with active support from the militia. During the period of time, some 100 workers of the organization were hostages of criminals who were known to investigate from the very beginning. The answer to my request to the minister came in 01.11.2005 at the signature of the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. It doesn't indicate any reaction to my parliamentary appeal. In response, I was assured of the following. I quote. “As a result of further investigation, a legal decision will be taken in the shortest possible time.” This term has been six months. While the fact that the public building is being captured is still 25 more. The year 12 - 2002. The absence of a result in the investigation of this criminal case is linked to the involvement of police officers in this crime. Nor was there a proper response to events related to my appeal to the illegal inaction of the Tarastian and Makarov militias in the Kyiv region. In addition, I had three conversations with the Minister of Internal Affairs about the above - mentioned facts, but my appeals were directed to inspect those departments whose improper activity was the basis for the appeal. Undoubtedly, according to the law, the Rokettnian region’s militia acted in January this year when the head of the district’s internal affairs body unceremoniously intervened in civil and legal relations, withdrawing the protection of the legitimate owner of the Rockettnian market, prevented him from allowing the object, thus denying him the right to do business. The actions taken by law enforcement officials are of great harm to consumer cooperatives. In this case, it is evident that a violation of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine was in breach of the provision of part two of the Constitution, since the police were, of course, not acting in the manner prescribed by law and went beyond the limits defined by law. In spite of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Instead of 45 minutes, we spent an hour of 33 minutes. So, as we agree with you, we will work without interruption. Let's move on to the agenda of the Supreme Council. A draft Ukrainian Housing Code, registration number 8438, is under consideration. Reports Valery Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, author of the legislative initiative. The committee's gonna be Reznick. Yes, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, last July, you and I adopted the new Ukrainian Housing Codex, which took into account some 600 of your comments. But the President of Ukraine vetoed, although 27 out of 31 comments by the President, including all the principles of observation, were taken into account. The new codex was not supported in the session hall. Nor was the President’s proposal to reject the adoption of the Housing Code. There is no convincing explanation for this. Today, everyone is well aware that Ukraine has been rejected for at least two or three years in the implementation of housing reform. And today cards are distributed before the Supreme Council, which has three principal positions that will not be owned for housing, which will be mandatory. There is no constitutional right unforeseeable; it is provided for in this Housing Code. I think it's also an appropriate provocation to overthrow our citizens' housing systems in Ukraine. And that's a very serious problem. After all, there is virtually no new housing for our citizens who are in housing, and I remind them that there are about one and a half million families. While the average annual housing supply is only one and a half percent. They cannot have housing for disabled persons and veterans of the Great Homeland War, children with disabilities, children with disabilities, Chernobyl, military personnel, and young families and socially vulnerable categories of citizens. A convincing testimony to the absence of a clear modern legislative base in the housing sector is the situation in the housing market. I mean the situation around the activities of the investment group Elita Centre and other companies. What does the press do? What's the press talking about? And they're working on similar fraud schemes. There was also a delegation from the city of Odessa who had come. They are also concerned that there may be such fraudulent schemes in the city of Odessa and in other regions of Ukraine. So, unfortunately, again, I have to say that Ukraine still lives under the 1983 Housing Code, which is full of outdated standards that cannot meet the need for modern development and solve one of the most acute social problems -- providing our citizens with modern and safe housing. A basic document for the implementation of housing reform should be the new Housing Code of Ukraine, aimed at creating an appropriate modern legal basis for ensuring the realization of the right of citizens to housing. A group of national deputies, members of our committee, have introduced a new edition, but we are all well aware of the draft Ukrainian Housing Code. I remind you that the bill defines the legal, organizational and socio-economic principles of state policy in housing. Established legal relations regarding the creation, exercise and termination of property rights for housing. The draft Housing Code provides extra housing for the disabled and veterans of the Great Homeland War, children with disabilities and children of orphans who are illegally convicted and later rehabilitated and others. Provision is made for the provision of shelter for military personnel, black people, police personnel, young families, rural teachers, rural doctors and other categories of citizens whose rights are defined by valid legislation. The first articles of the draft code have already determined that no one can be forcibly evicted from his home other than on the basis of the Law by decision of the court. The bill deals with the calculation of citizens who need to improve housing conditions, realize the rights and responsibilities of homeowners and homeowners, provide for the formation, use, maintenance and maintenance of the housing fund, preserve and preserve the housing that is in state and municipal property, and others. Dear colleagues, you remember that in the accepted code, the problem of social housing was devoted to the whole chapter. Today, after the adoption of the Housing Fund Act, a social assignment, all we have to do is technically make appropriate changes to the draft Housing Code regarding compliance with this social housing law, and we have prepared these documents just before we passed the Social Housing Fund Act. And taking into account the above and the principle of such principled comments to the bill is the proposal for national MPs to adopt the Housing Code in the first reading. But I could also suggest in general, because we actually took into account the President's comments that were made to him at the time, in the promise of the Housing Code. But there's a lot of comments, I mean, it's, first of all, science and expertise. Well, I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u38	Not so many of these comments in the Housing Code, but more to some extent before the development of regulations that would result from the Housing Code. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading. And if there are no comments in the hall and there will be people’s deputies in favor, it can be accepted as a whole. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u39	Thank you. Will there be questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Valery Pavlovich, I can testify in this session hall for all of Ukraine to the enormous, intense work that your committee has done on the Housing Codex. I can remind everyone how many consultations have been held with international experts. I can say that this Housing Code has brought about the greatest achievements of Europe's latest social development. And the fact that the new orange power, led by some leaders, has led us to believe that this Housing Code today has forced us to start at first, tells us that this authority has never realized that there is a new time on the street and that market transformations require an adequate response from us. Please tell Valeriy Pavlovich what has changed, is there anything fundamentally different in this new edition that we have to start at first, from the one that, for reasons that are not clear to me, was promised by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u41	I thank you for asking. First. We've even removed the question of forced displacement. We've introduced the thesis on the reconstruction of microregions, once again with the consent of the citizens, and there will be no forced displacement. And we've taken into account all of the President's proposals, first of all, which he's motivated by the veto at the time, so we've passed them the Social Housing Fund Act and at the same time, and, in fact, all of these observations are taken into account so that there's no tension. And he, just like every piece of legislation we take, has a lot of questions to ask him. We won't take it. Other Well, the main thing is to create a system of housing security for citizens, which the state should assume the responsibility to control the realisation of housing policies in our country. This is set out in this law, unfortunately, not in the state today, not in the government at all, but in local councils. Today, the housing code provides absolutely everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u42	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u43	Dear Valérie Pavlovich, I wanted to ask you, I don't understand. According to the Code, we keep saying: social housing, security for veterans, disabled people who have been in line for almost 14 years. You realize that today it's all about sharing what we have. Here's what we built in the Soviet days of the apartment, we share, we share. I don't find the answer in the code: How can we build this apartment? This is a small town, which is where it can build housing for these people. Do we expect someone to die and someone else to die? Then I don’t understand why this codex allows for the housing that was built in Soviet times. Now there's nothing to fix the roof in the usual place, even if you have the money. This has to be made up. Some of the building’s capital repairs to get a piece of cash in there, and all the roofs run, the pipes rustled. And in this code, first you have to, and where do you get the money for that? I just don't know where to get the money. We all raise our hands for being able to give a veteran an apartment or a socially defenseless one, but for what? A completely naked budget, it's completely out of the question for housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u44	I thank you for asking, I understand what you meant. I could ask Adam Ivanovich to give me 30 minutes to answer that question. I can tell you right now that the authorities, as my colleague, Deputy Suhi, said, have specifically overturned the Housing Code and have not voted in favour of the Social Housing Fund, that we were no longer in the 2006 budget for housing allocations and construction for those in turn, I counted the categories. For social housing and for all of our citizens, it's for the teacher, the doctor, the budget staff. And never will our state develop at all, nor will the capital repairs be done until we start planning: there will be private investors, and the state should be concerned, and the social housing law we have passed this year. Oh, it's not planned. And I suppose. The committee's proposal was that the budget for this year already had construction costs for these categories. And here's the thing: Once we don't plan the money, the summation of the work of the people's agriculture in the construction sector in January of the month -- the drop of 10%. And we're not going to plan -- there's not going to be anything -- there's not going to be any indicators, there's not going to be any wages, there's not going to be any credit to the pension fund. And how will we live? Where is the gross domestic product? That's why the state has to deal with it. And that includes a working system for screwdrivers: one and a half million men in line today, four hundred thousand of them. We don't have housing at all, and today it's the duty of the state to plan. And we're not going to adopt the code, and we're not going to have any of these costs next year, in 2007. Therefore, in the 2006 budget review, it will have to be reviewed because of gas prices. And prices are going to go up, and then they're going to say, and the budget is going to be much higher. Of course it's going to be bigger because it's going to grow. That's the situation. So I would ask the faction of the Communists personally because you have not voted twice to support the Housing Code this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u45	I think the third time they'll do the same. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u46	Valeriy Pavlović, when we considered the Housing Code before that, there were many problems, including, and I raised what mechanisms were in place to protect the rights and interests of the population in terms of obtaining quality services. Because we have people paying for broken heat, non-light, unrepaired driveways. So when we discussed this topic on the Lithuanian People's bloc faction, my colleagues asked me as a person who asked you as the author to comment on how people's interests would be protected in the event of poor housing and utility services or their failure at all, because they would be recalculated to get, well, it could be insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u47	Okay. I thank you for your questions, too, but I can tell you that the Supreme Council Committee, with your approval, has created a full legislative base for the development and work of housing and utilities. Regrettably, these laws are not enforced in both the center and the place. It's a law on a state-wide reform programme for the LHC, on development. Ukraine, the national deputy of Hinsburg, was setting up a program to be small cities. It is at the expense of this program, where public funding is to be made, that small cities of Ukraine, the heat supply, the integration of coowners of houses, the water supply, and these laws solve this complex of problems, including the provision of high - quality utilities. And including the law called “On the Order of Provision of Housing Services”, which signes an agreement between the utility manufacturer and those who consume, is with us, citizens who eat these services. They're reflected. In the Housing Code it is only written in detail, and they are in these laws. Therefore, nothing needs to be done but to carry out the legislative base that we have accepted for this four - year term in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u50	Yes, let's begin the discussion. Let's start the discussion. Let's take 20 minutes. Sergey Zizko. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u51	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I would like to make some remarks in the context of this bill's discussion on one of the most pressing social problems, the housing problems of our fellow citizens. This problem is rooted in far-reaching Soviet times, and in the 1990s, it's gotten more acute, but now there's good reason for an accelerated solution to the housing problem. Our efforts must be aimed at eliminating the concept of the “hothouse line” within the shortest timeframe. The adoption of the Housing Code alone does not solve the problem. First of all, I think we should put the basic order in the primary housing market. They cannot afford an apartment in Kiev more than in Prague, Berlin, or Warsaw. The state has every opportunity to limit the profitability of the construction industry to 20 percent by deliberate and sequential measures, and to stop apartment speculation, let alone outright fraud. We need to provide preconditions for short-term housing, and given our demographic situation, it is primarily up to young people to acquire their own housing at childbearing age. So I think the concept of the Housing Code should set standards for all working citizens under the age of 35 to have real and unconditional low-interest housing loans. For those middle - aged and elderly who are unable to rely on credit, the expectations of improving housing conditions must be primarily linked to the reconstruction of an outdated housing fund in accordance with the law recently approved by the Supreme Council. The housing of military personnel and their families is also regulated by separate legislative regulations. This problem may generally be solved in a rather tight term if it is ensured that there is a clear adherence to the rule of law and the elimination of abuses and the increase in budgetary funding that is already foreseen for this year. Finally, the problems of the category of citizens in need of social housing are also regulated by the applicable law. Thus, in the Housing Code, all listed groups of people who need to improve their living conditions should be divided. So I don't see any reason to talk about a single queue for all together, and even more about priority or bias in the right to get housing, as is done in the relevant articles of the project. Because where there is primacy or extraordinaryness, there must be a reason for abuse. There are also questions about housing problems, chapters 8, 10, 11 of the project. So I suggest you send a bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, please, the constituency of Yuri Carmazin. I'd love to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, as rightly pointed out, “The Jury of Carmazin. ” Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly disagree with what has now been said. That's the position that we have today in the housing situation, and in that position, we have what's happening in Kiev right now. Because of the blockage of the adoption of the Housing Code, the normal Housing Code. And I'll start at the end, I'll have to adopt this Housing Code in the first and second readings. There's already all the notes taken into account, even sucked out of their fingers by those apologists with the thought that I've just heard. With regard to rising prices in the capital, the removal of the speculative and corrupt loads that now exist in Kiev will disappear when Yuri Karmazin is elected as the city’s head. They're going to disappear because we're going to do the housing inventory, because the housing isn't going to cost more than 2,000, 3,000. 200 grand. It's a square meter. Ladies and gentlemen, when I returned from Donetsk, where my grandfather was buried in Dmitrovo, I want to say that we were talking about Alchevsk, about the difficult situations that emerge from the Housing Code, absolutely no one in the state said, but what happens in Donetsk. In Snow 41, a multi-story residential building doesn't burn at all, in Selidovo there is no fire to 56 multi-story buildings, in 12 there is no water supply at all. Since 1992, there has been no gas in the city of Górnik, since 1996 there has been a centralized heat supply of 168 residential buildings, six of which have been burned. In Ukraine out of 176 housing units, only partially, seven burns. Without the heat of the city’s hospital, the children’s hospital is also not burned in Selidovo. Ladies and gentlemen, in Makiyevka, there are three multi-story dwellings, and now everything is going to freeze because it's going to be warm. What's the governor doing there? I am addressing the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. The governor of the Donetskina must be released immediately! He didn't do anything, he didn't do anything, he couldn't do anything. Honorable National MPs. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, instead of solving these problems, the so-called “Donetsk Republic” is being created and there are such things that sound, I quote: “We will free the great Donbass from the occupation of shoddy, Protestant scum, traitors of diverse fat” and so on. Criminal cases need to be investigated. Mr. Medvedzko, you used to work there, please state the order. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u54	Thank you. But you seem to be traveling to the mayor in Donetsk. Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u55	Vasily Ivanovich Nadraga, Litvina People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Housing Code that we live by today is a document that was passed in 1983. Over the past twenty-three years, more than just housing has changed dramatically. Our lives have changed, principles have changed, and unfortunately problems have changed. Based on that logic, where did we come from? We have come to the point that today we can boldly and unequivocally say that the housing conditions in which the absolute majority of our citizens live do not correspond to the basics of a civilized country. Because, as our citizens live, the quality of the services they receive gives rise to genuine misunderstandings and disagreements with approaches. Therefore, I would not agree with the chairman of the committee who has reported here and answered my question that we have a legislative framework whereby housing services should be paid only in the amount in which they have received and more, I think, already in my opinion, to pay for the loss or loss at all. Why do I disagree with the rapporteur? Because that's what the laws say, but if it doesn't work, that's not what the laws say. So there is a problem for the executive to comply with these laws. But there is also a problem with the laws themselves. And I think that today, when we say that we support this Housing Code, we support it in our first reading. We must understand, however, that it should separately and very carefully address issues related to the liability of financial, legal and criminal, when people do not receive services. Because today it is impossible to recalculate for the heat that has been lost, for the water that has been turned off on schedules at the home level. The chiefs can do something, and a private, simple citizen can do something to get him to J.E.K. to be recalculated that he didn't get the heat in winter, that he didn't get the water, but it's utopia. Let us not live with illusions and hope that in our world the laws that exist today can clearly work. Therefore, once again, we are the factions of the People's bloc of Lithuania when we discussed this issue, and we said: “We support this code only on first reading. We believe that second reading should not be declared, but should be specifically described as a measure of responsibility for those who must provide utilities and a measure of responsibility if they do not.” Last. I'd like to say, including a respected colleague who's trying to help me, I haven't told you about the Donetsk Republic -- I'll tell you about another one. Six months ago, I said that the practice of building housing in Kiev would end in conflict, and we had received the Elite Centre. Unfortunately, no one has changed anything. And this
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u56	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Please prepare Sergey Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u57	The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In accordance with the Constitution, everyone has the right to housing. I am pleased to say that today's Constitution, unfortunately, only declares this right in contrast with the Constitution of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which not only guaranteed it, but also guaranteed it the right to housing. There is no doubt about the need to adopt a new Housing Code that meets the current conditions for society’s development. However, the bill proposed to us today is essentially no different from the previous version of the Housing Code, at least on a number of fundamental issues on which the veto has been vetoed and which, last October, the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealed as one that is contrary to the Constitution, a series of laws of Ukraine, violates the fundamental rights of citizens and is in general conceptually unacceptable. And I'm also surprised at the persistence that they're trying to push this version of the Housing Code once again. The project presented does not even correct the main errors of the project that were previously available. He once again contradicts several articles of the Constitution, the Civil Code, other laws of Ukraine. It does not protect the constitutional rights of citizens to housing, the integrity of property rights. This is shown in detail in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The conclusion states that articles 13, 19, 30, 41, 47, 71, 67 of the Constitution are in violation of more than a dozen articles of the Civil Code, other laws. Each of these articles usually contradicts the position of the present document. And this is what we have after a few amendments and a few revisions to this law. In addition, this version of the Code has significant legal flaws. So the point is that we are dealing again with the imperfect document that is being proposed to us today as the Housing Codex in our country. And to conclude, I would like to refer to the drafter of the bill, one of the drafters who, in introducing the bill, expressed regret that Ukraine is now living under the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. I would like to say that, unlike the project presented, the Ukrainian Codex of Housing of the Soviet Socialist Republic dealt with the problem of housing. All the other options, including the one presented today, are addressing another challenge: how to take out people's housing. That's the difference. The Communist faction does not support this version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u58	Sergei Matvienkov, Socialist faction. Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u59	Matweenkov, 55th District, Mariupol, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I'll ask everyone to calm down. We are indeed considering one of the sickest topics today. Life's long gone. And unfortunately, we have legislation left at a level at which, well, serious amendments are required. And today we are really looking at one of the most painful problems. The problem of housing. We've had a long time with situations where apartments turn into stores, apartments turn into offices. And for the normal lives of people, all infrastructure is being completely disrupted. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed to situations where, on the one hand, laden basements, current roofs, cold housing, and on the other hand, this is an increase in the systematic rent at which a person does not understand what he should pay specifically for. But I want to focus on the proposed bill. Today, much has been said about him, both on the one hand and on the other. But I think they speak more from a political point of view than from what it says. I'd like to tell those who are talking today about what needs to be accepted and moving forward, what's all written there, to remember one thing. What is behind every line of this bill, this code, every comma of this code has specific people and sometimes not the most highly paid, and sometimes not the most secure. You tell me, please, an 87 article that provides for a penny each percentage of the non-payment, so to speak, for failure to pay public payments in a timely manner. You answer me. Have either of you ever gone to the JAC and tried not to get any specific services? If you've been walking, you'll tell that long and long story that ends in absolutely nothing. By the nature of the officials. Article 10, which states that the transfer of the dwelling from the non-resident to the non-resident, is once again paid to the clerk. Not the opinion, so to speak, of the tenants who are next door, they determine whether there will be a dental office or there will be some kind of a doctor or not, or whether there will be people living there. And the 115th article, from which I suppose I did not understand, could they be evicting a person from his home today if he did not pay the utilities on time? Or how will this article work? “Eviction” is a separate line. Today we must remember one thing that we have a tremendous number of people who do not have a roof over their heads. End of contract. It is clearly not regulated, it is not described how to be those people who do not have conditions. And the soldiers who have served our Family in good faith for 25 years today find themselves in such a condition that if they live in a closed city, where do they go, how do they deal with these problems? What about the dorms? If a person went to work and then, under some circumstances, he found himself behind the alterations, so to speak, this business, without a roof over its head, where would he go? We really need to adopt a law that is time-appropriate today, but we need to remember one thing that is time-consuming to-day sharing people like those who care about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u60	Victor Taran. Prepare Georgie Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u61	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! I would like to continue with the opinion expressed here by the honourable MP Zizko. That's a very simple thought. The adoption of the Housing Code itself cannot solve the housing problem in the country. This should be a broad government program. And I'm going to remind you that there were three priorities in the government of Tymoshenko for the economic development of the state, namely the development of the agricultural sector; the second is the construction of roads, because Ukraine is an agrarian state and the third is the construction of housing. It's lending housing to young families, it's remodeling, it's called cartilage, it's reducing the cost of housing by involving alternative construction companies. And what, there was no money? It was expensive because the income part of the budget increased by 75 percent, but the housing program ended with the resignation of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And that's true. It's not an agitation, it's a fact that everyone knows. But nevertheless, the Housing Code should really be adopted, because the valid Housing Code was adopted in June 1983, and it is clear that its position does not fit the current socio-economic conditions. Unfortunately, however, this project requires substantial work. Specifically. A list of the reasons why a project is allowed to remove housing from the community is too extensive. Since, according to the current Constitution, all property subjects are equal before the law, they cannot be regarded as socially needed removals, I emphasize, private housing for the construction of buildings, buildings, and other production facilities of state and municipal property rights. [[Article 13]] It has to be pointed out that the project needs substantial development from a legal point of view. It requires optimization and with regard to the structure of the legislation, i.e. there are cases where the names of the draft articles do not correspond to the content of social relations. To emphasize, the title of the draft articles does not correspond to the content of social relations regulated by an article. The project is also overcrowded by a large number of blending standards, which are sent to a large extent, not to acts of current legislation, but to legislation that is yet to be adopted. And so according to the faction of our bill, we need to re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u62	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u63	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues, our faction notes that the adoption of the modern Housing Code meets the requirements of the present moment. This will allow the right conditions for Ukrainian citizens to exercise their constitutional right to housing. [[Article 47 of the Constitution]] Unlike the current Housing Code, the project contains a provision for a social purpose housing fund, an arrangement for housing in a general purpose fund, ownership, management, private housing, the arrangement for the provision and use of housing in a special purpose housing fund, the form of housing property provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, the possibility of lending construction or the acquisition of housing. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Block, our faction notes that we cannot preserve the current imperfect housing system in this document. Recently, parliamentary hearings were held on housing for military personnel, their families, on housing for those military personnel currently in stock, on housing for law enforcement personnel. If we don't respond to those parliamentary hearings on this issue and we don't take them into account in the draft Housing Code, we're going to preserve this painful problem for years to come. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka thinks that this is unacceptable, so we cannot accept a document that has significant positive effects compared to the current document, but it does not solve many of the pressing problems that arise from the demands of the current moment on the real economic and social development of Ukraine. For example, in article 1 of the draft Code, Ukrainian citizens are provided with housing by means of, among other things, the creation of conditions for obtaining loans for the construction or acquisition of housing by citizens who are in charge. Yet, the state must create conditions under which every citizen, not just the one in charge, can improve his living conditions. There is no defined standard for the total housing area, which should be set directly in the Ukrainian Housing Code, rather than sent to other legal acts. Part 1 of article 23 of the project provides that the legal, economic, social, and organizational principles governing the reconstruction of neighborhoods, microregions, residential buildings are regulated by a separate law. As a result of constitutional guarantees, housing owners must be established in the Housing Code for the reconstruction of neighborhoods, microregions, and residential buildings. [[Article 41]] Based on these observations and many others who do not have time to express themselves now, the faction of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush thinks that this document needs substantial work and it would be logical to send it back for a second first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u64	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I listened very carefully to the presentations by members of the MPs and factions and thank you for your suggestions. But I am surprised at the first question that we do not want to fully understand that, first of all, this document gives the right and obliges the State to plan budget allocations, first of all, to live with those citizens who, according to current legislation today, have the right to receive this residence in turn. That's the first one. And we made the right list. The second question is, is there a Supreme Council decree that has given us, once again, the people's deputies, a draft law? And I'm surprised, too. I said I was surprised to be pushing a document. I'm used to working, doing a particular thing, especially since the Communist factions are three on this committee. And they made, and they also made decisions about whether or not to support this document. This is true of “Our Ukraine” too. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to put it to the vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Thank you. Valeriy Pavlovich, even though you are asking or not asking, I am obliged to put the draft to a vote. The draft Housing Code is closed. I put it to a vote: to accept it as a basis for the first reading. Bill number 8438. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:12:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" – 35, Communists – 0, People's Party – 33, Block Timoshenko – 11, "Our Ukraine" – 1, Socialists – 0, "National Block of Lithuania" – 20, Social Democrats – 8, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, "Rebirth" – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 8, "Reforms and Order" – 0, "Afterfraction" – 7. That's how. Dear colleagues, there's no time at first, because we have only five days left to work with you. So the new session will be -- and the new vocation will come back to that question. Let us consider the questions. Rereading the first reading. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine registration number 8035d. Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich, author of the legislative initiative, please. Sergey Burjak, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on card risks. This is due to the fact that a bill adopted five years ago on payment systems, when the number of plastic cards in Ukraine reached 2 million, now reaching more than 25 million. Because of objective circumstances, he could not account for the risks associated with objective premeditations of the process. To deal with security-related credit card transactions, this document proposes to focus on and reject the normative instruments recommended by world payment systems, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which address and address the problem of bank use of information protection tools in ATMs and commercial terminals. The introduction in Ukraine of a level playing field and the development of payment systems, increased requirements for the prevention of counterfeit operations, or stolen cards, and the cessation of the illegal use of ATM cards and payment terminals. The amendment to article 300 of the Criminal Code, which is consistent with the particular social danger and insolence of card crimes, proposes sanctions for this crime, similar to sanctions for counterfeiting and the use of counterfeit money. The listed measures aimed at protecting the rights and interests of customers guarantee the inviolability of client assets against criminal offenses. As has already been said, the bill is discussed in a reopened first reading, four weeks after its first consideration, all the comments that were made, in practice, were introduced, taken into account and made, in practice, by the legislative initiatives and all the interested parties who made comments to the bill, including the agreement of the position of the bill with the head of the Carmazin Block himself, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. I think today, given this situation, we have every reason to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u68	Yes, are there any questions? You don't? Okay, thank you, have a seat, please. Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, the rational grain of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u69	I'd love to. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! As has already been said, this and this bill are aimed at improving the business of payment systems in Ukraine. For example, in the last year alone, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has detained more than a hundred people who have committed card crimes. These are tens and hundreds of millions of dollars that criminals have tried to steal from our citizens in Ukraine. Thus, some changes are made to the Criminal Code. This is an example. The bill, first of all, provides for the acquisition and use of credit and credit cards. Help: It is possible to obtain credit cards with deferred payments of interest or to pay interest on certain conditions. Second, state control is being established over businesses that accept payment cards. Helpful: This is a hundred untaxed income for not using a merchant's payment terminal to enable citizens to apply these payment cards. Third, wages are offered through current and card bills. This standard provides for a period of introduction from 1 January of the following year for persons who are not interested, who write a statement, and who continue to receive a salary in the company’s register. As you can see, the committee's bill has been fully elaborated on the results of the work, and all the issues have been agreed upon. I remind you, this is the first reading, so the committee is proposing to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Yes, no one insists on discussing it? They insist. Well, then, please, Solomon. Which one of those who signed up insists? Yeah, well, please, Solomatin, Carmazin, I'm sorry, Carmazin. Prepare for Garden. Let's see what we have here, 10 minutes, 10 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u71	Yury Karmazin, Jury Karmazin’s constituency. The honourable people's deputies are certainly what has been done now in this Bill 8035, which is being replaced by the national deputy Karpov and others, is a tremendous job for which we should just thank them for doing it. I really confirm that twice I was approached about how to take into account those critical remarks that I made during my first reading of this bill. And I can say that, today, a bill has been drafted as it can be signed by the President of Ukraine as a law. For example, article 200 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and I have just had the whole process of adopting the Criminal Code to be around it, and this is in some ways my child, I want to say that it's a very well-written fake, illegal seduction or illegal obtaining documents for transfer, payment cards and other special means of payment, use or sale, as well as acquisition, storage, transfer, transfer for use or sale. This is the position of today’s articles and sanctions from 3 to 5 years after the first part. On the second part of the deprivation of liberty for a term of between 5 and 8 years with the confiscation of property and the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a period of up to three years. I want you to know that this is a very important signal for investment. This is a very important signal for the countries that are watching today, what we are doing, how we are protecting ourselves, including reforming or not reforming our legislation and criminal legislation. Amendments to the Law on the Organization of the Forming and around of Credit History, on the Income Tax of Individuals, on the Paying of Work Today, on the introduction of the procedure for monitoring, as set out in the new edition, in article 40 of the Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine, also oblige the issuer to keep monitoring with a view to identifying errors, misrepresentations, attempts to implement them and so on. Speaking of monitoring, I want monitoring not to be used in our country as just total total control. Without this law, I will vote in favour of this law for first and second reading, but including the mobile phone, everyone has probably noticed, many of those involved in politics that immediately involve re-addressing. We didn't include any re-addressing. I'm calling the Security Service. I'm calling the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u72	We turned around late, we didn't have enough time. Santa Claus, please, follow him. There's no solomatin. Cory Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u73	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It's not uncommon for our country to start with a commercial and financial project, and then we start thinking about the legal security of Ukrainian citizens from stealing from them, from fraud and so on. This is the case with the right of Ukrainian citizens to use their own funds safely through cash-free payments and payment cards and other payment instruments. The project is, of course, designed to improve the management of the risks inherent in payment, such as the development of large-scale cash-free payments using credit cards. Socialists support the provision of a bill on the protection of citizens' rights when the population gradually converts to non-cash accounts. Regrettably, it remains an amorphous guarantee of liability for punishment, for crimes involving the use of credit cards in the social danger of this operation and the development of cashless credit cards in the country. It would be easy to write out clearly that in the case of fraud with payment cards, damage to people is to be attributed to the organizers of these cards so that both parties have responsibility. In addition, it is important to keep in mind the electronic means of making payments that are increasingly involved in these transactions. And there are also significant dangers in that direction. Socialists also support changes to Ukraine’s criminal code, which extinguish criminal activity with counterfeit credit cards, sanctions for this crime should be imposed in a manner similar to sanctions for counterfeiting and the use of counterfeit money. Although there is another flaw, who and who will the bill protect people from ATMs or vice versa. Socialists also support the bill to accelerate the formation of a single system of monitoring for deposit operations with counterfeit cards. But it does clarify the issue of introduction to minimize the risks of customers, but these are just the first steps. Therefore, the bill should be adopted in the first reading and should take into account the comments that are made and others that are yet to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u74	Yes, Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u75	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine and the Criminal Code on the security of payment cards holders against the unlawful actions of others. We consider as a major benefit that the Act provides for increased control over the misuse of payment cards, ensuring security against illegal access to them. The important thing is that prepaid cards, club cards, joint cards, purchaser’s union cards, and so on are more liberal and can be used more actively. Card holders can set limits on the use of money on these cards. The negatives should be marked by a significant, perhaps excessive, increase in criminal responsibility for falsifying documents for transfers, payment cards, or other payment instruments, as well as acquisition, storage, transportation, or use, or sales. Our conclusion is that. The bill can be supported on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u76	Thank you. Solomon passes the word. Marcus Mary, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u77	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fourth call has already been made with projects that envisaged amendments to article 200 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and, at the same time, the dispositions and sanctions of article 200 of the two projects have significant differences and, in general, none of them are acceptable, as will be discussed further. The term used in the project is not fully in line with other projects' proposals and it is a synonymous series — counterfeiting, counterfeiting, falsification and flooring. One term must be chosen – “subordination”. And because Project 8035 is too. the terms before article 200, we consider it necessary to apply the term “subordination” in its positions. Complementing the 200 new forms of the commission of this crime - illegal possession or illegal receipt of documents for transfer of payment cards or other payment instruments - will result in competition with the norms of this sex and article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. After all, the actions indicated are preparation or attempted crime against property, namely fraud. In addition, in order to facilitate the interpretation of the provisions of part two of draft article 200, it would be appropriate to replace the word of the documents with payment cards or other payment documents. The contention of any article, especially parts of the Criminal Code, does not provide or foresee the commission of a crime by a criminal organization as a hallmark, for the creation of a criminal organization is a crime of its own, which is the responsibility for which article 255 of the Criminal Code states. Therefore, in cases where a criminal organization commits any crime, there is a qualification for a group of crimes. The sanctions of article 200 of the Criminal Code, as drafted, appear to be highly exaggerated in relation to the sanctions of other articles of chapter 7 of a particular section of the Criminal Code, as well as an article of a particular part of the Criminal Code that provides for responsibility for the commission of similar or uniform offences, such as articles 190, 191, 199, 223 and 224 of the Criminal Code, and thus does not contribute to the achievement of the purpose of the punishment provided for in part 50 of the Criminal Code. I don't think the bill should be voted on. In addition, the honorable men, as well as all the men of Ukraine, welcome you to the festival tomorrow, with the Day of the Soviet Army, which has brought many victorious victories and has turned many, many glorious pages in the history of our nation. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u78	On behalf of the men, thank you, Maria Andriyovno. The discussion is over, we will be determined. People's deputies please come into the session room. The cards of you must be worn by almost every one of you. I am voting for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to manage the risk of penalties for crimes and security requirements and to carry out operations by special means of payment, other matters of their use. Registration number 8035-d. Please vote. [[12:31:42]] For-157. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 30, Communists – 0, People's Party – 34, Block of Timoshenko – 22, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Socialists – 4, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 11, Ukrainian People's Party – 14, “Rebirth” – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 4, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 8. Yuri Anatoliyovich, everyone understood, even your two-headed or two-member bloc, and only one person voted. They both voted, didn't they? Yes, the honourable colleagues, so we have already once, says Yuri Anatoliyevich, that two voted, but this is a violation of the Constitution. We've been on the road once before. It doesn't make sense. Let's go back from the new cadence to that question. I think there'll be more understanding then. More understanding. Let's go back to everyone who's going to be introduced. Bogdan, work. I know you're tired, but we've got some work to do. A section is being considered for a reduced procedure: Draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On the Higher Council of Justice", registration number 9017. [[about the order of the destination]] Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that the High Council of Justice is an extremely important body in the judicial branch system, and it is clear that we have to ensure the smooth and efficient functioning of this body. Let me remind you that of the 20 members of the High Council of Justice, 3 represent the Supreme Council. Of these, the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice has ceased today, and it has ended. Two, two of our representatives are out of office in May. You also remember the repeated efforts to vote on our representative's candidacy to the High Council of Justice failed and largely because it is provided for by law in article 8 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the secret ballots. There's no way we can vote like this. I would also like to remind you that we agree to appoint the same Prime Minister by secret ballot, the Attorney-General, remember, this is the person appointed by the President by the Supreme Council, perhaps someone would like us not to know how he voted, but we are voting openly. And I would also like to remind you that the Rules, Chapters 3.7 and 5.2, do not provide for a secret ballot on the candidates or bodies involved, do not provide for a secret vote on the election of the members of the High Council of Justice. I therefore proposed in article 8 of Part 2 that the words “by secret ballot” should be deleted. I have to tell you that when this bill was being considered by the Legal Policy Committee, there was a proposal to add that voting could be secret in the electronic voting regime in the Supreme Council Hall. Sure and so, I don't mind, but I think the exact position of secret balloting should be deleted. Otherwise, we will not provide a more dynamic, effective solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u80	Thank you, Victor Lavrentyovich. All clear, clear and clear, just a little bit of a break-up with the Rules, because the Rules were adopted before the Supreme Council of Justice had not yet existed, so clearly the Rules could not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u81	But there was no change.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u82	He couldn't take that into account, because the 98th Law on the Higher Council of Justice, and the 94th Rules. Thank you. Please sit down. It's a reduced procedure. Shall we discuss it? No one insists on discussing it? If we can get Yuri Anatoliovich together so he doesn't insist, he wants to. Please, Yuri Carmazin, from the site microphone. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. Dear National Deputies! I want to ask you to look very carefully and count how much time we've wasted with you and how much paper we've lost to hold a meeting and choose, to select members of the Constitutional Court, we haven't chosen them yet. Now the Supreme Council is practically not represented in the Higher Council of Justice. Our interests, the national MPs, are virtually unprotected. Yes, God with our interests, we have no other interests than the interests of the electorate. Today, there are 60,000 cases at the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It's a clot. People write all the time, people complain all the time. Now I have a new complaint in my mail that the head of the Herson District Court of Appeal has an assistant who's been tried twice and hid and failed to check on others. And people are protesting about you. How can these situations be affected? How can we influence the fact that, for example, the head of the Donetsk Court of Appeal or Luhansk took part in political proceedings in Severerodonetsk? How can you influence, as not through the Higher Council of Justice? And it is my appreciation that Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak saw that we had recorded and limited ourselves, that we were secretly voting for members of the High Council of Justice by passing ballots. Everyone in this room knows. And if a normal candidate is offered here, why won't it go through a hall that will set up everyone and have no political coloring? It will certainly pass. Therefore, it is suggested that these words should be excluded from the secret ballot by means of the submission of ballot papers in article 8 of the Higher Council of Justice Act. That's in the first part. And in the third part, too, which is the result of a secret ballot that gets most of the votes. The word “secret ” is proposed to be deleted. This is all the changes to this law. What did I take the floor for? It's not about taking your word now or just taking your time. I took the floor so that all who did not read this project would understand its meaning so that all of us and our listeners would understand its meaning. Let's vote it both in the first, and in the second, we'll take it as a law. That is what the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy recommends. This will make our work much easier, and this will ensure the effective work of the High Council of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u84	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You've made it very clear. But I remind you, while you were speaking, you had another phone complaint coming to you, please look there. Yes, Santa Claus, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u85	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. Of course, the bill proposes that the mechanism of secret ballots be lifted and that the voting be carried out in the normal regime. I think it's going to be the right thing to do, to support the socialists and to vote for both in the first reading and in general. Unless there are any other comments. And I urge all deputies to vote. In doing so, we simplify the procedure for selecting the appropriate members of the High Council of Justice, which means that we will bring them closer to us in order to be able to discuss, to ask, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u86	Basil Nadrag, please, mic, minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u87	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues! What is the question? We are instituting a procedure for appointing members of the High Council of Justice just as we elect the Prime Minister, as the Attorney-General, through the Hall, with the opportunity to ask questions, with the opportunity to discuss the situation accordingly. So no questions asked, I think that's something to be maintained. I'm the only one who addresses everyone in this room without exception. We're all here talking about what needs to be done, now all we need to do is take and vote. Let us not, so to speak, divide the situation into what we are saying and what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Question completed. This is the right thing to do, although it is clear that this is probably a new cadence, but perhaps we should go back to having all personal matters handled in secret. Destination. But we have these laws, so let's either unify, or unify, or all of them in secret, or all of them in public. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice. Registration number 9017. [[12:42:36]] For 139 The factions. Areas 32, Communists 0, People's Party 32, Block Timoshenko 0, Our Ukraine 7, Socialists 12, People's Block Lithuania 14, Social Democrats 5, Ukrainian People's Party 14, Rebirth 9, National Movement of Ukraine 0, Industrial and Business Party 5, Reforms and Orders 0, Non-fractional 9. [[United]] Let's do more, authors, with factions. Let's take a look at him. The “Other Reading ” chapter is being considered. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange. Registration number 2089. As we can see by the number, our very large debt is, more faithfully, long. Budjigan Philip Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you something. The bill, which is proposed for you, was considered in the second reading, registration number 2089, was adopted in the first reading on July 9, 2003. So there is also a need to remind you of what it is about. And his point is to one thing. Article 15, which refers to the “Commercial Exchange” Exchange Transactions of the Ukrainian Law, proposes to exclude a part of a second that reads as follows: “Agreements registered on the Stock Exchange are not subject to notarial certification”. During the preparation for the second reading, during this period that I told you, one proposal came from the National Deputy Carmazin, who offers contracts registered on the market, is subject to notarial certification. So it's diametrically opposite. The committee disagreed with that position. I think Yuri Anatolyevich will agree with us. In view of the fact that only real estate agreements are subject to mandatory notarial certification in order to avoid double payment for contracts made on the stock market, it is suggested that the second part of article 15 that I just read to you be excluded. If a party insists on notifying the agreement, then the notary will, of course, testify. The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Carmazine doesn't insist? Carmazine's microphone, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, Carmazin Block. Dear National Deputies, there was a part of the first reading, and in general there was part two in the law: contracts registered on the stock market are not subject to notarial certification. And I suggested that we put it in this paper: “ Agreements registered on the stock market are subject to notarial certification. Because of what? Because now look at what happened to the Elite Housing in Kiev. Let us not tread on the same rakes. When it goes through a notary, there is an additional guarantee that the rights of a natural, legal person will not be violated. This is not going to be a big one. It's not going to be a big one. This is what this is about, and that's why I'm from the point of view that we have to write the Laws in such a way that they corresponded to life. I suggest you consider my amendment after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u92	Well, the point of this amendment is whether the Law will be so, for the Law consists of one article, one sentence, which is denied by Yuri Anatolyovich. So by voting with you, we will now determine the fate of this Law. I'll put it to a vote. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u93	So it is a single amendment and the whole point of the Law is to make this amendment. That if we accept your amendment, there is no law. We don't accept the amendment -- there's the Law, because, well, they realized that the Law is made up of one sentence. I'm putting to the vote the amendment, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Don't wave because you're waving at yourself. [[12:47:29]] For-30 So Karmazin's amendment took 30 votes -- it doesn't go through. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as the Act on the Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange. Registration number 2089. Please vote. [[12:47:58]] For-170. By factions, please: 32 - “Regions”, 51 - Communists, National Party - 2, Block Timoshenko - 2, Block Our Ukraine - 4, Socialists - 22, National Block of Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 4, Ukrainian People's Party - 14, Rebirth - 1, People's Movement of Ukraine - 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Reforms and Orders - 0, Postfraction - 2. [[United]] The bill is considered to be rejected. There's a bill on. Yes, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration of business subjects). Second reading. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! This bill is designed to bring the requirements of other laws into line with the requirements of the state registration organisation in the form of “one window”. In particular, this applies only to the submission of documents, the adoption of documents, and the transmission of documents to the State registry. Thus, legal persons of any and natural person who is subject to entrepreneurial activity will receive their documents during the state registration, while already registering with all social funds. This is beneficial for subjects, since they save time greatly, and this is beneficial for social funds, since they have a clear registration in line with government registration. So this makes the relationship between the entrepreneurial community and the social funds much more transparent. So I ask you very much to support this bill and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Wait, please. Xenia Mikhailovna, wait for the rostrum. Now. The thing is, there's a note here, including yours. Do you agree with them that they are not included? Which one of those authors?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u96	Adam Ivanovich, what I want to say is that this bill, this bill, is directly related to a bill that, unfortunately, yesterday for the same reason that today, i.e. the absence of deputies in the room, did not receive votes – the Law on State Registration, which regarding trade unions, political parties and public organizations. Unfortunately, he didn't get a vote yesterday. And my comments were that a number of technical positions were passed on to the bill. So now we have a real technical, technological problem. Part not voted on, part will be voted on in this bill. Maybe it's better to put it back to second reading, because if it's not voted now, we're just gonna lose our chance. Let's do some work, because we're going to lose the chance to really have a normal life.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, so we're going for work?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u98	Let's do some work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u99	Is there no objection? Vote? Yeah, well, let's have a signal vote. We'll have the signal vote now. Sit down, Xenia, vote. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8125. [[on the registration of business entities]] Please vote. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[12:51:51]] For 246 The law is passed. Thank you. Oh, that was a signal? All right, let's keep it clean, don't relax. Don't relax. Lapina, Lapina, don't relax, it was a signal vote, it was a signal vote, it's in the Rules, so I'm putting to a vote not a signal vote anymore, but the main one about the adoption of the whole Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8125. [[on the registration of business entities]] Please vote. [[12:52:49]] For 259. See? Better. The law is passed. Listens to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities, second reading, Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, please. [[on the acceptance of documentation]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The practice of architectural activity objectively requires a review of actual building legislation, particularly the Ukrainian Act on Architecture, adopted in 1999. In order to bring the bill into line with market conditions that are rapidly developing in the field of architectural activity, the Government of Ukraine introduced a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Architecture in April last year. Regrettably, the proposed changes were largely editorial and were not substantial. This was confirmed by the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In view of the above, an appropriate working group was set up to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the adoption of the bill on the basis of a committee with the government. A working group of 60 experts included national deputies, representatives of central executive bodies, district authorities, and the Kiev City Public Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u101	Valery Pavlovich, I'm sorry. Let's get closer to the law, it's clear that you've been seriously preparing it, like everything else. By note.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u102	I can tell you the next one. There were 42 comments and all of them were taken into account. And the main thing is that it's a simplified procedure, including for citizens. For one month, when a citizen is asked to forget about local authorities, he should consider his proposals and the appropriate decisions taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u103	Thank you. This is the committee's work, all the notes are taken into account. So I have every reason to vote on adoption as a whole as a law. Concerning amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities. Registration number 7365. Please be kind. Vote. [[12:55:15.]] For 254 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft law on the approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Base for the period up to 2010 is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 1166. Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Given even the number 1166, you realize that this is even more debt than previous laws. The law, which has been worked by both ministries and the committee, is a problem of a mineral and raw base that is constantly in one of the serious places on the committees of the Supreme Council and in the government. I want to say that the program provides for two terms 2006-2008, 2008-2010. A bill for the development of priority directions and geological research aimed at securing Ukraine’s farms with essential types of mineral raw materials. The total amount of funding under the programme is about 9 billion. of which $3.5 billion No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. During the preparation, proposals were made by the deputies and the legal authorities of the Supreme Council’s Office for Supplements. We agree, in particular, with amendments such as the Cabinet of Ministers in the preparation of draft laws on the State budget of Ukraine for the year in question, to provide for the allocation of appropriate funds for the implementation of the measures set out in this programme. Also, in order not to disrupt the 2006 budget, we propose that this bill be put into effect as of January 1, 2007. The committee also agrees with the adjustment of the program’s position in the geological mapping of the territory of Ukraine, which applies to the scope of the work. The committee suggests that the honourable deputies, also on page 55, in a comparative table, place a dot in the portion of the program after the words “subjects of other forms of property”. What's this all about? The point is that we want to ensure equal access to all forms of enterprise property to do the work on this program so that there is no distortion. The program was reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and decided, on a basis, to take this decision in 2003, on June 19. I therefore propose to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u105	Thank you. I refer to the national MPs who made their proposals, but they are rejected. Who insists? There's no such thing. Then let us take into account what Hennady Borisovich said, namely that he has been in force since 1 January 2007 and other proposals that the committee has supported. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law of the Law approving the National Programme for the Development of Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Base for the period up to 2010. Registration No. 1166. Please vote. [[12:58:34]] For 227 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration No. 8022. Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Water Code, introduced by the Government, is being considered. Registration number from 1108.2005 63 proposals for changes were proposed, 61 proposals included and two proposals taken into account in part. Full attention is given to the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Basically, the proposals applied, in all the practical articles of the bill -- terminology, ownership of water objects, water use. In particular, only water objects located within their own privatized areas can be provided to citizens and legal persons. Because there's no refinement at all today, so we're giving a clearer wording here. We also remove from the list of specially authorized central executives in the field of water management and control, and from the reproduction of water resources by the central executive authorities on fisheries issues. So we're just putting it back to normal, as it used to be in the Water Code, we're doing the system more than it was. And we're also more transparent, from our point of view, and we've systematically written out the powers of the central organs themselves. In particular, a series of supplements, article 47, is supplemented by a section that prohibits restrictions on free access to water for culturally healthy recreational purposes. We also believe that article 51, which relates to the rental of water objects, is very important, and I have made a proposal for a new edition of this article that water objects will be leased on a competitive basis as a whole complex under a single lease agreement. More clearly defined types of water objects are leased. Additionally included ponds and reservoirs on small and medium rivers of up to 3 million cubic meters [3 million cubic meters], since no regulation has been issued today. This will limit the rental of all reservoirs and other water objects, as provided for in article 59 of the Earth Code. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has called for a bill with observations, and yet I propose that MPs accept the committee's proposal and support the Water Code as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of you has made proposals, are they not included, do you insist on reasoning? There aren't any. I am voting on the second reading as a whole as the Act on Change in the Water Code, 8022. [[13:02:03]] For-191 Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[13:02:28]] For 180. Not supported. Please, Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, it's a matter of procedure. I want to take another look, especially at government factions. Your Honor, the government bill, it deals with a lot of problems that are urgent today. So please exercise your discipline and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u109	Yes. We've already voted, we've already shown discipline. Well, I'm back. Who's in charge of coming back? One last time, please. Try it. [[13:03:30]] For 225 Let it work. Let's do that, because that's the result, let's keep the committee working. Let him work on it. Who is responsible for the second? Please vote. [[13:04:15]] For 229 A decision has been made. Dear friends, we will soon come to another expression. Yes, a draft Act amending article 57 of the Education Act, registration number 7506, is under consideration. [[on Credits for Payments]] Please, Drozuntsev Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We considered this law in the first reading and it received almost a constitutional majority. You are now offered the same law – amending and supplementing article 57 of the Education Act in the second reading. What are we talking about? Since there were no comments, it is suggested that part of the first article 57 be supplemented by a brief paragraph in one sentence: “The granting of extended long-term loans for the construction, reconstruction and acquisition of housing for teaching and teaching staff. I ask you very much to repeat the previous vote. The Committee on Science and Education recommends the bill. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the discharge, let us vote this short law as required by the regulations. I mean, I put it to a vote, it's small, we're going to lose some time, but let's just vote on one law. This regulatory committee requires me to hold such a vote. I'm voting on the name of the law. Who is in favour of supporting this very name of the law amending and supplementing article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. Please vote. [[13:06:50]] For 240 Copy that. Yeah, if there's a note before. complement, to the first. Sergey Ivanovich, I am doing just as I should in the second reading. Are there any remarks in the National Deputies before the 1st article about changes to this law? You don't? Can we vote? Vote. [[13:07:31]] For 237 Copy that. Is there a reference to the 2nd article of this law that this law takes effect as of 1 January 2007? You don't? Vote 2 in the article. [[13:07:58]] For 246 Thank you. So we voted 1st and 2nd. There were no comments. We supported, voted on the name of the law, we have every reason to put the law in the second reading and in general. Vote. [[13:08:26]] For 240 Thank you. The law is passed. I pursued two goals. First. So you can have a little exercise. And the other one. If, in your opinion, that's two sentences we've taken five minutes, what if 50 or 100 pages and you have to take it that way? The law is passed. The draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Internal Affairs, registration number 8044, is under consideration. Mr. Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u112	Dear National Deputies! Our committee considered the bill in a second reading. Amendments 39, including 32, were rejected – 7 and the committee considered the second reading to be an offer to accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u113	Thank you. We're not gonna vote like the last one here? No, it's not. Okay, thanks for the support. No one insists on their comments? The second reading vote is then viewed as the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Internal Affairs Registration No. 8044. Please vote. [[13:09:58]] For 193 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 3, Communists – 50, People's Party – 9, Block Timoshenko – 9, “Our Ukraine” – 36, Socialists – 22, “National Block of Lithuania” – 19, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, “Rebirth” – 12, People's Movement of Ukraine – 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 5, “Reforms and Orders” – 4, “Affection – 4. [[United]] Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich, let me say what you want almost. You realize that we're the same, maybe some people don't vote, think he's doing worse for the Ministry. No, you don't do worse for the ministries. On the contrary, if you and I accept this disciplinary charter, we will resolve these points and we will have with you more reason to control these organs. Let us vote on adoption as a whole. Come on, because Carmazin can't handle it. And Sushimu after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, Yuri Karmazin's Block. Honorable national MPs may not have realized that this disciplinary statute, more specifically the law on the disciplinary statute of internal affairs, protects every militiaman from conscription, gives him the right to complain about illegal acts. It protects the rights of those who are now on the watch for our health and investigate the most difficult matters. Is that not understandable? See that all your adjustments are taken into account. I've looked at it now: my points are also taken into account. You have destroyed such disciplines that violate the Constitution, 43 articles, such as post humiliations, appointments, and so forth. I urge you, let us now take the vote more seriously, let us all vote in favour. Thank you. We'll protect a private militiaman. We'll protect any militiaman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u115	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But I'm correcting you: you can't have any corrections, you can only have serious solid corrections. Please, Jaroslav Dry with motive and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". I would like to contact the National Deputies with a report that, as you may have done, I have been asked by the heads of the Department of Internal Affairs to support the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Internal Affairs. It is also absolutely necessary because, in the wake of this orange bard, which we now see in the state, there must be at least one object, although one organ to ensure order in the country, I think that, for this statute, for the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine, we must visually vote with a view to at least ensuring that the elections are fair and transparent and with the preservation of the rights and freedoms of our citizens in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u117	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I think we will vote visually and consciously for one organ with you. Please, Sas. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u118	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Yuri Karmazin, Jury Karmazin's Block, number one on the list of candidates for Jury Karmazin's Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u119	Thank you. He didn't ask you. What you've been giving, like you. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. We're all clear. Let each body, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, work in harmony with the Law. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law on the disciplinary statute of internal affairs. Registration number 8044. Please vote. [[13:14:34]] For 269 Thank you. The Statute for Organs was adopted. Dear colleagues, don't beat up the chairman! I said, “Who is to be accepted as a law as a whole.” 269, Act adopted. Thank you for that. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 7387. Dear colleagues, no comment? Vote? We will help those who live in the mountains. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. Registration number 7387. Please vote. Who's holding on to the yellow ones? [[13:15:36]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Infringement of Petroleum Law, registration number 4536, is under consideration. Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code on Liability for Violations of Petroleum Law. Registration number 4536. The bill was adopted at the first reading on December 15, 2004. There were 24 comments and suggestions. Of these, 18, part one is counted, five are rejected. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u121	Yes, please, who made the remarks, but they weren't taken into account? Rudenko, have you noticed? Please, Rudenka's microphone. Call it an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u122	Thank you. I've got amendment number 14. And so I realized that there must have been some technical error, because my proposal was to complement the item “Unfulfillment of the orders of the expert opinions, the prescriptions of the officials”, to add: “Unfulfillment of written orders”. And most of the committee's deputies agreed, I know, with this proposal. So I think it's either a technical error, or let's separately support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u123	What does the committee have to say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u124	There's probably a print there, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u125	So you're okay with the offer, right? Rudenko's proposal is consistent with a written committee. Yeah, which one? You don't? I then put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Petroleum Law. Registration number 4536. Please vote. [[13:18:28]] For 175 According to factions: “Ukraine” - 37, Communists - 0, National Party - 17, Block Timoshenko - 4, Our Ukraine - 27, Socialists - 20, National Block Lithuania - 21, Social Democrats - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, Rebirth - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 6, Industrial and Business Party - 10, Reform and Order - 9, Non-fractional - 4. [[United]] Who's in charge of coming back? [[13:19:18]] For-154 We're not back, we're out. Please turn on the Manchulenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u126	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plushka. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, we have adopted the Law and I am deeply grateful that we have accepted it to amend the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. It is only necessary for the transcript to probably indicate one thing for the protocol: the draft agenda for today is Bill 7387, and the bill that we have just voted in favour, 260 votes in favour, there, the bill provides four bills: 7761, which I have introduced; 7387-1, 7387 and 7796. So the bill that we voted on includes four bills. And in order of the day, there's only one number. So there's no different reading that's only accepted by 7387. I would like to highlight this, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u127	Thank you. I think so, because the law that we passed, I mean, it takes into account all the suggestions that you called. And when we adopted, we looked at these bills in the first reading, we gave the profile committee, because they weren't alternatives, they were complementing each other, all of these laws were bound by the same law. And they're plotted here, and it's going to be the way it is in the table. I mean, don't worry. Don't worry. What's the procedure? Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u128	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. I would like to draw the attention of the chairman of this session, Adam Ivanovich, yours, and the Centre for Elections, who is in grave violation of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. The administrative resource is being used. We don't have a Pluto block in our Hall, in the Supreme Council. We have, let's say, a faction there of the People's Party, we don't have a block of Lithuania, other blocks. We have factions that were formed at the beginning. And when you use a microphone to keep talking about, let's say there's a block, a block, a block, it's using an administrative resource. I'm asking you to make a note and point that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, calm down! We have total democracy, everyone says what they want. Well, I'm not gonna close my mouth to anyone who goes out to the rostrum. Well, try to make a deal with Yuri Anatolyovich. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of morals and the establishment of humanistic values in society, registration number 5115, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Mr. Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We all say what we want, and I'm gonna have to say what the committee has to say. The bill was adopted on 14 December last year. However, over the past 15 months, the situation in our legal field has changed slightly, resulting in the fact that the drafters of the bill refer to the existing articles of amended laws, in particular the National Council on Television and Broadcasting Act and the Television and Radio Act. As a result, the bill today, as proposed by the authors, cannot be voted on, the Committee therefore invites the Supreme Council to repeal its decision of 14 December last year and to withdraw the bill from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u131	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Understand, fellow believers? So we have to cancel the previous decision. Sergey Petrovich, please sit down. Yuri Anatolyovich forgot that it was the second reading, that it was the second. I repeat, we are looking at the bill in the second reading. I'm betting on the vote, Yuri Anatolyevich, let's work peacefully. Yuri Anatolyevich, let's work peacefully. I am voting on the repeal of our adoption order in the first reading of the Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine”, registration number 5115. [[on the protection of morals and the promotion of humanistic values in society]] Please be kind. We don't undo morality, we cancel what doesn't fit the laws. [[13:24:36]] For 158. No, we cannot put it in a second reading because it is not ready for second reading, because a number of articles that need to be adopted are already regulated in other laws and are contrary to what is already in force in laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, there is a reference in the law to article 30 of the National Television Council Act. In the current law, 27 articles. Well, let's vote, and what happens if we suddenly cut and vote for how this law will be implemented? Let's take a picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u133	Yes, dear fellows. Yeah, give it to Carmazin, but you're either on the microphone or on the phone. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u134	Yuri Karmazin, “The Jury of Carmazin Block”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm going to vote now, we're going to organize a vote, a question in another. I want to hear from the committee, I want to hear from the chairman today what's being done so that we don't adopt laws that are based. The first reading is based on a lack of analysis. I've been talking to you all the time, listen, don't take it any other way, and you're voting it all out. Now I want them to say, and who is to say it happened by name, and we will now vote and cancel, is not going to be in the right field of our Ukraine. But just so you know why this happened, let's see it all. This is important to all, and it is important for you, Adam Ivanovich, to understand why it came about in order to treat the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u135	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I sincerely hope that, after March of the month, your block will take a powerful place in the session hall and there will be no such laws. Now let's cancel what we let go of. I am voting on the annulment of the decision to adopt in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of morals and the promotion of humanistic values in society]] Registration number 5115. Please be supportive. Let's fix it. [[13:27:12]] For 217 According to factions, please show: "Regions of Ukraine" -33, Communists -54, National Party - 21, "Our Ukraine" - 26, Block Timoshenko - 3, Socialist Party - 19, National Block of Lithuania - 15, Social Democratic Party - 6, Ukrainian People's Party - 14, "Rebirth" - 9, People's Movement of Ukraine - 3, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, non-fractional - 2. [[united]] Who's to come back? [[13:28:02]] For 233 Thank you. We're back. I'm voting on the adoption of the relevant decision. [[on Bill No. 5115]] Please vote. [[13:28:25]] For 246 Thank you. Copy that. And we had to do it like this, not to do it right away, but all of Yuri Anatolyovich. We are considering the section “Questions of Ratification”. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the definition of a common scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union crisis management operations. Registration number 0314. First Deputy Foreign Minister Ogrizko Vladimir Stanislavovich, please. Perhaps, if you have any questions, let's sign up. Let the First Deputy Minister answer. Please sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Honourable National Deputies, the Parliament is being reviewed by Bill 0314 on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the definition of a general scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union crisis resolution operations. It was initiated by the President of Ukraine, in accordance with Article 93 of the Constitution and Article 9 of the Law on International Treaties of Ukraine. The prescribed law has been prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in cooperation with other interested authorities of the Central Executive. According to Minustu, the bill is consistent with the Constitution and does not conflict with the international treaties of Ukraine. The agreement was signed on behalf of Ukraine on 13 June 2004 by the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the EU, Mr. Spek. Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union, the process of shaping and implementing European security and defence policies continues. A key aspect of this policy is the conduct of civil and military peacekeeping operations by the European Union. In order to facilitate the organisation of cooperation and the interaction of the European Union with partner countries, it was decided to introduce into the practice of making so-called framework agreements. The agreement in question is such a framework document. It represents a scheme to ensure Ukraine’s participation in future European Union crisis management operations that would be carried out by civilian or military means. With this agreement in force, the principle of association with the European Union in this area will be introduced. This approach is fully in line with the strategic course of Ukraine aimed at full integration of Ukraine into the European Union. The main subjects of the agreement, on the part of Ukraine, will be the Ministry of Internal Affairs, emergency situations, and defence. The adoption of the Law does not entail any financial expenditure for Ukraine from the State budget at this stage of cooperation with the European Union. The EU may exempt Ukraine from making financial contributions to the common costs of a specific operation carried out by the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers is asking you to approve the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine and thus ratify the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the definition of a general scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union operations and crisis resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Dry. Three minutes for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u138	Thank you, Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich, Ukraine, is experiencing a crisis of oil and gas, grain, and sugar, and is experiencing a crisis deep in metallurgy. The crisis touched all spheres of national life. Now the manic efforts of the Supreme Council to involve Ukraine in another international crisis I have personally and in our faction is causing deep and this time genuine and true anxiety. You can explain to us, please, how you tell us that this is not supposed to be military, but in this agreement it's about addressing the crisis by military and civilian means. How military means can be used to resolve a crisis without endangering the lives of their own military personnel. Explain to me, and because of me, to my voters in Zaporozhye and the people of Ukraine, what does this give us, that it gives the sovereign Ukraine the constant involvement in some kind of crisis already in the international arena?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Suhi. It's not about getting Ukraine involved in any of the other crises you're talking about. It is the involvement of Ukrainian peacekeepers or police forces, or civilian forces, in managing crises that occur in one country or another, and countries, if they need help, turn to the European Union, which in turn addresses partner countries, including Ukraine, with a proposal that Ukraine take part in the regulation of one or more crises and thus assist in resolving this or another situation. Here's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u140	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u141	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. On the basis of the independence of the State of Ukraine, there are 4 fundamental acts: the Declaration of State Sovereignty, which proclaims Ukraine's intentions in the future to become an outside-block neutral state; the Act of Declaration of Independence, which refers to what has been declared in the Declaration and the Declaration as approved by the All-U.S. referendum, in which 75 per cent of citizens who have the right to vote have supported these documents. And then in the Constitution, in the preamble, he goes on to say, going beyond the Declaration of Independence Act and so on. Please tell me if there are any efforts between artificial structures, even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President, to undermine Ukraine's legitimate independence when you involve such actions. Are you not traitors to Ukraine’s independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Solomon, I will not answer the propaganda questions that you are now asking, because they are practical work to help countries that need our help in order to, including to overcome crises that arise in one country or another. So it's not about getting involved, as you say, in some incomprehensible structures, it's about operating in the world to help other countries solve their crises. That is, Ukraine’s participation in helping other nations if they offer such assistance. Dear colleagues, what we're talking about. Dear colleagues, don't get excited, don't get excited. Although the spring is coming up. But. Please sit down, Vladimir Stanislavovich. From the committee, acting as Head of the Committee on Euro-Integration Affairs, Oleg Zarubinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u143	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleague, distinguished national MPs! I'm reporting the committee's decision. At its meeting on 8 February this year, the Committee considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the definition of a general scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union crisis resolution operations, and recommended it until the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee concluded that the ratification of the agreement provided legal basis for the participation of Ukrainian contingents or personnel in European Union civilian or military operations under European security and defence policy. Ukraine's involvement in EU operations will take place in accordance with the principle of volunteering. That is, after an invitation from the European Union, Ukraine makes the right decision. However, if agreed, the European Union shall inform the European Union of the forms of its participation in the operation. It's okay. It's The agreement provides for Ukraine to make financial contributions. It's really up to common costs and it defines the formulas to calculate their sum. However, paragraph 4 of Article 8 referred to this point in article 12, paragraph 3, of the Treaty states that in principle the European Union exempts third States from making financial contributions to the common costs of a specific EU operation with the control of a civil or military crisis, if: (a) the contribution of that country to the operation is essential or (b) and this is obviously crucial to us, this country has per capita income which does not exceed the equivalent income of any European Union State. So, I think the conclusion about financial, they say, is that the cost is completely clear, based on that ratio of middle income. The ratification of the agreement will, in the opinion of the Committee, be a practical step towards deepening cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in the field of European policy, security and defence. And one more moment. The bill is in line, and we have passed the verdict to the committee, to the requirements of current legislation, and the treaty to the interests of Ukraine. The decision of the committee on the bill is in line with the positive conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Export Authority. And I have to say that the draft law was considered at the National Security and Defence Committee on 7 February 2006 and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have an appropriate conclusion on the Committee on National Security and Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u144	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Shall we be determined? Let's talk about it, but by this system, one minute, who signed up. Okay? Because we don't have time. Please, Piggy, one minute, Carmazin's next. The point is, I think you can talk in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u145	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. “You cannot live in the world and be free from it,” is a famous quote. And we cannot be isolated from the geopolitical processes that are taking place around Ukraine. It is clear, therefore, that Ukraine must participate in these processes, and we must support the agreement. But I understand that a certain part of the MPs have now expressed quite negative. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the faction of SDPU(o) and the Party of Regions over the period 2002-2004, and some of them have previously, carefully and obediently supported by their votes all of the draft legislation relating to Ukraine's cooperation with NATO, with the European Union. There was a time when the Ukrainian authorities, led by Kuchma-Janukovich, played multi vector schemes in foreign policy, playing with Russia, the US and Europe to realize their personal interests. So I don't think we need to say the opposite today, but we need to do a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u146	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, the election block of Yuri Karmazin, which goes to number 14 on the list. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the fact that this treaty should be ratified is certain. Why? Since the European Council in Seville approved the mechanism for consultation and cooperation between the European Union and Ukraine on crisis management in 2002, I stress the date of 21 and 22 June 2002. And that's good, because, God forbid, when crises occur in any place in Europe, they can also affect Ukraine. I read the articles on financial participation and, unfortunately, the evidence that they said was, unfortunately, correct. I am extremely ashamed that there is no country in Europe today, and what per capita GDP would be like with us is $800. Even in Poland, it's 4,000, 800, 6 times more. That's what I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u149	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues! We are discussing today whether Ukraine should participate in the elimination of crises abroad. I have a question a little different. I am empowered today by the members of the People's Block of Lithuania to ask another question: “When will we deal with the crisis and not meet the internal obligations?” We have adopted a law with you, according to which 1 per cent, I stress, one per cent of the total amount of privatization “Criminal” has been given to the Horn of Crime and to give to the surrounding regions, which have experienced environmental, communal and other problems. Regrettably, in the absence of a single statement by the Cabinet of Ministers that this will be done, the money is not listed today. The poachers ask, until Kiev gives up the money that has been adopted under the Supreme Council law. I am addressing everyone: the deputies in the Chamber, the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, to you, Sir, let's be clear, this is no longer a matter for law enforcement. The Horn's curve is waiting for the money he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u150	Yeah, we'll figure it out after Solomon's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear fellow countrymen! We're getting into trouble again. Let me explain. In the foundations, the legal foundations of Ukrainian independence are outstanding acts: The Declaration of State Sovereignty of the 1990s, which states that Ukraine intends to become a non-block neutral and non-nuclear state in the future; the Act of declared independence of Ukraine of the 91st, which refers to the Declaration, and all the Ukrainian referendums of the 91st year when the Act was confirmed by 75 percent of citizens who have the right to vote. So any president we choose is only 40-45 percent of the voter vote, the Supreme Council is 45-52 votes, with their laws and decrees, and they have no power over the first-December referendums in the country. So attacking the foundations of Ukrainian independence is an act of national betrayal. I warn you, Your Honor First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, you will be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u152	Yes, please, Stupak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u153	Vladimir Stupak, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union does not involve Ukraine in any kind of trouble. Why? Because, first of all, in each case, Ukraine is making a separate decision if there are such cases and the European Union will turn to us. Secondly, this contributes to the development of a contractual legal basis for relations with the European Union and there is nothing wrong with that. That is why the Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plushka supports this bill and calls on all deputies to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u154	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Oh, Taran, please give me a minute. I didn't notice you in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I'd like to say literally one aspect that I didn't say here. After this ratification, Ukraine will be able to provide relief to the population as it wishes. Period. I mean. Friends, we don't live on a separate island, we live in a European world. And if we want or can help someone, let's look at ourselves. What, we don't have Chernobyl on our side? We don't have the same nuclear grave? And if we want to be helped, we're not even going to ratify this agreement? If we want to be treated humanly, we need to be treated in a similar way. Well, it's just the nonsense that we are today. Everything in the world and we don't want to ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u156	Yeah, it's done. The question is of course interesting. The EU says that we will be there in at least 20 years, but let’s do it now. I am voting on the adoption of a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the definition of a general scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union crisis resolution operations. Registration number 0314. [[13:47:41]] For-141 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 2, People's Party – 15, Block of Timoshenko – 12, "Our Ukraine" – 35, Socialists – 21, "People's Block of Lithuania" – 14, Social Democrats – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, "Rebirth" – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, "Reforms and Orders" – 2, "Afterfraction" – 5. Well, you know, it's possible that, uh, respectable colleagues, that's all we do all the time. Regarding the statement made here by our colleague Nadrag. Indeed, this is a testimony to you, as respects the Supreme Council and not to the Supreme Council, as those who ultimately sign laws to enforce laws do. And remember the vow here, in the session hall, when we listened to one of the questions of the alternate prime minister of the executive duty, as he said throughout the country that he guaranteed that the funds provided for in our law, the funds provided for amending the budget, one percent of what he received from the sale of the "Criminals" would be directed to the "Criminal" and to the development of social issues in the area. It was a promise, but, like everything else, it remains, unfortunately, a promise. To the law of human life. Yes, Your Honor, if you don't mind, let's pass the Law on Ratification of the Friendship and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan. Is there no objection? I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. Vote. [[13:49:48]] For 240 Thank you. The law is passed. If you have no objection, let us adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the employment and social protection of Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily working in the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan and citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan who are temporarily working in Ukraine. Registration number 0322. Please vote. Vote. [[13:50:34]] For 243 Thank you. The law is passed. The deal's ratified. If you agree, let us adopt the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Gambia on Cooperation in Economics, Education, Science and Technology. Registration number 0319. Please take a friendly vote. It's not a gambit, it's a gambia. [[13:51:12]] For 245 Thank you. Decision taken. I continue to hold meetings to consider another Law. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (Financing of the Ukrainian ESCO (second phase) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development) Deputy Minister of Fuel, please, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Let's write down the questions that we have, and then we'll figure it out. Please, what are the questions to Sergei Mikhailovich? Three minutes, please, Rodionov. Rodionov's microphone on the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u157	Dear reporter, please tell us what advantages does Ukraine enjoy as a result of the ratification of this Agreement? You know that we ratify contracts a lot, but our experience. says that we have no such agreement, as they say, of any value. Please tell us what is foreseen from this ratification for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u158	This is phase two, so it's very easy for me to answer your question. In 1999, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development had already provided $20 million for energy conservation technologies implemented in Ukraine. All the loans are back. They were received by 19 businesses in Ukraine. The indicators are: 50 million kilowatt-hours per year -- the average economy that comes from these introduced technologies; 5 million cubic metres of gas per year; and about 12 million bracelets -- are heat, steam, and hot water. And now the loans are all back, they're loans that. Money that gives away to the companies that get these loans. And the Eurobank, satisfied with such summations, proposed a second phase. So now there's going to be a new $20 million. plus one is the percentage, two years of the first is the debt period, the total amount is five years, and we're going to get this in these conditions that we have right now, in terms of energy saving an additional 100 million dollars for energy-saving technologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u159	Please, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u160	I'm joining. We've decided to back it up and we'll back it up. So I'm not going to talk here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u161	Okay. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u162	Please tell me, is this $20 million that they're going to use? Won't they go away again and be left with nothing but government obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u163	Well, each payment is signed by the Minister of Finance himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u164	Which isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u165	The money will start from 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u166	Yuri Orobec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I don't think we need to say the word “five” here, because this is an example of a very positive use of funds, actually for the economy, to increase the culture of production in our country. Therefore, I urge you to stop this discussion and vote in a friendly manner, since this is a worthy subject for our attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u168	Thank you, sit down, please. Yeah, well, shall we be determined? Okay. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law on the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Financing of the Ukrainian ESCO (second phase) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0318. Please vote. [[13:55:51]] For 178. The factions. “Ukraine” - 49, Communists - 0, People's Party - 11, Block Timoshenko - 15, “Our Ukraine” - 19, Socialists - 0, National Block - 22, Social Democrats - 11, Ukrainian People's Party - 15, “Rebirth” - 10, National Movement of Ukraine - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, “Reforms and Orders” - 2, non-fractional - 1. [[United]] Who's to go back to the vote? [[13:56:37]] For 181 No decision taken. From what? Is that a question? Not that question? Well, then I can give it to you. Well, dear, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u169	Adam Ivanovich, I want to go back to the theme "Criminals". You're absolutely. I agree with your assessment, but I think we, as the Supreme Council, have to react a little differently than just saying that today there's no money going to the Curve Horn. This is what we talked about in the Lithuanian People's Block, but we can't. If it was accepted, and you're right to recall, I asked the Prime Minister where the money was, and when it would be, this 1% of privatization, in the Horn of Curve. And he promised. You can't do that either. I understand that they have their plans, their moods and their interests, but there are also people in the Horn of Curve waiting for the promised law and the promised money that the Cabinet of Ministers has promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u170	Vassil Ivanovich, you're absolutely right, let's make suggestions, but we can't do more with the Cabinet of Ministers than we did. I think it's just the crossword puzzles that will conclude on March 26th. Please sign up, three minutes, and we'll be done. No, we've already decided on that question, what did you sign up for, you want to talk about? Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to say a few words from that bill that's voted and not supported, but it's typical. We are again and again asked to make agreements and laws to approve them on the ratification of these credit agreements, as in this case Ukrainian. between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The first phase took place, by 20 million bracelets, we'd like to see that this was the first phase that was experience, positive and negative for this phase to happen, what report to get. And now we're told that we've already spent 20, let's take another 20 and then we'll figure it out. It's not human, it's not governmental. Therefore, such conditions cannot be defined and such projects cannot be considered essentially because they are not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u172	Please, workman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! The previous speaker made a big mistake, even though he did not listen to the commentator. All the projects were successful, not enough, we've heard them over and over in the Committee on Fuel and Energy. And so this positive experience needs to be secured, this is a very cheap loan, and this is an effective ingredient for transforming us into a state. If we're having a huge energy crisis and we're rejecting a project that's very easy to implement, that means we're multiplying the economy. Dear colleagues, first of all, the communists, I urge you to vote, because this is really a normal credit line and a normal project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u174	Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u175	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we all, unfortunately, witnessed a gas attack on Ukraine. What this can lead to, we all understand very well, that millions of Ukrainian citizens are behind it, we cannot quietly observe how our people can freeze in their homes. The energy conservation problem for Ukraine is extremely acute and relevant. If we don't learn to draw the right conclusions from the gas attack on Ukraine, if we don't implement energy-saving technologies, we will always have problems that would have happened, unfortunately this winter, this year. I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, because the agreement itself is extremely important for Ukraine, for energy conservation. To bring this matter up tomorrow, because, unfortunately, there are no more deputies to make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-22-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, let us ask the committee to work and return to its consideration of this agreement. And now, you're stressing for yourself that the point is not to go back to it, because the result will be clear. Yes, dear colleagues, I would like to make an announcement that tomorrow at 9 a.m. the head of the Supreme Council, together with him, we are all invited to lay the flowers on the occasion of Motherland's Day. It'll be 8 o'clock. There'll be a bus waiting for those who want it. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 o'clock we'll be working on committees, factions and groups. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10:00 in the morning. Good luck! Thank you for the fruitful, fruitful, and productive work of today’s session.
