ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Yes, please turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:03:12]] Registered - 388 There are 388 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Please listen to information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary meetings on March 16. 52 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 24 laws and 13 regulations were passed, 11 bills and seven draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: three laws have been passed in a new edition and three laws have been repealed. Honorable Colleagues, in accordance with Article 3.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like to enroll the National MPs while I announce the MP's request. Enquiries were made: groups of deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the prevention of the intentions and actions of executive power aimed at breaking the electoral process and falsifying the results of the election of the national deputies. [[BLACKOVI, HOMOTIC, BACHTEYEVA]] I'm voting on a proposal to support the request. Please vote. Vote. [[10:05:07]] For-67 Request not supported. Adam CHICALA to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney-General, the Head of the DPA, the Head of the State Customs Service, the Head of the Board for Combating Corruption, enhancing transparency in the activities of the public authorities, improving the conditions for effective business development in accordance with the President’s decree of 18 November 2005. I'm voting on a proposal to support the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:05:53]] For-19 Dear colleagues, we did wisely yesterday when we adopted the Rules, and one of the rules of the Rules forbids us to do what Yuri Anatoliyovich and his assistants do now. Yes, there were questions: Vladimir CIBULKA to the Head of the Supreme Council for the creation of a competent commission to protect the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. Alexander ABDULLIN is responsible for carrying out the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Policy to amend the specific provisions of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, concerning the appointment of “Blackwater” payments. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the prime minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the need to review the size of the disability pension. Igora NASALICA to the Prime Minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the full water supply of the city of Ivano-Frankow region. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the disposal of the submerged area of the Bilshok city of Odessa. Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister's responsibility to finance health facilities where the children of Alcevska were in a technological accident in the city. Vassil SALIGIN to the prime minister, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Health for non-response to the MP's request to verify the legality of the management of the Kharkiv Authority and the District Council and the decision taken to privatise the assets of the state-owned enterprise “Regional Pharmacy” and to prevent the destruction of the drug system of the medical and preventive institutions and the population of the area. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the prime minister’s duties to open the hospital’s station in the village of Josephovka in the Kozyatin district of Vinnitsk. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister on the preservation of the independence of the Eupatoria seaport and on the implementation of measures to transfer cargo shipping by a porous line to the Donuzlav transport complex. SCHEWCHUKA to the prime minister's duties regarding the inadequacy of the liquidation of the State Department for the adaptation of legislation in the Ministry of Justice. Alexander MASSENKA to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate the Tavria car to the disabled of the Great Homeland War in the Luben region of Poltava. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Department for Unsatisfactory Consideration of Complaints and violation of the housing rights of residents of Surikov Street,5 in Kiev, the efforts of the management of the Open Association of Shareholders to evict them without the provision of other housing. Anatolysa MOROZA to the Prime Minister's duty to abuse the leadership of the Open Shareholders' Company “PreservationBlannergo” in the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision “To move to the sole tariffs on electricity released to consumers”. Vladimír CIBULKA to perform the Prime Minister's duties regarding the illegal actions of representatives of the Open Shareholder Society, Lvivenergo. Valentin SAVIĆKO to the prime minister’s duties to transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev and to complete the construction of a multi-profession hospital in the Desnjan district. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister's duties as prime minister on the rightfulness of the allocation of land of the Mezin National Natural Park to private hunting farms. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline to the village of Slobdek Kodim district of Odessa. Alexander ABDULLIN to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Policy regarding the request of residents of the Ostróskie region of the Plains region to amend the Cabinet of Ministers Order “To Increase the Size of Assistance to Individual Citizens” of July 26, 1996 No. 832. Victor DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for violating labour law on the part of the Chief Labour Administration and Social Protection of the population of the Zitomir District State Administration in the transfer of employees of the Zitomir City District Service Centre for Pensioners and Lonely Unemployed Citizens from the position of social workers to social workers with a significant reduction in wages. Ivan YVANCHO to the Prime Minister's office to provide a car with manual control for the disabled of the first group of residents of the village of Krichovo Tachiv district of Zacarpathia. MICHELLA’S COMMUNICATION to the prime minister’s responsibilities as regards the state of the budget for gasification of the population in the NovoMoskov constituency No.38. Anatolysa Rachánské to the Prime Minister’s responsibility to ensure the fulfilment of the Ministry’s last commitment to unconditionally repay 5 million of the debt owed to the institution of the “28 UNR” for the work carried out in 2002. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the prime minister, head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the increase in the purchase price of gas for enterprises. Vassil Hara to the Prime Minister's duty to ignore the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on social policy and work since 8 February 2006 on the unsatisfactory activity of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Mr. Wojša to the prime minister, head of the Herson District State Administration on the inaction of the public authorities after the restoration of the village of Tarasovka, which was affected by the fire. Anatoly of the scribe to the prime minister, head of the Poltava District State Administration for the gasification of the village of Varakuti Kremenchuck. Leonida KRAVČUKA to the Prime Minister's obligation to repay the debt to the structural units of the railway administration “Urzlzalnica” under the contract for the delivery of diagnostic equipment to the firm “Dormedatlament”. Oleg Blochin to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Legality and Beneficiality of the Restructuring of the State Enterprise “Donetsk Regional Scientific and Production Centre for Standardization, Metrology and Certification”. Anatholic to the prime minister’s responsibilities in computerizing the organs of the local government of the Hersonian region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the Prime Minister's duties to implement the Act on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval as a Transit State in 2002-2010. Maria MARKUS to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the DPA on the baseless refusal to count the costs that were paid as a tax by the owners of the means of transport through the shares commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine” by the private enterprise “Agrotech” of the village of Bustino Tachiv district of Zakarpat region. Vladimir MAZURENKA to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for ignoring citizens' appeals regarding the unsatisfying condition of the No. 29 Coathouse of the City of Odessa. Efima FIXA to the Prime Minister's duty to remove the imbalance in pension insurance for certain categories of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster following the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers on 27 December 2005 of Decree No. 1293. Ms. Aleksandra KARENKA to the Prime Minister's duty to violate the legislation on payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act to the teaching staff of the Donetsk Region. Victor MUSIJAKI to perform the duties of Prime Minister, the Attorney General, regarding the situation surrounding the closed-circuit company Financial and Industrial Company. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the prime minister's task of developing and approving the procedure for granting credit for the implementation of investment projects for the accumulation of energy-efficient technologies in the field of economics, technology for the production of alternative sources of fuel. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the prime minister, Head of the U.S.S.A., for the abuse in the state-wide sponge titanium market. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the prime minister's responsibility to finance the work of the 2000-2005 flood management and to assist the inhabitants of the village of Rostok in the region of Czerniewice. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the prime minister’s duties regarding the gasification of sociocultural objects and the homes of residents of the village of Novokyyevka Kalanczyk. Maria MARKUS to the prime minister's responsibility for compensation for budgetary expenses, the expense of residents of the village of Kohlya Tachiv district of Zakarpatsk district for the construction of the gas pipeline. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNB to prevent the threat of national security in the military sphere, which is to reduce the resilience of the Armed Forces through the bankruptcy of the Kyiv Repair Plant “Radians”. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers for the lack of funds from the state budget allocated to financial support for the production of plant production in the District of Brezniv. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to perform the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko to open the Museum of Academics of Agatangel Crimean in the city of Zvenigradc of Cherkas region. Mr. Alexander Goluba is responsible for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in the area of the payment of the Great Homeland War veteran by telephone. A group of deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko's duties regarding the reform of the higher education system in accordance with the requirements of the Bologna Process and the measures to maintain the high level of training of professionals. [[COMAR, VERNIDOUBOV, ZUBANOV]] MICHELLE RUDIC to the vice - prime minister of Kirilenko’s task of financing the purchase of goods for the care, development and implementation of a comprehensive program for the rehabilitation of weary patients. John MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the long - term investigation into the city of Uzhgrad of a criminal case involving the theft of collective property on a particularly large scale. SERGEY KASJANOVA to the Attorney General on the verification of legality in the process of carrying out the State Program for the introduction of hazardous products of the “Danniprova Chemical Plant” plant into an ecologically safe state and operations for the transport of soil containing uranium ore, near the villages of Taromsk and Gorski Dnipropetrovsk. JANUARY to the Attorney General for the verification of the beating of a citizen of Antonov in the investigation office of SIA No. 13 of Kiev. Vladimir PUZAKOVA to the Attorney General about the situation in the village of Dobroveleckovsk, which was caused by the dismantling of the sugar plant. Helen BONDARENKO to the Attorney General for the purpose of verifying the validity of the persecution of a citizen named Belozerov by law enforcement authorities. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the verification of the location of the Makarov-1 military garrison of Kyiv area of the U.S. CIA secret prison. Anatolia Domanski and Volodymira PUZAKOVA to the Attorney-General for the suppression of land-pile owners' rights by the tenant of the private enterprise “Goodness” in the region of Novomirgorod. Larissa VAZANKO to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the purpose of examining the grounds for the criminal offence No.24-250 and for complying with the law of law enforcement officials in the conduct of the pretrial investigation. Ms. Helen BONDARENKO VALERIA CHICHKOWA to the Attorney General on the legality of appointment as Head of the Department of Aviation Medicine of the State Aviation Service. Dmitry PAVLIČKA to the Attorney-General on the facts of unlawful interference in religious observances to the adherents of the Ostroga Church of the Holy Resurrection. Igor GRINIVA to the Attorney General on the status of criminal investigation against officials of the Open Shareholders Association Kyiv EnergoBud. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General for investigating the illegal seizure of the Desenka trade base on Truhanovo Island, part-time rent for land rental by the Ukrainian Commercial Club and illegal construction in the territory. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs's responsibility to verify the business activity of the closed-circuit company “Tect Investment Company” for the non-payment of dividends to shareholders. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General on the artificial conditions of bankruptcy and the liquidation of the “Cribob” agro-firm of the Trieste district of Suma. Jaroslav KERDZYORA to the Attorney General for lack of procuratorial response to the violation of the Constitution, the decision of the Kharkiv City Council to grant Russian regional status. Vladimir Pekhoti and Alexander KICELOVA to the Attorney General for the protection of the constitutional rights and legitimate interests of the citizen of Paul. Deputies' groups to the Attorney-General on the breach of the payment of the debt under Article 57 of the Education Act in the Drogobic region of Lviv. [[PROSCURATS, BOARDS, SHORTS]] Deputies' groups to the Attorney-General on the illegal persecution of members of the law enforcement agencies of the citizen of Elena Bondarenko. [[RIMARUK, ZUBANOV, LAPIN, AND OTHERS]] Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for the protection of property rights to the land of the inhabitants of the Poznaki-Š city of Kyiv. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on the non-participation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the scheme for the destruction of Ukretschflot's shareholder shipping company. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the state of criminal investigation into the kidnapping of a citizen named Lactionova. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General on the fraudulent actions of Racin's citizen regarding the illegal appropriation of grains for services provided to a limited company responsible for AgroTech Union. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the laws governing the circulation of narcotic drugs and the illegal activity of pharmacies in Lviv. [[WALLEN WALLODIMIR, SHURMA, KARENKO]] Dmitra Świataša to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the arbitrary capture and illegal use of land in Kiev, a limited liability society called “Deva Ko”. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the inaction of law enforcement authorities in bringing responsibility for a coup d'état in the pursuits of Colonel Trooticko’s militia. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General on the legality of the alienation of cooperative property in the Borispil district of Kiev. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the crisis situation in the village of Salkovo Heivoron district of Kirovograd, the cause of which is the destruction of the entire property complex of the sugar plant. Dmitry PAVLIČKA to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Kostusev. Larissa VACHENKO to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs on the rental of the premises of the International Charity Foundation “Sharepta”. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the protection of the property rights of the State and the return of a building on the street of Volodymyrska, 41 in Kiev, to state property and the subsequent transfer of the National Academy of Sciences. [[JUCHNOVIAN GAME, RODIONOV, BAUER]] A group of deputies to the Attorney General, the High Council of Justice, the Minister of Justice’s duties in breach of the laws allowed in the discharge of the Deputy Minister of Defence of Muntián. [[DENMARK, HORNIK, ROBERT]] Mr. KRUKA to the Attorney General for the protection of the interests of a Ukrainian citizen. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for deliberately delaying the investigation of a criminal case. Vassili SALIGIN to the Attorney-General for improper response to the parliamentary request to verify the legality of the management of the Kharkiv Authority and the District Council and the decision taken to privatize the property of the state-owned enterprise “Regional Pharmacy”. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Defence's duties regarding the legality of the sale of the Central Military Sanatorium “Yaltinski” in Yalta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney General for the transfer of a nursing home in Kiev to the communal property of the Pecher district. Anatoly of the Writer General to the Head of the Board of Directors of the Department of Labour and Criminal Procedure against the Director of the Biology School of the Plains region of Kushner. Igor Schurmi to the Attorney General for evicting a citizen of the Ramese resident of Ternopol from his apartment. Group of Deputies to the Attorney-General on the gross violation of legislation by individual officials of public authorities and local self-government. [[KRAVCHUK, GAVRISH, SHUFRIC, AND OTHERS]] Teams of deputies to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Health, the President of the Academy of Medical Sciences on the circumstances and causes of the death of a citizen of Petrova and her unborn son, who took place at the hospital of the Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics, and Gynecology of the Academy of Medical Sciences. [[Richer, Kirichenko, SAFIULIN, and others]] Vassil NARAVI to the Attorney General on the verification of information published in the media regarding the new circumstances of the “cassette scandal”. Tamara Proscuratou and Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the illegal activity of the citizen of Horobec in the position of the village head of Kozin. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General for the verification of the legality of decisions of the Komsomol City Council and the Dmitry Rural Council of the Poltava Region, which resulted in the loss of land quotas for 376 residents of the village of Dmitrovka. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, for the prosecution of police officers who violated the constitutional and civil rights of the city of Kyiv Afonina. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General on the legality of the decision of the Squire City Council regarding the removal of land from the city of Matviychuk. MICHELLE to the Attorney General on the legality of the alienation of cooperative property in Borispol. Group of Deputies to the Attorney-General on the involvement of officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Ivano-Frankow area of criminal investigation, which was violated by the fact that Avers Society's goods and materials were being stolen. [[The rabbit, the storm, the suffrage.]] Vladimir PETREN has been responsible for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the irresponsibility of some of the medical personnel at Suma’s third hospital. ROBERT to the Minister of Health’s responsibility to conduct an official investigation into Iliasov’s case. MICHELLA’S DIVISION, Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, on the negative impact of UMC’s transponder on the health of medical personnel at Dobropel’s Central District Hospital. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice's duty to execute the court's decision on the payment of arrears by a limited-liability company “Agro-firma Alliance” for the benefit of residents of the village of Mašovka Poltava district. Leonida SVATKOVA to perform the duties of the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Head of the United Nations on possible misuse of funds, their purposeless and ineffective use by officials of the Kyiv University of Law. Jurya KRIVORCHKA to the Minister of Transport’s duties and liaison regarding the unsatisfactory situation of bicycle routes in the cities of Ukraine. Andrija POLITA to the Minister of Internal Affairs’s duties to protect the rights of a citizen named Demchuk. Igora JEREMEEVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the family’s housing problem at the Raven City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Mateusz. Oleg BILORUS to the Secretary of Defense for the distribution of military personnel’s apartments in the Uzhgorodsk garrison. EUGEN KYRILČUKA is responsible for the Ministry of Health’s responsibility to provide care for diabetics with medical supplies in the Volin region. Olga KOBETZ to the Minister of Internal Affairs’s duties regarding vandalism regarding the monument to Taras Shevchenk in the city of Tokmak Zaporezki district. Mikli Sokirka to the Minister of Justice's duties in connection with the violation of legislation by the Executive Service of the Vinicka Region in relation to the manufacturing and trading business “Friendship” of the Bershad region of Winnitsk Region. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs’s responsibilities regarding the inactivity of the Ministry’s organs regarding the provision of constitutional and legal rights for foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine. Igor ŠURMI to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, for the unlawful conduct by the employees of the Lviv Regional Organisation of the Socialist Party of the collection of citizens' documents and funds with a view to granting an appropriate category of citizens the status of “children of war”. Victor MUSIJAKI to perform the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the misconduct of police officers in the Chernigiv region. Vasilla ADRAVIA to the Health Ministry’s responsibility as to the possibility of free treatment for a severely ill child living in the city of Lviv. THE Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in relation to dangerous chemical stockpiles flooded more than twenty years ago in the waterfront of the Crimea Peninsula, such as Alushta, Yalta, Aluupka, Balaklava, Sevastopol, Lukull. YEUGENA HIERNIKOVA to the Minister of Education and Science’s duties regarding the provision of the Ivano-Frankov boarding school by means of the “School Bus” program. Alexander TKALENKA to the Minister of Economics’ responsibility to pay compensation to the population affected by submerged areas in the Herson region. Mr. Mikoli Sokirka to the Minister of Justice's responsibility to violate legislation by the executive branch of the Vinicki district in relation to the business and manufacturing company “Electron” in the Bershadi district. Jury CARMAZINA and Igor ŠAROVA to the Secretary-General of RNBO, the Prosecutor-General, the Head of the National Bank for Guaranteeing Banking Investments, Ensuring the Stability of the Banking System, Performing Commitments by Intercontinental Bank Shares, Guarantee, Kiev Universal Bank to Investors. Joseph WINSKI AND Leonid SERGIENKA to the Secretary of the RNBO, the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General on the legality and compatibility of the national security decisions on removal from the property complex of the State-owned enterprise “East Mining and Enriching Combine” of the Novocostinian Uranium ore family. Jury CARMAZINA to the Secretary of the RNBO, Head of the Board of Directors, Prosecutor General on the cessation of violations of the constitutional rights of founders and members of the labour group of the company “Dasco” for entrepreneurial activities, work and property of foreign non-resident citizens of Ukraine, individual deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Kiev as a result of unwarranted illegal checks on the enterprise, criminal prosecution of its officials for the purpose of controlling the enterprise Mr Wojša to the Head of the Donetsk District State Administration to ensure the proper living conditions for the employees of the “Octjabra Mine” mine. MICHELLE TO THE Head of the Donetsk district administration for water supply in the village of Novodmitrovka, in the district of Constantine, and the restoration of heat in the vocational and technical school, 147 cities in Artemovska. A group of deputies to the Head of the Board of Directors, the Attorney-General, to verify the validity of the assignment of out-of-office and other military titles, the legality of obtaining the status of a participant in hostilities by the Chief of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Litwin. [[BOKIE, MALINOVSKI, G. OMELČENKO]] JOURIA CARMAZINA Igor SHAROVA to the Secretary of the RNBO, the prime minister and the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General, on the immediate elimination of bribery and harassment by medical officials of public and municipal health institutions, such as the Kharkiv district cancer dispenser. Andrija POLITA to the Head of the Qualifications Commission of the General Courts of the Kyiv Appeals District regarding the opening of disciplinary proceedings against the judge of the Obolon District Court of Kiev, Constantine Vasalati. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Bilozer District State Administration of the Herson Region on the gasification of the village of Shirok Balka Bilozer district. [[VASILEV, ISAIAH, KYSELOV, AND OTHERS]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Head of the State Customs Service for the customs clearance of the PVC window profiles imported into Ukraine. MICHAYLA VOLINZA TO the Head of the Supreme Court for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for a violation of the terms of the hearing sent to this court of a cassational complaint. Leonida Tanjuka to the Kiev City Head for the illegal privatisation of Shevchenkov, the district council of Kyiv, of auxiliary housing on the street of Honchar. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Dnipropetrov District State Administration for the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants of the village of Nova Patrova, and for the prejudice of the underwater process. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of the State Customs Office for the violation of customs rules by the employees of the Lugansk Region’s Old Town Customs. Valery BORZOVA to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the baseless increase in housing and utility tariffs through the Nemishev Village Council of the Borodian Region. FIXA to the Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the inactivity of the authorities regarding the introduction of a dormitory on the street of the Kamiyanka Dniprovska District of Zaporezki in accordance with sanitary and technical requirements. VADIM MISSURA to Kyiv City’s head for the rehabilitation of Children’s Hospital No. 6 in Kiev Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the inaction of the authorities with regard to the work of repairs and reconstruction of the city’s cultural building in Tokmak. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Board on the provision of information on the availability of an individual licence for the conduct of foreign exchange transactions by Yulia Timoshenko and others in the acquisition of the shares of the offshore Cyprus firm “Somali-interprises-limited”, which was involved in the dirty affairs of the opal prime minister Paul Lazarenko. Ivan YVANCHO to the Director-General of Cruise Station for the construction of a passenger landing platform in the village of Podvinograd of Zakarpat. Teams of deputies to the prosecutor in Chernigiv district for the return of Oster School of Public Education No. 1 to the name of the chastity poet Céspel. [[COMAR, SAMOFAL, ISAIAH, AND OTHER]] Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Director-General of the State Railway Administration, Skruzalnica, on the cancellation of the decision to cancel the movement of trains Nos. 6861 and No. 6862 Chernigs – Nedančiči, Nedančiči – Chernigów. John YVANCHO to the head of VAT’s “Scarletelekom” governing the establishment of a digital automatic telephone station in the village of Podvinograd of the district of Zacarpathia. Left GLUCHIVIH to the Head of Kiev City Administration on the need to speed up the restoration of the work of the Small Kitchen Company in Kiev on the street of Electrotechnics, 10. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General, in connection with the inaction of the central executive authorities in establishing the real state of Corpan’s citizenship, which since September 2004 has been the personal physician of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy, now the President of Ukraine. Thus, honourable colleagues received 140 parliamentary requests, including by factions: "Ukraine's Regions" - 13, Communists of Ukraine - 24, Block Timoshenko - 11, People's Party - 7, Our Ukraine - 19, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 7, Groups of the People's bloc of Lithuania - 5, Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, Groups of Rebirth - 4, People's Movement of Ukraine - 9, Reforms and Orders - 3, non-fractional - 5. [[United]] Please show the list, highlight it. We're 30 minutes away from reporting and texting. Please, Oleg Belarus. Get ready for Dmitri Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Today is the last day of the final session of this convening, and I think the Supreme Council will proudly end this difficult but productive period when it meets the demands of citizens and removes the intrusiveness of the local council. Today, the bill is consolidated, produced by the committee, and all factions, the factions' leaders, except for the communists and the “Regions of Ukraine”. This gives us reason to vote for inclusion and for resolving the issue. I ask you to put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of a bill to remove the inviolability of members of the local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u3	Yeah, after that line. Yes, Rudkowski gives Bokovsky the word. Please. Get ready. Anastasia is passing on to Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u4	I want to inform the chairman that I also have the word of a member of our faction, Eugene Filindash. That's why I have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u5	Yes, please, six minutes. Now, wait. Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u6	He's the eighth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, these days: yesterday, the day before yesterday, a number of compromising materials were published on the Internet, which, among other things, introduce me to the center of a cassette scandal. This is a despicable thing that he confirms to a half-past MP from the faction of the National Party of Ukraine, organized for a very clear purpose: to disorient the people of Ukraine in the events that are taking place in Ukraine. So I clearly and clearly state that this is all a lie organized by the fact that, you know, elections are coming, and people who are involved in the organization of the kidnapping of George Gongadze and his destruction want to write their guilt down on someone else. But in this context, I want to remind you that these are dirty technologies, and for this power, and this is what the People's Block of Lithuania means, there's nothing new. It's just that the games of hoochmism, which has always been used as a compromise and a lie and a bribe to their constituents, and the destruction of their opponents. So I want to show all of Ukraine what methods the People's Block of Lithuania is using to repeat these dirty technologies. In all the places in Kiev where the tents of this block are located, the people are offering a range of medicines, including here they are, please. There are medicines here to keep someone from having a headache, so that they don't have a hurricane in their stomachs, stomachs, and so on. You understand. And then the tiles, the matches, and so on. You realize it's called bribery. It's officially fixed. Well, I'm not showing these things, that's understandable. And this is one thing: that the Bushmen in the election today want to take a rematch in any way. And the compromise that is being dumped on the Internet is a weapon of this order. But before you blame anyone, you need to see who you are. Who is the leader of this block, Vladimir Litwin. Vladimir Litwin, you know, he's already the Hero of Ukraine, and whoever he is is is both an academic and so on. Everyone knows what it was like. He became the hero of Ukraine, not the true democratic Ukraine. And everyone knows that. But not everyone knows otherwise that this person has passed the shameful path of catching reflexes in his own time. I can show you all over Ukraine, too, here's his report. Report to General Radchenk, then head of the Ukrainian Security Service. When he was the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Authority and was elected a national deputy, he asks to be recognized as a participant in the fighting. What are the merits? It turns out he flew to Yugoslavia for a few hours, and that's what he thinks he was involved in fighting. It's a disgrace the world has never seen. I have a dead mother who built a railroad during a famous Finnish war, but she never, with the right, even turned. When I even got her a report from the Ministry of Transport and Construction that she was a part of the fighting, she never did, just conscientious people from the people never do. Never did Boris Ilchi Oliynik, who was in the trenches with the Serbs in Yugoslavia. And here, you see, the official flew there -- and he's already a fighter, and now he's the Hero of Ukraine. It's a disgrace the world has never seen. And Mr. Litwin didn't just go there. Everyone knows his work path. He was a lecturer, assistant rector at the University of Kiev. And then suddenly he became an assistant to the president, and from the senior lieutenant, he suddenly becomes a major, passing the title of captain. Well, almost like Yuri Gagarin, who flew into space, you know that. And it went on like butter. By bypassing all permissible terms, he becomes a lieutenant colonel, then a colonel, well, then, you see, and a participant in combat. Well, you can see for yourself what it was all about. It's not just a catchy reflex. Here, of course, there is vanity, there is glory, there is all things. Well, he wanted to be the colonel of the Russian Emperor Nicholas II, you know, or maybe the Greek colonels, the hell he knows who he wants to be. But what is this for? Who's that? Is it moral? Can such a person claim to be the head of another nation’s bloc? These are actions that run counter to national morality, they're actions that conflict with the law at all. But I understand that laws are not written for Bushmism, and that is why Vladimir Litwin has united everything around him most repugnant of the Quts. I think that the people will appreciate this properly and in the elections they will give “out of the basket” to those self-pronouncers who want to sit on the hill of the Ukrainian people today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u9	Yes, Anastasiav. Anastasiav passes the word Mishuri. Zubanov then gives the word to Komar. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u10	Dear compatriots, 15 years ago in a referendum on 17 March, more than 70% of the citizens of the USSR expressed their support for the preservation of the updated Federation of Soviet Republics, and more than 80% of the voters of Ukraine saw their state in its composition. And this is a perfectly legitimate result, since the Soviet Union under Communist rule has become the second state in the world to completely eliminate unemployment and illiteracy, a system of free education and health care, the protection of motherhood, childhood and veterans, which has reached the lowest level of crime in the world, ensures the overall availability of life - sustaining material and spiritual benefits. Soviet Ukraine, with only one and a half percent of the world’s population, produced up to ten percent of the world’s steel, iron, tractors, sugar, and coal. More loud than anyone was in their time, by the way, the motorists. Today we live in an independent state in which three quarters of Ukrainian citizens voted on December 1, 1991. How can we explain such a sharp turn? To my profound conviction, it was a human desire to protect ourselves from the independence of the humpback restructuring, which allowed elite intelligents to rob socialism, nationalists to have a bloody rematch in some republics, and Shadowwalkers, along with a recolored party-state nomenclature, to approach the plundering of their people. Today, cruelly deceived people say that we have something they did not mean to have. The clan regime, the ugly economy, the division of the people by territorial, property, religious, language, cultural and moral decline, the pear scandals, the tuberculosis epidemic, the paying toilets, the beauty queens and the homeless. Three presidents and 15 governments are selling Ukraine. “Creebrisstal” is an Hindu, and to whom is the Quartleek, the railway, the Kharkiv turboat, the Odessa porter? In turn, the President announced the entry into NATO, the creation of a nuclear trash can and the sale of Ukrainian land. And do people not see who pushes them into the chasm and who wants and can protect them? According to the center of Razumkov, half of our citizens would like to live in the Soviet Union because, in fact, the Soviet Union was the highest degree of statehood in Ukraine. And, if it is fair to follow the will of the great Ukrainian poet Vasil Simonek, "Maybe everything in the world can be chosen by a son, you can't just choose the Motherland." Then everyone in this room must proudly say, “I was born in the Soviet Union! I'm done in the USSR!"
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u11	Please, Zubanov will pass on to Mikola Komaru, prepare Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u12	Mikola Komar, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The members of the Party of the Regions are closely monitoring the implementation of their new combination of Krivorozstal's investment commitments. In particular, the statement made by Oleg Nemchenko, president of the Coxochemical Production Professor, that the current leadership of the Mital Steel-Horse Horn combination had left three thousand people unemployed. According to him, the new owners of the former pride of the Ukrainian industry stopped the reconstruction and construction of Coke batteries Nos. 3 and 4, which began in 2004, with an estimated 710 million U.S. Grieve. Contractors'workers are removed from the production site. As a result, 3,000 inhabitants of the Horn of the Curve, members of the metal trade union, and miners lost their jobs. Today this production site reminds Chernobyl, a union leader reported. He said that today, in fact, the recruitment of new staff was terminated. Oleg Nemchenko reported that no new staff were hired at the place of self-retirement or retirement. In the plans of the new owner of the combination. The 25th percentage reduction in the number of corporate employees is one of the points recorded two months ago. In total, for five years, Mitala must be rid of 45,000. and how many Ukrainians there will be. Equally relevant is the issue of timely wage increases for the combined workers. The owner of the crusader's methog combination refuses to specify the scheme for a step-by-step salary increase for workers. This was announced by the chairman of the trade union committee of the Krivorozski “GOKA” Anatoly Menšov. It appears that the issue of wage increases is not relevant to the owner at all. The marketing policy of the enterprise raises questions. Thus, the Ukrainian Association of Metal Merchants accuses Mittal of refusing to take consumer interests into account and to place products on the domestic market of Ukraine. According to the Association, today all the production of the metcombinant is exported abroad while the early third of the metal was delivered to the internal market. It seems that Ukraine has been deceived as a result of the privatization of the combination. The country and the people lost a surplus and the money from sale was not clear. It is time for the President to explain to his “little Ukrainians” why the State does not perform its functions to protect its citizens against unscrupulous foreign investors. The process of carrying out the investments in the Krivoroztali region will be under the control of the Party of the Regions' deputy faction. This has been and is in the current council, and so will the new Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u13	Masenko Alexander, prepare for Colonyari. He passes the word, get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u14	Dear radio listeners, dear voters. You've all heard Boki react to what someone once said to him. And on February 24th, he declared for some unfathomable reason my involvement in the collapse of the kolpspore that I once led. It's strange why for six years he didn't mention it, but before the election, "something shot him in the side" and he brought it up. That's the way he is, wherever he's not supposed to be, but he'll stick to it on some side. On this point, I do not want to have a discussion in the absence of time, and I am asking for the answer to this question from the “orange” head of the Reichs, where we can see to which I transferred the farm in 1999, and I even ask that it be printed in the Villages. But since the question is being raised, I must say that the Colgs destroyed the Socialists themselves when their leader “sold” the Constitution, which eliminated the collective form of property. Agriculture continues to collapse both in Ukraine and in the area under the direction of socialists. You're still selling out the state, even though the holding fund is headed by a socialist. I was approached by socialists in the Global Region and was told that they would not vote for the socialist because Boki, who in his own time destroyed such a powerful and promising party as the "Protection of the peasants" he led. In Horov, socialists also say they won't vote in favour of the ICJ, because a former district socialist has collapsed the area and is now afraid to even fly to the district council in his area, and he's going to be on the ICJ list in the nearby Seminowe district -- cheating on one of them, and now he thinks he'll be able to fool his neighbors. The head of the district’s administration, also a socialist, worked for only five months and retired a civil servant, and that the area continues to fall under the direction of another socialist, there is no reason for this. In Gadzach, socialists say that the former Kuchmew leader of the Rajdjad, who is involved in the falsification of the presidential elections, is included in the list. According to Boko, led by Bulba, Poltavščina, it is the first trinity of economic performance last year. Indeed, man’s imagination is without limits. It is not in vain to say that insolence is the second happiness. In 2005, only five areas allowed for a decrease in the volume of industrial production, including Poltavščina. In terms of mortality in the area, 25,000, oncosa and tuberculosis, really, Poltavstina in the first trinity. The advertisements say that socialists are against rising prices and tariffs for residential services, and the Bulba is the initiator of the District Council's decision to increase these tariffs. To deceive people, why turn on the bubbles and fool people again. It's easier to fool people, but I want everyone to understand that it's not the tupography to teach and not the pastels to write, it's something to think and do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u15	The Coloniari renders the word Overseer. Prepare the Lockman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u16	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleague Bokomu and his Socialist Party. All that has been said about Vladimir Mihajlovich is the official response of the Ukrainian Security Service. A complete lie, a desire to insinuate dirt, but you live on it. I'll go back to what I wanted to talk about, what I was asked to talk about. As a national MP, I was addressed by a trade union organization in the Luhansk region. They write that, unfortunately, article 77 of the Basic Health Law is not being implemented because it was already adopted in November 1992 to deal with such requirements as the revision of the single tariff network coefficients, the payment of an annual salary in the amount of the health allowance. Remuneration for seniority in traineeships, annual remuneration for honest and good work, increased wages for rural health care by 25 per cent, and benefits for utilities to the same rural health care professionals. It is a honour, as it is written literally in this statement, to honour a number of deputies that they have returned to this issue. Today, however, health workers' trade unions are absolutely correct in saying that many of the issues raised in this legislation are not being met. And I'm going to read again what's written here. They say there's no money, you don't have to be seven yarns in your forehead to get this news out. It turns out that there is money for elections and re-elections, to join NATO, to provide serious assistance to Georgia. Yes! Challenges are important. But there seems to be no room for health workers in this line of work. These are not only inappropriate attitudes towards workers in the industry, but also for all citizens who need to improve their health. There is no investment in the development of industries in the decent content of workers, and it is difficult to wait for worthwhile benefits. On behalf of the employees of the Luhansk Trade Union, medical personnel of the city of Luhanska, on behalf of your constituents, please ask the officials of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Minfina and so on. Chairman of the Health Professionals. Here I ask the question to the authorities, including those who like to talk, that's how bad everyone else is. Honey! Dear executive power! You have a legislative framework, you have a proposal for a parliamentary faction, including the Lithuanian People's bloc already adopted in the 2006 budget, and our proposals for health development for the future. How can you do something that will not be ashamed of our health to the people who work there? Regrettably, we see that part of the executive power today even manages to distance itself from it, saying that they are almost in opposition. That's why I'm talking again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u17	Yes. The word “solomatin ” is used by the locksmith. Please. David’s word to Zarubinsky is to prepare Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! In view of the fact that one of the orange members of the interim commission of inquiry of Bereszowski-Jushchenko in the media involved this week, there has been a widespread misinformation about the results of the commission's activities, I have been forced to provide the Supreme Council of Ukraine with balanced documented information on this subject. The commission has, in its commission, evidence that, apart from the officially open, required electoral legislation of the candidate to President Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, all the main political figures of the orange coalition had their money during the presidential election campaign, a community that filled in as many as possible, including from abroad. And they spent on the needs of their own choices. It's known money in envelopes or boxes of xerox. The interim commission of inquiry has copies from Mr. Berezowski of three bilateral documents that reveal the mechanism for entering the money into Ukraine. In this regard, I made a proper report right from this rostrum on December 2nd, after returning from London. According to evidence and explanations in public speeches, Mr. Beresowski provided funds to representatives of the Ukrainian side at the request of Yushchenek Viktor Andriyovich himself for the promotion of democracy and the construction of civil society structures. This euphimism conceals the use of funds to support the orange revolution, primarily the activities of the so-called uncensored opposition electronic and print media for the benefit of an interested candidate to the President of Ukraine. And now, by Carter Ruk, who is in charge of Mr. Beresowski's mission to the English court, a lawsuit has been filed with Mr. Zwania and Trelyakov on charges of false testimony and fraud totalling 22.9 million. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} And for that, they are lit up, according to English legislation, to eight years in prison. The commission has reason to believe that this is how other members of the orange coalition, especially Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, could receive the money. So the commission was exposed to a pre-planned and tested shadow-based mechanism for fund-raising from abroad for electoral campaigns outside the election official accounts of President Yushchenka's candidate. That is the truth that no one can hide. So let's get this orange call out of here. And I urge the voters to vote for the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Chinese to vote for the flaming Communist Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u19	David’s word to Zarubinsky Oleg is to be prepared for Klimpus. Don't get excited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear compatriots, Ukrainian citizens Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. History knows the moments when the inner tension in society is a critical sign of mistrust, hostility, and hatred. You can pretend that there is order and peace in Ukraine, you can talk about success and victory, you can close your eyes to problems, but will this lead to the truth? It's time to stop blaming each other and find out who's responsible for our troubles. Those who continue to divide Ukrainian citizens into theirs and foreigners, speculating on secondary things and forgetting the central slogan of our national being, the unity of the country above all. The party slogans, the ambitions of politicians, populism, demagogism and the surrounding mess, I'm not talking about lying anymore, I'm talking about giving in to one principle -- everything for Ukraine's future. Not Ukraine within Galicina or Ukraine within Donbas, but one large, strong, authoritative, prosperous Ukraine in which every citizen lives worth living. You can cut out an excess percentage of votes in the elections and lose Ukraine. Is this the way to politicians, and more so, to statesmen. Too often the interests of the people and the interests of Ukraine are ignored. Too often laws are ignored, and too often over the law, and conscience dominates political purpose. That's why Ukrainian politicians have to follow the doctors principle -- no harm. We can speak in tongues, but we will share thoughts and desires. We can pray and sing in different ways. But our prayers and our expectations will apply to the same thing. The modern world gives us examples of reconciliation of different interests within one state for one purpose: the future. This is both Switzerland and Canada. Whether it is worth ignoring the possibility of turning Ukraine into Eastern European Switzerland, whether it will be more comfortable for the Ukrainians to live in their regional and weakened community. Let's think about how to save Ukraine. Let's think about what it takes for both the Dutchman and the Harkian and the Chinese and the Levite and the people of Crimea to feel that they belong to one great nation, let us see Ukraine in all its variety. The pressing issues of modern times need to be addressed, not by mutual accusations, but by compromising the atmosphere of mutual mistrust and hostility, but by negotiating, finding compromises, and consensus. We need to seek understanding, understanding is to be the foundation of our existence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Perhaps at this peace - loving performance, we would finish the session today? Please, Klimpus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We have embarked on a decisive stage in the life of our nation. Nine days later, Ukrainian citizens will answer questions of national importance: European democracy or electoral populism, economic recovery, or clan redistribution. I believe that the citizens of Ukraine will find faithful and wise answers to these questions. From the very beginning of the country's election race, once again, as in previous elections, we are being tried to get involved at any cost in the East-West front line, the EP or NATO, forgetting about the country's restoration, the economic stability and well-being of the Ukrainians. As the elections neared, the Rebirth Party fully experienced political pressure and the use of dirty pre-election technologies. To those who have used the black pear against the young, rather popular and powerful Rebirth Party, we are going to Parliament to protect the workers of all sectors from actions and statements by irresponsible politicians who, while in power, have submitted a bill to privatise 30 of the most important railway undertakings. And then the opposition convinces everyone that they are against the privatisation of the “districts”. The irresponsibility of claims for privatization of this area has raised concerns for railways under the Supreme Council. The Rebirth Party claims it will be for the protection of both railways and millions of passengers. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is nearing the end of its mandate, we claim that the legislative initiatives of the members of the Rebirth Party have laid the foundation for the well-being of the Ukrainian people, the economic growth of the regions, the stable functioning of the transport system. We also want to make sure that the future Supreme Council understands the importance for Ukraine of implementing a rapid train movement project on the railways of Ukraine. The construction of the Besquito Tunnel will enable fast and inexpensive road construction and a transport system to join Europe. In particular, I would like to stress the need for future attention to the development of so-called depressed regions, including the mountain regions of Ukraine. It is necessary to continue and in the coming years to provide real and reliable funding for a comprehensive programme of eco-economic and social development of the Mountain Rakhovščina, Mountain Tajtovščina and other mountain areas, which will enable our citizens to experience the active assistance of the State. In a sense of responsibility for Ukraine’s fate, the faction of the political party “Rebirth” refers to all voters — choose patriots, select professionals capable of protecting the interests of citizens, not the interests of business clans, choose your future rebirth of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u23	Yeah, now, now, there's gonna be lines. We're done talking. We have two petitions for dissatisfaction with the answers to parliamentary questions. Please, Eugene Filindash. Prepare Olga Kobetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u24	Eugene Filindash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear chairman, national deputies, radio listeners! Today's so-called “fathers” of Kiev, who are now fascinated by the pre-election struggle to make promises of a happy life and a solution to all the problems of China, promise not to ignore anyone, but apparently only after the elections. The question is, Why is it that now, in power, the problems of chimpanzees are not solved? I was approached by a group of the Kyiv District Library for Youth. This is the only universal scientific library in the Kyiv region for young people. The thing is, the head of the Cave Administration, Anatoly Kovalenko, who, by the way, is the leader of the People's Party of Lithuania in Kiev and everywhere, stresses that his experience has become part of the People's Block of Lithuania program, that he is a professional, active propagandist of the idea of a party of capital, is now deliberately trying to move out without giving any other room to a non-profit library with a priceless library, with people who have spent their lives working for a meager wage, this noble cause, to train young people into knowledge and books, not bandits and drugs. And this official, who thinks he's a professional and patriot of the city of Kiev, is back in power, but perhaps to solve the problem of not all citizens, but only a very limited circle. Thus, Mr. Kovalenko, like other Lithuanians, may feel that it is better to give up the library in the elite area in the center of Kiev to expand the private restaurant next to the library. I was sent a parliamentary request to the city’s Kiev head, Alexander Omelchenka. The final answer to the request thus far has not come to light as a result of the violation of the right of a national MP to receive an answer at the proper time. The MP's request is formally considered. As indicated in the reply, the Cave Administration has been asked to address the issue of further use of the library for youth on lease terms. But the problem has not been solved for several months. With a view to preserving the Kyiv District Library for Youth, the Labour Collective of the Library, the Library Foundations, I ask you to resolve the issue of further use of the library on the condition of renting premises on Dragomirov Street, 8 in Kiev. Mr. Chairman, on the basis of an unsatisfactory response to the request, please consider this statement as my parliamentary request to the Kiev City Head of Omelchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u25	Please, another dissatisfaction with the answer to the request. Olga Kobec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u26	Olga Kobec, Ukrainian People's Movement faction, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”. Similarly, I would like to draw the attention of the Chinese city government, which is apparently already in its seats and clearly needs to be changed and new winds. This applies to such a conclusion, particularly in view of and in response to my request from January 10, 2006, to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration. It was about organizing the tomb of the heroes Krut – Vladimir Naumovitch and Vladimir Schulgin – in the territory of the State Historical and Memorial Reserve of the “Lukyan Cemetery”. Well, who doesn't know, I'm going to say that in 1996 the necroscientist Ludmila Prezenko opened up to the public, especially to the Helena Tellia Society, the burial site of these two krks, which has really been preserved all this time. And so since 1996, by caring for this grave, we have been in correspondence with the Kyiv City State Administration for three years to establish a tomb on these graves. And here's the answer we got from not even the head of the Kiev City Administration, but from Mr. Padalka. It turns out to be governed by the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs, which provides for the burial of single citizens, persons without a specific place of residence and citizens whose burial has been abandoned by their relatives, not to mention, for example, that millions of expenses are spent on so-called support for the parliamentary activities of members of the Kyiv City State Administration. So we need to remind our members of the Kiev City Council and the head of the city of Kiev that it is nothing more than blasphemy to speculate on Ukraine’s will and independence. Ladies and gentlemen, we say good-bye to this hall: today is essentially the last day. And I would like to say that you and I should think about the morality of our actions. Apparently, it is immoral to sign an agreement with the future president of Ukraine about his support and then betray him. It is immoral to weaken the position of the President of Ukraine on the day of his State negotiations with the President of the neighbouring state by resigning the government. We have to act like this, I think, and say what we think. So I appeal to all those who come to the new Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u27	Please, Boki, the line was mentioned in his name. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u28	I'm out of town. Dear colleagues. John Boki, the Socialist faction. My name was mentioned here several times in different contexts. Let us answer these points briefly. Unfortunately, a game of truth cannot be isolated from the mass of the Communist factions. It's only natural. Gold is not used in an empty generation, and demagogy is a weapon of bankruptcy. With regard to the objections of the Lithuanian Block, this is where the papers tell us. They're on my hands. If the morals of politics in your mind are secondary, if our speaker feels something equal to Gagarin's feat, is in the ranks of the participants in combat and even in the Hero of Ukraine, it is futile to announce any sensations of conscience, reconciliation, understanding. Conscience is realized in actions, not in words. And the works of those who were resistance, the cement of bushmism, are known to all and highly esteemed in presidential elections. Coochmism won't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u29	Please, Belarus. I gave you my word, it's even time for you to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, principles of honor and dignity require me to apologize to fellow Communist factions. In my speech, I said they didn't sign. Today I am proud to say that they have signed, called for a bill to remove the inviolability of members of the local council. There's a dove lawyer who's gonna put cartoons on himself, and by earning the money he's got in his pocket, he's going to go up behind the block behind the BUIT Block. Let him do it. He does not realize that since the adoption of the Rules today, yesterday it was possible to do so, and today it is not possible. I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to put you to the vote, we will vote in solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u31	Please, just a minute. Replica, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u32	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Block”. Your Honor, I'm not going to name your name because you're ashamed to vote for the parliamentary immunity of 240,000 deputies. It's because of you, it's because of your 34 colleagues who voted 2,000 criminal cases today that can't be dealt with. You're the one who's blocking the law enforcement system today. That's what you did, because you had to do it then. And today you're pharisaic. Read the Bible, reverend. It's written about your 30 silver coins, it's written about your princesses, it's written about everything. And it says what their deeds are, know them. Here are your deeds, 34 votes out of 41. And these are your words that you're doing all over the country today and you're saying that we're going to undo the inviolability. But you've set it up yourself, Your Honor. And Carmazin was acting for her absence. That's the first one. And the second. And second, Your Honor, you have 7 billion in your throat when you're in the new situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! I think by accepting the schedule of the last session we've come up with very wisely that next week we've taken to work in the districts, and we're going to talk, and we're going to show, because if we're still going to continue next week, I imagine that we would turn into a mockery in front of our voters. Because everyone's looking for something, sniffing, spouting at each other. Let's just get some patience this week, let's let the voters know what they want. And they'll figure it out, because, believe me, this is our campaign now and the attacks on each other, probably except for the satisfaction of whoever's attacking and the dissatisfaction of whoever's being attacked is not going to bring anything positive. Regarding various statements about courtship and criticism of the city’s authorities. Dear colleagues! Those who go out and criticize, first look at the decisions of their governing party bodies that have unanimously supported the city’s power in the elections. Then go to the rostrum and criticize this authority. Don't split up, you can't do that, or all the blues, the blues, the oranges, the browns, the pinks, they all supported the power -- they go out on the stand and they criticize that power. Why would you do that? Last one. With regard to proposals for parliamentary immunity. Dear colleagues! I think we'll do you one more time wisely when we consider only one question on April 4th, on the question of parliamentary integrity. After the election, without speculation, no one blames anyone, is weighed, we will make a decision in the first and second final readings and do what we do. I think it'll be pretty wise, let's wait for the election results. Dear colleagues! Let us now consider the issues raised by the Provisional Special Commission for the Monitoring of Election Legislation. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! Yukhnovsky, the constituency block “Our Ukraine”. Report on the work of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council on the monitoring of electoral legislation. The Supreme Council identified three main tasks of the Temporary Special Commission, the monitoring of electoral legislation, the generalization of proposals by public authorities and local self-government regarding the practice of implementing electoral legislation and the introduction to the Supreme Council of proposals for improving electoral legislation. At the request of the Temporary Special Commission, the head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr, Lithuania, on March 6, 10 a.m., called for a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, with the participation of the heads of the district councils, the head of the CTC, at which the report of the head of the CTC was heard. And there was a discussion on this issue. On the same day, on March 6th, at 3 p.m., a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission was held, inviting the heads of the electoral committee, the Equal Opportunities Committee, the Ukrainian Press Association, the Europe-21 Foundation, the political and legal programmes of the centre of Razumkov, the electoral promotion project, the OSCE observer missions. Information was received from the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Meskull and Deputy Head of the Central Electoral Commission, information from the Head of the State Television and Broadcasting Committee of Murachovsky, proposals from the Central Electoral Commission by Mikola Ivanovich Melnik as Deputy Head of the CTC on the amendments to the Laws on the Elections of People's Deputies and on the Elections of People's Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crime on: first, the formation of the composition of the electoral electoral committees to give rights to relevant councils or heads of seats, villages and villages. To propose to the District Election Commissions candidatures in the composition of the District Commissions in cases where the political parties of the electoral process do not recommend the composition of the committees of their representatives, the granting of the right to vote to members of the District Electoral Commissions in the constituencies to which they are elected for strengthened certificates. A decrease in the number of members of the electoral committee to recognize its meetings and decisions as authorized. Simplification of the procedure for issuing ballot papers to voters. Allowing the electoral boards to make changes to the voter list on the day of the election by decision of the court. Increased budget spending on elections, with a significant increase in the salaries of the electoral boards on the day of the vote. The proposals were proposed for amendments to electoral legislation and the commission was supported. Information from the Ukrainian Elections Committee and the Presidential Commission on an experiment on the organization of voting at Simferopol's constituency was also heard and recommended that the election committee take into account the results of the experiment and issue appropriate recommendations to the electoral commission. The Commission receives letters from interested parties in the elections. In particular, letters were received from the head of the electoral company of the political party block of Lithuania and from the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights of Mrs. Karpachev. What conclusions can be drawn from the conclusions of the letters that have been heard? The first and most important is that Ukraine is ready for elections and elections will take place according to legislation. That the CEC team, led by Davidovich, is working systematically and confidently with full effort and great effort. What is difficult is that a number of polling stations are not selective. There is an exemption at the personal request of the members of the electoral boards. In a number of areas, the number of voters in the districts exceeds 4,000. [[Mikolaivska, Kharkivska, Lvivska]] That the time needed to serve one electorate in issuing the ballot is five minutes. That the border areas of Ukraine are in a state of acute lack of Ukrainian political information, that Ukrainian television and radio broadcasts do not exist in vast areas along the perimeter of the state borders of Ukraine, which have a place of use of administrative resources by ministers, particularly those who are candidates. As for headquarters, the information area of Ukraine needs to be introduced with more stringent operating standards. It has also been reported that elections abroad will take place in 78 countries and will involve 387,000 voters. The elections will be held in accordance with international rules in the territories of the embassies and consulates of Ukraine abroad. As a result, the main positions of the Central Electoral Commission on amending the electoral laws that were considered and supported by our commission were adopted by the Supreme Council on March 14 in the next three laws that you know. All the gaps found today in legislation such as those that have been dealt with expeditiously by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the adoption of the relevant bills are laws that are mainly related to laws, amendments of a semi-technical nature. In our view, it is time to reflect on the flaws in the legislative provision of technology in advance and without delay to discuss and make appropriate decisions. This work of modernizing electoral legislation in the next should be done without haste and considered. In particular, this refers to the use of electronic mail and digital signatures, especially when voting in foreign areas, as it has now been done in Lithuania. There is an urgent need to finally ensure that the scientific and methodological follow-up to the modernization of electoral legislation is improved. Nearly 330 draft laws and regulations on election issues were introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. Of the 175 draft electoral laws, only 8 are marked with respect to the existence of drafters, with each of them with 8 drafts among the authors being national MPs and their assistants, representatives of the public. But there is the Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine, several institutes of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and finally the Institute of Law and the Academy of State. It's time to move from amateurism to professionalism. More to involve scientists in modernizing the elective legislator. Why is the issue of legislation not the intended themes of the legal institutions of Ukraine? In summary, it must be stated that President Viktor Yushchenk's programme for democratic elections has its own effect. And yet our subjective impression is that there is an unusual overload of the psyche of citizens in the capital and in large cities, and a lack of information on the outskirts. It seems that everyone is trying to destroy existing power without being better than themselves. The main players in the electoral process are using illegal, unworthy national benefactors to make extra payments. As a result of the payments offered by a party of regions, “Our Ukraine, socialists, SDPU(o), we have put the national budget in half the financial phenomenon at 61 billion dollars. But we have the smallest right to place mines under the work of the next parliament and the next government that it is not. Especially foolish and unforgivable and extremely unacceptable are the behavior of young men in front of the government’s house. First. Their screams and sounds are harmful to the body of decibels. It's different. They destroy their own organisms, and worst of all, the bodies of militia personnel and completely innocent women and men in the Cabinet of Ministers. We are the two co-chairs of the commission, Kruczkov and Yukhnowsky, making a proposal for the Supreme Council to order the immediate cessation of the post for the state of the Sabbath of young people in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, and for the Office of the Attorney-General to investigate the sources of financial bribery and the disintegration of the young generation. Ladies and gentlemen, we wish to preserve the dignity of the deputy of the Supreme Council, democracy determines the individual’s freedom and necessarily the balance of society. A great Ukrainian. The cosmonaut of the Soviet Union, Greece, wisely said that among all the garbagees of nature, the worst is the contamination of human psyche. It is expected that the next session, at which foreign and international observers are invited, will take place on March 21st at 3 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u35	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign in. Let us take five minutes to ask questions. Yes, please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u36	..the word to John Verni Dub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u37	Verni Dubov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u38	Dear comrades, Igor Rafailovich! You said Ukraine was ready for elections. We do not share such optimism. And now you've been through a lot about lists. Less than ten days remain, and there are still many shortcomings on the lists. Names, street names, townsfolk, villages There are no names for the electorate of entire multi-storey houses. The legislation clearly identifies who is in charge of the establishment of the lists, who is in control. This is the first violin, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the authorities on the ground, it's the Cabinet of Ministers' control. Do you have any examples of anyone being punished for such insolence, for conjuring the translations of names, for failing to comply with the law? That's the first question. And the second question. Tell me about the law. A man will come to the polls and because of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u39	All these questions are being considered. Article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies obliges local administrations to establish working groups for the calculation of voters who are required to correct electoral lists and surname lists accordingly. The deformation of the list of names just came about because there's just lazy people in places. Instead of wisely translating the lists written in Russian into English, they used a simple computer translation. Of course, Kovalova will translate Kuznietsov’s computer into Koval, and another similar Russian name will be translated into Ukrainian. But there are smart people who have to read this and you can say it in advance. Dear friends, we have a very good habit, bad, sorry, habit. Normal, smart, and good things are kind of coming to mind, as you can see for yourself. And all the benefits of such features are brought to the general discussion. Now, according to the new amendments to the law, the District Election Commission and the respective heads of the District Electoral Commission have the right to make appropriate amendments to the names, appropriate clarifications because those voters who have not found themselves on the list and who answer your question, I would like to call on the voters of Ukraine, there is still a lot of time to come to see whether you are on those lists, whether the names correctly written are the moral responsibility of each electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u40	Please, Orzhachovsky Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u41	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear reporter, I want to break the same problem as the previous speaker, and I want to ask you as one of the heads of the board of electoral monitoring. We, we feel in Ukraine during the elections, will not be able to express our will to hundreds of thousands of citizens. And here's the argument. First. The government decided not to accept Soviet passports. There are problems with voting abroad, particularly in Transnistria. And this on election day, the missed voters will also not be able to regain their right to vote. This and the like could be continued. The Honourable Reporter, what can be called, means that this is an honest and fair election? And the second. I'd like to ask you what you can do today to avoid the kind of atrocities that are being committed today, when even the electorate is throwing himself at the electorate, and in hersonish, a decent person died after.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u42	With regard to voting abroad. Indeed, during the presidential election, we had far more polling stations abroad, but there is an international rule: elections abroad are held in the territory of the state that conducts its elections there. I mean, elections abroad can only take place in Ukrainian consulates and embassies. So throughout the world, so does our nation. Regarding the vote in Transnistria The Transnistrian Republic is not recognized as a legal state in Ukraine; it belongs to the Republic of Moldova and we support normal relations with the Republic of Moldova. And these people have to vote in consulates and embassies located in the Republic of Moldova. That's all I can answer your question. It's about passports. Of course, even my wife and I have recently switched Soviet passports not because we say that we are not Ukrainian, but because we were both careless and had a hard time. Sadly, in the same police force, we were not reminded of the old passport I was asking for. Likewise, these people are completely inconvenient. And for every carelessness you have to pay. Although I think these questions can be solved. In the end, relative to the queue. That's the worst thing that's going to happen in the election. Simferopol pointed out that it would take five minutes for a man with five ballots to go or two members of a constituency panel to form one man with the five ballot papers that would be given and with those huge lists where he would find the appropriate number of the constituency. Given how I read here, in some areas instead of 200.5,000 of the maximum number of voters there are 4,000 voters, it's hard to imagine what's going to happen in those areas. So it seems to me that in this case, we've done a bit of a perturbation, thinking that we can run all the elections at the same time on the same day. Maybe we should spread the election to the Supreme Council and the election to the local councils, but that's only possible. It's too late to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u43	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich, please sit down. Yeah, let's ask the commission to work productively. Sit down, this is not for you, Igor Raphael.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u45	In order for the commission to work really next week, she monitored the situation so that Parliament would not be left out of this complex and vital process. Yes, Mironenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u46	The Communist faction, Mironenko, Crimea. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Bill No. 9085 on the creation of a single economic space in Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, was very strangely introduced yesterday, without information that the bill took into account the comments of MPs, ministries to a similar bill 8431, which lacked only three votes for adoption, was tabled without a mandatory vote from the author, in the absence of the author in the voting room, without the possibility of giving the necessary explanations on the grounds of the procedure, without the ability of the people's deputies to vote consciously. Specially or accidentally hiding information that members of the relevant committee, representatives of the ministries, agree that it is appropriate to conclude both of the draft regulations on the conclusion of agreements. If the bill has not been put to the vote in order to undermine its adoption, I ask that it be put to the vote because it is extremely important to the economy of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u47	Everything was in line with the rules of the Rules, considering that if we included and discussed, then there would be all the other rules that you were talking about -- the report, the report, the report, the committee conclusions. I wasn't in the hall. We'll put it in your presence now. Who's in charge of including in the daytime seasons and considering question number 9085, please vote. [[11:41:32]] For 155 The factions. The regions of Ukraine – 13, communists – 56, Block of Timoshenko – 19, People's Party – 5, Our Ukraine – 4, Socialist Party – 23, People's Block of Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs – 3, Rebirth – 6, Reforms and Order – 3, non-fractional – 4. [[United]] So let's move on to issues of order and decision-making. Dear colleagues, we need to bring you into the agenda of the Technopolis Project of Kiev Politechnics. Registration number 9083. It's about that. Now, dear fellows. It's about what this technopolis is designed to do, and in order for this technopolis not to act on the basis of decrees and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, it would be desirable for a single, unique technopolis to adopt a special law. Let them work according to the law, as part of the experiment. Let's see what the situation is. I propose to vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the 9083 bill. Please vote. I vote friendlyly. Vote, the issue is not political, respected colleagues. You have half the graduates of the political institute here. [[11:43:16]] For 204 The factions. The regions of Ukraine are 6, the communists are 56, the Block of Timoshenko is 21, the People's Party is 11, our Ukraine is 17, the Socialists are 29, the People's Block of Lithuania is 22, the Social Democrats is 3, the Ukrainian People's Party is 4, the National Movement of Ukraine is 10, the Party of Industrialists, entrepreneurs – 4, the Rebirth – 8, the Reforms and Orders – 9, the Non-Frakational. [[United]] Dear colleagues, come on, mobilize. Once again, no politics but one. The largest branch of the state has special status, has the ability to work under the conditions of the technopolis. Please vote for inclusion. Vote. Vote. Vote, because it'll go away without you, and then it'll be awkward. [[11:44:14]] For 249 Thank you. The question is included. Please, Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov. Prepare Igor Raphaelovich. From the microphone, please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u48	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, you are taking note of the draft Ukrainian Law on Technopolis “Kievska Politechnika”. The goal of creating a technopolis is to improve the effectiveness of innovation activities in Ukraine. The main disadvantage today in innovative activities is, unfortunately, not the lack of inventors, or native domes, but the lack of qualified personnel, who have adequate education and understand what innovation is. Modern innovation requires appropriate structures. In view of the world’s experience, such are technopolises, creating such technology at the base of major technical universities. For example, there is the Stanford University of the United States, which is a systematic element of Silicon Valley, the world-renowned innovation environment of the United States. By the way, in his last speech, the President in this room stressed that we need to move on to creating a “silicon valley” in Ukraine. So this is the first step. Such technology exists in other developed countries. They are created on the condition that their legal status is confirmed at the legislative level. In Ukraine, existing legislation does not provide for a university to act as a system-based, emphasising, system-building element of innovation. That's why this law is needed. It should be noted that the technopolis “Kyivské polytechnics ” does not need help. And in the second reading, the drafters agree to remove all benefits that are not provided for in Ukraine’s modern legislation. Technopolis’s “Kyivsk Politechnics ” differs from the technology parks. First. Technopolis combines innovative activities in the preparation of human resources with the involvement of young people, or prospective experts, in the implementation of innovative projects. The other one. The technology combines the innovative activities of individual inventors and the innovation management group. Thanks to the preparation of technical, humanitarian, economic institutions in such large educational institutions as the NTU “KPI” and the combination of legal, financial, special principles for the functioning of the technopolis, this ensures the breakthrough of the state in the country's innovative development. Only technopolis can ensure the continuity of the necessary innovation chain: the idea of – research – research – test samples – great demand – serial production.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u49	Please, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Yukhnovsky, the constituency block “Our Ukraine”. Indeed, the creation of technopolis is an important task. The University of Kyiv is one of those universities that are perhaps the closest to the National Academy of Sciences. Unification from such an interaction leads to the existence of the pulpits of a very high theoretical and mathematical level that provide students with higher education. The involvement of scientific pulpits in the introduction, in the creation of the first samples, is very important. In addition, the University of Polytechnology has a huge territorial base on which such a technopolis can be located. I think this is the first technopolis to be created at the University of Ukraine. These technologies are to be created both in Donetsk and Odessa and in Lviv and perhaps other cities based on these modern and in Kharkiv based on modern political universities. So I ask you, honourable Members, to adopt this bill in the first reading so that, in the second reading, the new Supreme Council and the new Committee on Science and Education will consider very carefully the issues related to taxation, the issues related to the programme, the questions related to the way in which development is implemented. I want to pay tribute to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and Michael Kuzmich for the fact that at their initiative, when they were at the University of Technology, this law appeared in the Supreme Council. Dear friends, please accept this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u51	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Shall we discuss it? No, there's, please, Manchulenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u52	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka The creation of the Kiev Politechnique technology will contribute to the further development of domestic science, the creation of new technologies and the development of scientific production, the increase in the volume of production of competitive, high-tech and innovative products, the saturation of such products in the internal market and the increase of Ukraine's export and scientific potential as a whole. Technology in line with the draft law is aimed at developing and implementing high-efficiency innovation technologies, which in turn stimulates the use of progressive technologies in various areas of the economy of the state. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption in the first reading of the technopolis bill “Kievska Politechnika”. We agree with the drafter of the bill, MP Rodionov, who says that certain benefits were foreseen, including land payments. Of course, it would be better to work on these nuances in the second reading, perhaps to remove them from the fact that this bill was adopted as a whole as soon as possible and would allow our scientists to work for the interests and science, and Ukraine as a whole. There are also some warnings that article six of the Ukrainian Law on General Principles for the Creation and Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones sets out a list of documents to be submitted to the bill. So let's say a project on the status of the technopolis and its management system, a precise description of the boundaries of the technopolis and the map of its territories, a technical-economic justification for the purpose of creation, the functioning of the technopolis. I also hope that, once adopted in the first reading, the second reading and the author of the bill and the Parliament's committee of expertise will be able to take due account of those still existing at this point of failure so that the law can be adopted in the second reading and in general. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption of the technopolis Bill in the first reading, and hopes that the second reading will take into account our observations and suggestions so that the next perspective of the law can be considered in the second reading, it will probably be Parliament's next call and we hope that our colleagues in the next assembly will adopt this very important bill, both for science and for the state as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I emphasize that the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports acceptance in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u53	Thank you. All those who signed up and showed a desire to speak spoke. Dear colleagues! Let's mobilize. In fact, I was in December at this University of Technology, amazing results, and we have to help them, let's help the law. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Technology. Bill 9083 registration number. Please vote. [[11:53:31]] For-286 Adopted in the first reading. Could we delete articles that interfere with and accept immediately? Oh, no? So no, let's let the committee work, really, so that we don't have a return to the law and maybe even the fourth. We don't take breaks on Fridays. We do a lot of talking on Fridays. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Ukraine Codex Draft on Nadra. Registration No. 9013 Out of procedure, please, Solomon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Gennady Borisovich, I appeal to the head of the profiling committee. I don't understand why we have to consider this bill today. First, of the six committees, there were only two. Second, there are no conclusions from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Academy of Sciences. Thirdly, there were no decisions on the committee, since only three of the 15 members of the committee were present. There was an attempt to vote by collecting signatures that did not meet the requirements of the Rules and the Committees Act. Six signatures of fifteen, or support, were collected for such distance support. Fourth. The Codex Codex on Nadra deserves more public discussion. Therefore, I propose that the bill be removed from consideration as not prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u55	Please, Hennady Borisovich. A word for the report and answers, including Gennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u56	I'm on a procedural issue first. The committee also took place if it is believed that in most committees today, indeed, military status can be written, “All went to the front! ” So, God forbid, there's three or four men coming together. Unfortunately, I repeat, perhaps in some committees another situation is why we are gathering signatures, so I repeat, unfortunately, the situation is that most deputies are busy in the election. As far as the Codex on Nadra is concerned, I want to emphasize that the first reading of the Codex on Nadra is being considered. He is, in large numbers, supplicing the bill that exists today. The Codex Codex on Nadra has been in place since 1994. And certainly during that time, he did not take into account the characteristics of the transition to a market relationship. The draft of the new edition is actually developed with the help of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister's office is now being considered in parallel, so they say in procedural matters, they say the Cabinet of Ministers has not given an explanation, Your Honor, I emphasize that the Cabinet of Ministers has actually considered this editorial and has no claim to it. The new codex contains terminology, legal, economic foundations for integrated rational use and protection of nadrs, which will ensure that basic tasks such as the management of mining relationships are carried out. And how beneficial fossils, underground wastes, energy and other resources are part of the nadr and cannot be passed on. I repeat, they cannot be transferred to private or collective property. This code details the ownership rights of users over and, in particular, ownership of useful fossils, the user gets nadr at the time of removal of these fossils from the nadr, or after distribution of extracted useful fossils. The code provides for the recognition of ownership of the user of the nadr on the construction of the underground buildings and other properties associated with the nadra. This position is one of the basics. The acquisition of the right to use the area is done by obtaining special permits that are the basis for the creation of the specified right and determine the conditions, specific conditions, emphasis, use and protection of the nadr. The bill defines ownership of geological, marquider and other information regarding the nadr. And I would like to point out, my dear colleagues, that right now, let's not get into any procedural issues, but let's look at this project essentially. And the point, I repeat, is that the first reading and the second reading, I'm sure any additional comments we take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u57	Any questions? Please sign up for the questions. Yeah, three minutes of Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u58	I beg your pardon to pass the word to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u59	Please, it's Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u60	Gennady Borisovich, please tell us how this codex was prepared, where it was discussed, which public was involved, first of all, geological. I'm a geologist by profession, I've worked all my life in geology, and I know what nadra is, and I know the spirit of scout geologists as to how such a very important document should be prepared and considered. It happened in a cell. Please tell me why this document is being considered in this way. That's the first question. And the second question. Nadra. This was not created by human hands. It was from God, not even mankind, and we try to touch the nadr and use the nadr without having such a thorough discussion. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u61	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. First. I'm sorry you're offended that one of your bills didn't support the committee, so now you're ready to throw all the committee bills. Not by essentially discussing it, but by procedural standards. I repeat, we act unfortunately in such military conditions, when I repeat, most of the deputies are involved in the election. It's a discussion. There was a discussion of the codex. It also happened in the Cabinet of Ministers, and it also happened with public organizations, associations, there were two round tables with a lot of press. The materials of the codex, the projects, were distributed. Yuri Petrovich, if you wanted to, you'd be joining us. There is a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Mr. Lisun, and he can also say his point of view. So no cellity, and you, I repeat, are being insulted. I'm sorry if we offended you. In the future, I think we can fix the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u62	Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u63	Please give the floor to National Deputy Igor Yukhnovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u64	Yukhnovsky's microphone, please, Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u65	Tell me, please, how the law will determine the rules for payment to local mining councils and for the occupation of areas where fossils are to be developed. In particular, I am interested in this from the point of view of the mining of colored stones in the Žitomirsk region and in the Volinsk region, where this mining is carried out in a very barbaric way and is causing enormous damage to our trusts. How will this issue of noninjuriousness and payment to local councils for the exploitation of appropriate crops be settled?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Igor Rafailovich, you are no one else who knows that in the 1994 edition of the Code there is a rule that up to 60 percent of the funds are going to, in the region. But if you choose the truth, the Budget Act is constantly halting this rule. So in fact, regions aren't interested in developing nadra. Thus, decisions are sometimes blocked. In our bill, we deliberately asked questions about first readings to get, in fact, fair, both from the regions and from the MP factions, from the ministries of supply, because perhaps time has shown that 60 percent does not satisfy either the center or the region, or the perverse. Therefore, the optimum figure is expected to appear before the second reading. But that will not be halted by any budget laws. Today, yes, there's a distortion towards the center, we want to redefine it in a new edition so that the region is suffocated. It's a question of specific positions. So the specific positions that you and I have before second reading have to count out where there is a national resource, where there is a local resource. So the so-called rule of two keys is taken away. The first key should be in the regions for the local resource, and the state-wide key should still be in the central executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u67	Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u68	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading, since it is now obsolete. But we do have a series of observations, say, articles 98, 99 of the bill, which defines the system of payment for the use of drama and the exemption from the use of drama. But we know that today's legislation, particularly the "On Status, on the Tax System" Act, provides that all changes or tax regimes should be governed solely by taxation legislation, the Code is not the "On Taxation" Act. That's the first one. And article 108 of the project contains a procedure for dealing with administrative offences. But again, there is a Codex on Administrative Offences. Therefore, it may be appropriate to take these comments into account in the second reading and to bring the bill into line with the current laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u69	The committee was trying to gather maximum information, and we may have been partially involved in other procedural norms. But we see that in practice, unfortunately, most positions don't work. Although the codex should serve as a truly conceptual form, it should unite all efforts. So for the second reading, I think all your suggestions can be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u70	Thank you, Hennady Borisovich. Please sit down. Shall we discuss it? Yeah? Well, give me 12 minutes. Oh, my God. To prepare Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u71	Banders win. Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The need to improve legislation in the field of the use of nadrama is undeniable. However, this bill does not cover the whole field of nudity and drug use. In addition, many of his regulations have raised warnings. I'm going to say some of these things that aren't marked by scientific expertise. Rural, rural, urban, and district councils alone are unable to control their use and protection, as provided for in article 10, since experts are needed to control them. These functions, according to articles 104 to 107 of the project, should be performed by government authorities, such as the State Mining and Geological Control Service. And so any work, starting with the stage of the race. The work must be carried out under their continuous supervision. Archaeologists, paleontologists, and other scientists should be involved promptly in such oversight. And in the event that there has been a violation of the rules of protection, destruction or damage to artifacts, and so forth, it is for the public service to be responsible for this, since oversight is their direct duty. The same is true of article 95. Users of the region are not obliged to be experts in archaeology, geology, paleontology, or astronomy. Therefore, the obligation to stop work in the event of the detection of rare geological resistances, minerals, meteorites, paleontological, archaeological, and other objects provided for in article 95 is not convincing. What is more, their interests correspond to the opposite: ignoring the findings and speeding up the work. Therefore, it would be more logical to carry out a standard by which a representative of a public authority, who is charged with functions and protection of the nadr or control of the development of the nadr, is constantly observing and has the authority to suspend work if findings are found that are of value to science, rather than merely to draw up records of violations as proposed in article 107. The solution to the issue of financing jobs in the elimination of mining objects and the environmental consequences of their operation is an important one, as stated in article 85. This superficial approach to environmental problems in mining areas has left us with a host of problems that are currently being and will be, and will cost the state enormously in the future. Just a reminder of submerging the area around the preserved mines. Pollution of groundwater and groundwater by technological waste There was a legislative obligation for users to fund the entire complex of work to eliminate the available and expected environmental consequences of work and the elimination of mining objects, including the obligation to forget the closed ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u72	Cory Vitaly, get ready for Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u73	Vitaly Corge, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The new Codex is designed to improve the system of government regulation and governance in the field of the use of nadroms, to increase public influence in the introduction of market mechanisms in the field of geology, use and protection of nadros, as well as to solve waste problems and to provide financial security for work in the disposal of mining facilities, and so on. We see as a disadvantage to this document that the project contains contradictions in determining the competence of government authorities and local self-government. The provisions of the Nadra Property Rights Bill and its implementation are unclear. The system of public authorities in this area should be reduced for this reason we will vote in favour of rereading the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. Next, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u75	Oleg Zarubinsky, National Block of Lithuania Dear Adam Ivanovich! Clearly, we all know that the Codex on Nadra is valid today, and we've already talked about it, 10 years ago, in 1994. Obviously, it was created on a legal basis that was in force at the time, and it's now out of date. It looks like an axiom. Since then, the new Earth Code has been adopted, and many other important laws, which are obviously very poorly harmonized with the old Nadra Code. Therefore, the new edition of the Code of Nadra is obviously necessary to improve the system of government regulation and governance in the field of the use of nadrama for the purpose of strengthening, and I would like to emphasize the strengthening of public influence in the wide implementation of geology, use and protection of nadrs, market mechanisms, smartly marketed mechanisms, and the resolution of problems related to approaches to financial security for mining facilities. I think it's a good thing that chapters 14-17 of the project contain rules that regulate issues of state monitoring in the field of use and protection of nadr, state control and surveillance in the field of use and protection of nadr, dispute resolution on the use of nadra, responsibility for violations of Nadra legislation. Clearly, this is a positive one. Perhaps I will not reveal a particular secret when I say that there are many abuses in the field of drug use and breeding, beneficial fossils, among other things, of a subjective nature, or of an imperfect legal base that would clearly regulate the activities of all subjects in the field. Clearly, the new Codex on Nadra has a lot of work to do, and colleagues have been talking about it today, but they can be corrected, and they can be corrected in the second reading. In general, the need to adopt such a law is very great, so the People’s Block of Lithuania invites colleagues to support the bill in the first reading. And also, since I have 40 seconds, I'd like to say: Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov recently said that he would publish the list of users of the drama. Nadra, like the earth, is the property of the Ukrainian people. I would very much like to have lists printed of those individuals, including those sitting in the session hall, who are fighters with other political forces, such as gas fields in the Poltava region, in some other regions. So I think it would be a positive thing for people to know their heroes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u76	Yuri Solomatin, please. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, I am a geologist for education, a geologist for fate, my life has been dedicated to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for research and exploration of uranium deposits. My being and my soul are in excruciating pain at what the Reformers have done with geological intelligence. In 15 years, 10 devastating blows nearly destroyed the geological exploration industry. And now this is going to be the final destructive blow -- this is the codex. What's the question? What's the problem today? It is about protecting the interests of the state and, at the same time, the citizens of Ukraine and the rights of the users of the nadr. Who are users today? Those who suppressed the gas and oil wells? Who's already shut down the mines? Those who are already trying to wipe out everything on the surface. People are good! What is above is created before mankind came into existence. It is not possible for greedy human hands to reach to the bulk of them to belong exclusively to the Ukrainian people! Article 34 “The responsibilities of the users of the areas and the nadr” states that it would be very good if the users had special qualifications or experience. Right, who stopped 2 years of adoption in the Supreme Council itself of Ukraine of the relevant law on licensing activities in the geological exploration sector?Oh, my God! Finally, this bill of mine was recently adopted, and this rule, it has to be implemented in accordance with the law. And one more thing. Look. Article 35 refers to the right of the user to use a restricted area. nadr. What does that mean? Someone got the area, and then they're going to pass it once in a row, and then they can finally get to the god knows who. What are you people suggesting? You've got it. No words! One more. The right of State ownership and the right to property of territorial communities to the genealogies of Nadr. Humans, what is the right of the community to the nadra and the place of origin?Oh, my God! You know, the right to use and the responsibility to get it right is what I understand, and the rights to nadra and genealogy even local. Let us give it to individuals at that time! Next. “Parts of a nadr are given to use for a fixed term or without a limit of time.” We're here! Thank you very much. And finally. “The geological and other information about the nadr obtained by the user at the expense of his own funds is the property of the user.” Get out! Get out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u78	Yes, Carmazine. None. Manchulenko. You have two minutes. There's one left, isn't there? But you'll get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u79	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption in the first reading of the draft of the Nadra Act. Today, the law in force, adopted in 1994, is out - of - date and does not take into account the realities of today, does not meet the requirements that social development and our society now impose on us. We support the adoption in the first reading of it, but we have a few comments, and I would ask the drafters, including the Parliamentary Committee, to take them into account in the second reading. As I have noted, articles 98, 99 of the project are devoted to determining the system of payment for the use of the drama and the exemption from payment for the use of the drama. But such payments should be governed by the Ukrainian Tax System Act. These payments are compulsory. And since Ukrainian legislation provides that the tax system, tax rates, the tax regime should be governed solely by taxation laws, these rules will have to be removed in preparation for the second reading, because the code is not a tax law. Article 108 of the draft law contains a procedure for dealing with administrative abuses in the field of the use of the drama. But we do have an appropriate code, the Code of Administrative Offences, and so the draft Law on Nadra also needs to remove these situations. In view of these observations, we believe that a draft law can be adopted in the first reading, with due regard for the second reading of the comments and suggestions made by our faction, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u80	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I put it to a vote: on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Nadra. Registration number 9013. [[12:18:33]] For-95 Not accepted. Who's in charge of re-reading? [[12:18:56]] For-79 Sulkowski used a non-parliamentary term, but it is essentially correct. The law is rejected. Rereading the first reading. We need to look at laws, draft laws on lawyers. Please. Marcus Maria Andriyevna Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u81	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The updated draft Ukrainian Law on Lawyers is aimed at bringing legal action legislation into line with European legislation in accordance with the rules and requirements of world legal practice that will further improve the state's justice system, improve the mechanism for effective financial support for legal activity by appointment and free legal aid, and provide an opportunity to address the issue of Ukraine's accession to the Hague Convention on International Access to Justice in 1980. The adoption of the bill will allow the legal and organisational problems of the bar to be resolved, will solve the problem of the creation of a professional Bar Association, which has been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, before which Ukraine has not yet fulfilled its commitment to the creation of a professional Bar Association in Ukraine. The bill, which is proposed to your attention in its working form, contains such nuances. The status of the bar, its definition, and the concept of the principles of organization and activity have been clarified. The procedure for obtaining status as a lawyer of a foreign state of legal activity in Ukraine has been clarified. The procedure for obtaining legal status has been clarified, and the procedure for access to the qualification examination has been clarified, including the provision that a person who has not passed the qualification examination has the right to pass it in just one year. The order of the internship, the type of legal activity, and the form of the legal aid agreement have been clarified. In addition to the legal system of taxation, there is the right to alternatively choose the tax system and to tax the legal activities of legal associations, they are defined as nonprofit organizations. The subject of legal secrecy has been clarified, which should be eliminated by a person interested in keeping it, and guarantees of legal activity have been established. The type of discipline is also defined, the type of vocation is excluded as a fine, the organization’s form of legal activity is clarified, especially with regard to the founders of the legal profession. The clause on the termination of the partnership agreement has been clarified, and changes have been made to the registration of legal associations, the grounds and conditions for granting free legal aid, and the order of membership of the Ukrainian Bar Association. In addition, articles on the principles of the Ukrainian Court of Counsel’s activity as a self - government body have been deleted. Articles 48, 49, 50 have also been deleted as to the order of acquisition, suspension and termination of membership in the Ukrainian Bar Association Chamber, the rights of members of the Ukrainian Bar Association, and their duties. The authority of the Ukrainian Bar Council is limited, and the position of the Ukrainian Regional Bar Association is limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u83	That is, those positions that have caused criticism in the hall last time are excluded. So all of these remarks that have been made, taken into account and proposed to you are a new draft law that has already been developed in the new edition. Please, dear colleagues, given that, indeed, the Council of Europe requires us to adopt such a law of Ukraine, where legal counsel will be determined by a truly professional organization. Please vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Bill number 7051-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u85	The honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies, respected lawyers, lawyers, parliament of today’s cabinets, has done much to improve existing state institutions, particularly the judiciary, as many laws have been passed that apply to the procedural principles of activity. But unfortunately, because of internal contradictions, in fact, in Parliament between the political forces, we did little to improve the legal settlement of important civil institutions such as notariat. You know that the law is not adopted. And I'm afraid that's what the law on lawyer is about. My colleague just reported for work at the Supreme Council, Mrs. Marcus, who reported the bill, one of the options for the law on lawyers. They're very close to the point, but there are two big differences that I'd like to mention. The bill, which I'm introducing at number 7051-1, is that we have to take a real step towards real self-government of lawyers. And it is suggested, in particular, that this should be done because all Ukrainian lawyers should be able to: (a) Take part in the nomination of delegates for the All - Ukrainian Bar Association, which should, in fact, represent the lawyer through the creation of appropriate bodies. In doing so, it is envisaged that lawyers remain a self-governing organization, and all the institutions of the bar, including the registration of lawyers, the creation of qualification committees, appeals committees and all other bodies, are solely the competence of lawyers. Unlike the fact that today the State is taking part, including in the work of individual institutions involved in the certification of lawyers, accepting them to the lions. The draft law foresees a lack of compulsory membership, honourable colleagues, and I emphasize this because of what such mandatory membership foresees, then creates the corresponding shortcomings that we are trying to address. Mrs. Markusz’s project, even though she did not say so, provided for the preservation of the institution of compulsory membership. And that's actually their basic difference, even though in many other positions they're congruent. The second major difference is that the Transitional Situations, which provide for the procedure for convening the relevant assembly in the Markus project, provide for the participation of the Union of Ukrainian Lawyers, our bill is based on the fact that it should be done by its own lawyers, whether they belong to the Lawyers Association or not. I have to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u86	Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u87	Honorary colleagues, to carry out their own position as the Supreme Council, which had already considered how the Chairman, the aforementioned bills, had proposed that the Committee of Legal Policy should unite all the authors of the three bills. [[And there were three of them.]] Two groups of authors, such as Oneschuk, Slabenko, and those who represented, joined our colleague Sobolev and his colleagues into such a working group. Sadly, though, the drafters of the bill, which today represents Marcus, refused such a union. According to the commission of the committee, the relevant Working Group prepared a unified bill of number one, 7051-1, which I have actually reported today, and is quite natural that the Committee of Legal Policy on its meeting has found appropriate to take this bill as a basis. I would like to point out that the Committee on Legal Policy recommends that it be adopted only on a basis, and it would be very important if we voted today in this way, in view of the fact that the procedure opens up as a basis, then the workup, the consideration of the right observations and the individual successful formulations that Mrs. Marcus has in the project. I would also like to point out that the committee noted that the Scientific and Experimental Authority had sent Mrs. Markusz's comments on the 12-page bill, stating that a number of provisions of the bill did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly on mandatory membership. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to stop taking the legal committee position and to vote on Bill 7051-1 as a basis so that the parliament of the new chamber can continue to do the job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u88	Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Hare Ivan. In the field. Zarubinsky Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, but like Zarubinsky, the People's Block of Lithuania. You can't, you can't really imagine a real democracy without the reliable protection of the rights and freedoms of every individual without the rule of law in the field of the judiciary, especially without the existence of a developed law institution. Under these conditions alone, the domestic judicial system will acquire a quality of full and authoritative judicial authority capable of controlling the constitutionality and legality of all branches of power and will be able to protect the constitutional values of the democratic system. And the only way to talk about the functioning of the reformed judicial system is if the avalanche of complaints about the hope of the authorities is to be transformed into court claims and lawsuits. It is then, with the emergence in society of the first fundamental signs of civil society, that a celebration of high principles of law and justice will take place. Today, de facto, the state does not guarantee the constitutional right of citizens to receive free legal aid even in cases established by law. Or that is why the violation of the constitutional right of citizens to legal protection with the participation of the defence attorneys, in sum, also entails a huge number of violations of their civil rights. For the time being, and since 1992 the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers has long been unresponsive to social and political change. The Lithuanian People's Block, seeing in the legal money of Project No. 7050-1-1 the real mechanism for regulating social relations in the interests of citizens' rights and freedoms, supports the idea of improving the national justice system and, in particular, transforming it, I would like to stress in particular the transformation of this system into an effective tool for controlling society, people over government. The drafters' introduction of the bill to this document, proposed by the expert management of changes, for example, on the definition of the conditions for the provision of free legal aid, will obviously improve the conceptual structure of the bill and allow substantive complement to the content of the legislative logic. That is, with the approval of this bill, in our opinion, the People’s bloc of Lithuania will have a real opportunity to regulate legal relations in Ukraine. And most importantly, to determine the legal principles of legal activity. And, above all, provide the poorest citizens of Ukraine with the necessary legal protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u90	Yes, Marcus Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, because Mikola Vasilovich gave a little bit, he analyzed my bill, so I want to say that before his bill, which is not an alternative to my bill, because it was submitted later and this is a self-sustaining bill. Moreover, it was not sent within the time limit set for alternative bills. It excludes the provision of high-quality legal aid and does not solve the most active problem of today – the provision of lawyers and the provision of free legal aid, guaranteed by article 59. The individual conceptual positions of the bill and its corresponding standards are a violation of the Constitution. He proposes to create a non-self-governing organization and professional activity, access to the status of a lawyer and the provision of legal aid available to the population, it will dramatically reduce the professionalism of a lawyer and may lead to total destruction. This applies, in particular, to the restrictions imposed by the bill on citizens of Ukraine on the constitutional right to a profession, where the language in article 3 of Chapter 9 to the Final and Transitional Regulations is established that only the availability of higher legal education received at the educational institution of Ukraine and by 23 May 1991 at the educational institution of the Soviet Union meets the requirements for admission to qualification examinations, articles 6 and 35 of the bill. This rule is contrary to international agreements, the requirements of the Bologna Process and existing procedures. education documents, etc. Thus, education requirements are laid down and are a violation of the constitutional right of citizens are provided for in article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, there is an admission to the legal profession of persons who have international law education, which does not refer to the direction of law, but is directed by the Cabinet of Ministers towards international relations and does not meet the State standard in matters relating to the number of disciplines and hours devoted to the study of Ukrainian law. This will lead to the admission, to the legal profession of persons who do not have proper legal knowledge. Infringements to the constitutional right of citizens to work and constitutional guarantees for the selection of professions are also other conceptual provisions of the bill concerning the restriction of access to the legal activity of citizens who have their trial removed or extinguished, as well as the inadmissibility of the legal activity of persons who are tried for reckless crimes. In addition, there is limited number of persons who are defined as being required to be admitted to legal examinations. In addition, there is such a nuance as to be allowed to take professional examinations, through the completion of the qualification examinations in article 6 of the bill, which establishes that in transitional situations, it is established that a certificate of rights in the exercise of legal activity is obtained without the making up of qualified examinations in a certain category of lawyers. An interesting nuance is also proposed that the status of a lawyer is acquired by citizens who do not have Ukrainian citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u92	Yes. Question completed. We'll be able to determine. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Lawyers. Registration number is 7,051. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:35:45.]] For-143 Yes. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Lawyers, registration number 7051-1. It's about determination. [[12:36:13]] For-157. Not accepted. Who is responsible for sending both bills for rereading? I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:35]] For 233 They did. Let them read. Yes. The vote has already taken place. Let us move on to the issue of the simplified procedure. Draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products in Ukraine. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] Registration numbers 8594, 8594-1. Yes, please, Teeth of Mikhail Vasilovich. There's no reporter? Yes, Egnashenko, please. Deputy Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The main problems in the milk market at the moment are the low quality of milk raw material, which has a negative impact on the export capacity of milk products, as well as on the low level of consumer protection against non-quality products. A partial solution to this problem is provided for the bill proposed for your consideration. The bill provides for the specification of the requirements for packaging milk raw materials and dairy products. Clarification of quality and safety requirements for dairy products, regulations for the organisation of milk quality and safety controls. Most importantly, these changes can remove certain coalitions between the existing Milk and Milk Products Act and the Basic Law on State Support for Agriculture on Sector Support. Yes, I would like to remind you, the main form of support, indeed, with the Law on State Support for Agricultural Production, is the payment for the implementation of products. And when you know, from your experience, there are parallel mechanisms, and in practice not one of them works, and manufacturers don't get the right financial support. Please support the government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the Committee of Tereshuk. So, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u95	John Tomic, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine has considerable productive potential not only for dairy and dairy supply but also for extremely large export potential, resulting from the problem of the milk and milk market remain quite relevant in terms of the quality of raw materials. Which is one of the reasons why the lack of non-competitive milk production, the lack of a regulatory base that meets international standards, the lack of consumer protection against non-quality milk products, insufficient state support for animal production, the animal sector. It is the bill that provides for the creation of institutional and legal frameworks to ensure the quality and safety of dairy products. The bill provides for the clarification of terms and requirements for packaging and labelling of milk raw materials and dairy products, as well as for their quality and safety. Clarifying the rights and duties of operators, animal health requirements that meet international requirements. The main scientific and expert office supports Bill 8594-1. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, in its first reading, supports the prescribed bill, taking into account that before the second reading it should, there are a number of issues that need to be taken seriously and further developed, and a normal law that would respond to the competitiveness of the producers of milk products in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Two fighters were enrolled in the discussion: Dearest and solomatin. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u97	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Of course, the topic that we are discussing today is, in all likelihood, primal enough, especially for our agriculture. Perhaps the media, the experts who have been making statements these past few months that we have a meat-and-milk industry on the verge of collapse, and the village is starting to cut up a large cattle because we have relations in Russian-Ukrainian relations today for unclear reasons. Why am I saying that I don't understand? Because, unfortunately, there is no minister today who would like to ask when our exporters will be able to return to Russian markets with their products. I guess there's nothing to tell a man. He sent the deputy. God's his judge, flag in his hand. I don't want to call. You guys are all asking what he's doing. I think he's doing whatever he wants, but not agriculture. I'll go back to the question we're talking about. Proposal for legislation: To streamline the Milk and Milk Products Act and bring it into line with the Law on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine. The dream is good and not bad. But it seems to me that, apart from legislation, we need to regulate practical action, because, once again, we can regulate quality today, and we need to do so, because quality is what our citizens consume, but quality is also what we go to external markets and we are not allowed to do so. And we have heard many promises. And last but not least, that's the subject. We would very much like our agricultural legislation to be consistent with more basic things when we talk about what a State should do for an agro-industry complex. In particular, I would like to say that the financial support provided in the 2006 budget, and we voted here with you, the major mass of the Ministry transferred these subsidies and subsidies to agriculture, was transferred to the end of this year. Do we have any seed or harvest in December-month? I think it's because there's a certain desire to play with that money, because if it wasn't for that desire, the farmers would have gotten that money in January-February. They're in the yard right now, they're sown in the nose, and the situation isn't moving on the yotta. I therefore want to say one thing: too much is said today about support for agriculture, but not many political forces like the People's Block of Lithuania, for example, require that 10 per cent of the budget go to the country, because this is the solution to the problems. And all the statements that someone wants to help the village, and he doesn't even bother to come to Parliament to do that and explain his position, are from the wicked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u98	Solomon passed the word to Mironka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u99	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea, Mironenko. Respected compatriots, the Communist faction believes that Bill No. 8591-1 should be adopted as a basis for improving the quality and safety of milk and dairy products. However, we invite the deputies and the future Government to ensure that an agreement is reached with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan within the framework of the creation of a single economic space, an agreement on the definition of the country of origin of goods with a view to: the first is to reduce tax evasion, fees, the second is to increase the income of the State budget in our countries, the third is to prevent carnivorous and other trade, economic conflicts, the fourth is to prevent imports from third countries that are dangerous to human health. The agreement has not yet been concluded. And when screams are said that our meat, our milk, our milk products Russia does not accept, it is the current orange power that does not conclude this agreement. The refusal to sign these and other agreements harms not only the domestic economy, but the exercise of freedoms, the rights of our citizens because of the creation. The aim is to ensure a significant increase in the standard of living of the people, to address employment problems, to free movement of our citizens across borders, to provide social protection, to the pension guarantees of our citizens working in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. The population of Ukraine has repeatedly heard statements by pro-American “orange” politicians that they are behind the creation of a single economic space for the conclusion of such an agreement concerning the problem of meat and milk, but that is not the case. And it is natural for the population to find out who is constantly lying, who is lying, and who is likely to show wisdom in these elections. In voting for the bill under consideration today, which also dealt with the issue. Regrettably, all the same pro-American orange policies did not vote, but in addition to these politicians, the majority of factions did not vote and that the most striking is the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, which is holding a referendum on the Single Economic Area. [[“Regions of Ukraine”]] Why lie? Why lie to people? But I understand that Kravchuk, who has eliminated the Union, will never really create a single economic space. Therefore, the people of Ukraine, please. Don't let me fool you! Stop this. Let the new policies put an end to this terrible policy for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u100	Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products. Registration number 8594. [[12:48:32]] Z-87 Not accepted. The vote shall be voted on by the draft number 8594-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:48:58]] For 176 Not accepted. The laws are rejected. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens is under consideration. [[on the sources of the cost of the return of citizens' savings]] Registration number 8059. Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna, please. Bondarchuku prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. All the political forces, all the previous calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, understand the importance of the return of Ukrainian citizens' savings. Only in the fourth convocation are 18 bills, which are almost all rejected, two which have been adopted, are imposed on them by the President's veto. Yesterday's bill, which envisions nine billion since the sale of “Criminals”. It's already a step, but it's a one-time thing, it's a return on deposits, just to let you know, only by 80 or older, our generation. This is exactly the sum of nine billion dollars. The bill that you are considering today requires that you finally establish a permanent rule in the State Budget of up to one and a half percent of GDP. Today, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I can say that this is a perfectly acceptable norm. It is possible because in three years, the budget will increase twice, from 77 billion to 134 billion. The absolute priorities of funding have been, for example, the main supervisors, such as the Tax Administration, an increase of 230 per cent in 2006, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the LRA, the judiciary, 160 per cent-195 per cent of the increase in funding. The Cabinet of Ministers has found funds to finance and build icebreakers in the Azov Sea. We just don't find the money to support our investors, we find 22 million. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support the bill, because almost all countries in the post-Radians area are now actively counting on their investors. Three weeks ago, I reported to a special commission on this matter in the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Belarus, which had made our neighbors land. Please. This bill requires. First. By one-and-a-half percent a year, they're going to put this money back on savings. To distribute, at last, the investors, and that's what all the countries in the post-Radians have done, at an age. I want to say that this rule, which was denied by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 2001, after the lengthy negotiations of the permanent commission with the Constitutional Court, today agrees to distribute by the age of our investors. First of all, give to those who suffer the most in our country today. Who's 80 and over 75 and so on and so forth. We also offered the experience of Kazakhstan, who did the following. I let the National Bank of Kazakhstan calculate the discount, a little less nominal value for those investors who are older than they are to return these savings. We have proposed a bill that will finally allow our citizens to return their contributions each year. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u102	Thank you. From the Committee, Alexander Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u103	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The distinguished Chairman of the People's Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour, considered the proposed bill of 8059 on 22 February at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis. It's very brief on the content of the bill. The main situation, new, substantially new, is as follows. First. It is proposed that the entire amount of valuable deposits be allocated to domestic government debt. On the one hand, this rule is positive because it will increase the State's responsibility to investors. On the other hand, this sharp rise in domestic government debt will result in a lower credit rating for Ukraine. The second position, which is proposed by the bill, is to increase the financing of this article to one and a half percent of the gross domestic product, is about 7 billion bracelets. So somewhere about 10 times, today 600 million is going to pay off these debts, it's going to be one and a half percent, it's going to be about 7 billion. It is proposed that compensation public bonds be issued in full. That is to say, in fact, release such securities that are released freely. I can, I can understand, buy, sell, then donate. Let's move on. These bonds can be used to pay for health services in public health institutions, as well as for tuition fees. It is proposed that the age of investors be taken into account when returning deposits. I mean, from an older generation and beyond. And the most recent amendment of the bill is proposed in article 9 of the Act to record the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers before 1 July 2006 to conduct an inventory of public obligations. So to date, there is an amount of 132, some 130 billion dollars in debt. Well, you do realize that if Kabmin, the more current Kabmin, is going to do the inventory, that amount could go down. That is, the conclusion, given the positive points, the doubtful points, the Committee has nevertheless decided to adopt the bill, to finalize it on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, the reduced procedure, please, Manchulenko, is to prepare now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u105	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plushka Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The problem that we are currently discussing has touched all citizens of Ukraine, is extremely painful. In virtually every election meeting, this question is raised by people: how, when the problem is settled. I think it is our moral duty to meet our citizens’ wishes with a view to offering an acceptable mechanism to recover the savings of Ukrainian citizens. And this bill that we're currently considering, according to the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, is going to meet Ukrainian citizens in order to resolve this problem and not to delay its full resolution for many, many, many decades, for the future. It is also positive that savings can be used to pay for health care, especially for older people who do not have adequate funds to buy medicines to be treated fully in health care facilities. And you can also use it to pay, for example, for children, for higher public institutions on a government basis, it's also a particular problem, because, unfortunately, most of our citizens don't have the financial capacity to give their child a proper education. I think the figure that's going to be set here is one and a half percent of the gross domestic product, which is probably the minimum that it takes to solve the problem sufficiently in the near future. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption of the bill, of course we would like the problem to be settled in such a way as to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general, although unfortunately there are some remarks to it, particularly as to the fact that the provision on the order of use of funds aimed at the payment of State compensation bonds is being developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But unfortunately, this is not the case, and who approves this procedure, perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should not only develop this procedure but also approve it. So there are still some shortcomings in this bill. Perhaps we should accept it in the first reading with the fact that if it is prepared perhaps the 4th of April yet Parliament will accept it in the second reading, as a whole. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party calls for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u106	The Ukrainian People supported, the People's Party also supports for sure. Thank you. Masenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u107	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the People's Block of Lithuania not only supports this bill, but Ekaterina Alexandrovna Fomenko is also a member of the People's Block of Lithuania and the author of this bill. So the position of the People's Block of Lithuania is clear. I repeat the main points, the main points are that one-and-a-half percent per year of gross domestic product, which is about 7 billion, owe to the public and give to our citizens. If this had been done, this bill or this logic would have been done by our country in 1991, we would have forgotten this problem today for several years. Because financial security is the most important thing. Thus, I must tell you, dear colleagues, that the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine supports this bill precisely in terms of the motivation for economic financial security and the possibility of paying this money annually. Therefore, based on this logic, I would like to remind you and our distinguished radio audiences and TV viewers that the Ekaterina Alexandrovna Fomenko bill has begun to develop only as a member of the fourth call. That's why he went to our rostrum so hard. And the next moment, it's no less important. The issue of the return of savings from Sberbank arises to some extent before each election. However it may arise, the executive branch has not in all four years offered an effective mechanism for the repayment of this debt in full. So when it comes to whether or not there can be financial security today, I want to say that when the budget was 70 billion dollars. the annual amount of $400 million, which was estimated at $400 million. This year it is 134 billion. a gives $600 million to the United Nations Development Programme. Thus, the executive branch does not offer real changes and proposals to address this problem. On this point, once again, I would like to address everyone, without exception, in full solidarity with our Chairman's position, to say: Let us just vote on at least the first reading. And if we vote, that means that some part of our commitments, as the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly, will be fulfilled before our citizens. If not, well, God judges those who do not vote. The only wish and proposal is to actually publish the results of the vote in the media. Let us be responsible for our actions and actions. The position of the Lithuanian People's bloc is expressed by me. I know that the absolute majority of factions are willing to vote for this. So let's do it and vote it off. We will take a step forward to address this very difficult but very important issue for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u108	“Avoke” – how do we understand this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u109	We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u110	Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u111	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Now, look, we're looking at this picture: what is the unity that all political parties are going to the rostrum today, and everyone claims to support this bill? If the elections were to take place at least once a six - year period, look, maybe when the shifts in that direction would have been. Because what you're going to see right now is how many commercials there are on TV commercials, and every second there's an average of $100, or 500 dollars, is worth, if you don't have to look at the screen and lie to people again, and take the money that goes into the commercial and give away the lost savings. Most parties still have this money stolen, so what's not going to do is really humane and not give it to those they were taken from in their own time. I'd like anyone who wants to make that offer. We know who has this money, where they are, take such a step in front of people, and before the elections, they're going to have enough to go on, and give it back to the trust fund. What are we talking about? When Manchulenko says that it's going to be possible to heal at the expense of these savings, isn't it embarrassing to say that? We have a record in the Constitution that medical care should be free of charge, so why would we be directing these coins there? If I took one and a half percent of GDP a year and this size, I explained this situation where 6 or 7 billion a year. Count the debt, if we're going to have a decline in production, a decrease in GDP, it's going to take about 20 years to get those savings back. And we all say in our programs that we should do it faster, unless we return it in half a percent in a short time. Let's just say, if we go this way, it's still not going to be solved and we don't have to fool people, because before the election, we're all so smart. And what we need to do is to make 5 percent of the GDP go into the next parliament, then it will be real, and as our Communist Party program in Ukraine says that we can get these savings back in five years, not stretch them out for 15 or 20 years. So I think it would be wise to just make some declarations right now and make some statements, and pretend that we're going to show you how good we have been for four years, we've been strangers to our constituents, and now we want to show you that we're voters. I'm the author of the bill, you don't have those words, I support you, and the faction will vote in favour of this bill. I'm just stressing once again what we're going to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u112	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the Communist Party of Ukraine, which forms the left front of the people's proposals, came up with several thousand proposals to improve our program and worked on nine national decrees. One of these national decrees touches on the return of citizens’ savings. And the essence of it, my colleague Masenko, I was grateful to him, and I said, for five years, to return completely everything that was saved and all that was now on the savings books. But to some extent, here's the discussion, including this bill that we're discussing, we're going to support it, it's okay. This is kind of like a scarf we're kind of putting a shadow on the knitting. Power and property have been stolen from the people, and now, from the rostrum of this bourgeois parliament, famous forces shed tears of crocodile tears. We're looking for full debt repayment mechanisms. Okay. And the mechanism is like that. Gentlemen! Gentlemen! Return voluntarily until it is too late everything you stole from the people: factories, factories, steamships, oil and gas wells. And to that. Guys, don't be a fool, vote for the communists, not for those who've been around you for 15 years. Only under such conditions will this matter be resolved in a fundamental way once and for all. And I thank you all for your attention, and I propose to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u114	Yes. Question completed. Short-term procedure. Who mentioned it? Who did he mention? Who was I calling? I called Manchulenko Masenko? All of it. Now. Now. Let's vote, let's figure it out. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. [[on the sources of the cost of the return of citizens' savings]] Registration number 8059. Please vote. [[13:08:24]] For 283 Decision taken. In general, can we accept? Who's behind it? There's a denial, well, fine. Yes, it was accepted in the first reading. Manchulenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u115	George Manchulenco, 203rd constituency. Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. I like the self-critical approach of Deputy Masenka. And I hope that he will continue to hold that position. And the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party thanks all colleagues for supporting the bill. We hope that such actions by many political forces will not only be linked to the electoral campaign, but always by some political forces and others will be on the watch for Ukrainian interests and will not be so populist and self - critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, stop. Dear colleagues, let's not have any debts, there are three more bills left. We either vote them or we don't vote. No, no, no. And let's move on to different things. And let's move on to different things. Who's in favour of adopting a draft law on the characteristics of privatization of expert technical centres in the first reading? Registration number 8615. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:10:09]] Z-71 So, who's in favour of adopting the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences? [[on the responsibility for the implementation of Samin and apparatus for its manufacture]] Registration number 7533. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:10:45]] For 106 The factions, please. Who wants to chase him? “Regions of Ukraine” – 14, Communists – 49, Block of Timoshenko – 0, People's Party – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 13, Socialists – 8, National Block – 15, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party and National Movement 1, “Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs” – 3, “Rebirth”, “Reforms and Orders”, non-fractional – 0. Yes, Sam will live. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused to Persons by Unlawful Acts of Intelligence, Judicial Investigation, Prosecutor's Office and Court. [[on the publication of decisions on the rehabilitation of a person]] Registration number 8226. Please vote. Vote. [[13:11:50]] For 252 They voted, adopted in the first reading the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Reparations. Dear colleagues, now, now, now will be for reasons, except you're not in the same frame of reference. Yes, dear colleagues, yesterday, you and I discussed the draft Law amending article 229 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences concerning the Authorisations of the Chief State Inspectorate on Road Transport. Registration number 8490. Who's in charge of getting back to the subject? Please vote. Vote. [[13:12:44]] For-147 Not supported. Yeah, one more thing. Last night you and I failed to get a few votes, too, in the second reading of the Law on Social Rehabilitation of Persons Who Have Suffered From a Terrorist Act or Diversion. All the notes and notes of the apparatus’s management are taken into account. We just didn't work out. Who's in charge of coming back today to consider Bill 2402-1? Please vote. [[13:13:38]] For 243 Thanks for coming back. I am voting on the adoption, as a law, of the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act, of persons who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act, registration number 2402-1. Please vote. This is the law of deputies who are no longer deputies. [[13:14:07]] For 261 Thank you, copy. Please sign up for different things. Light up, please. We'll take an hour. Please, Bondarchuk Alexander, prepare Shurmi. Passing the word to George Buiko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u117	George Boiko, Communist faction, anti-fascist committee. On March 3, in Kiev, an antifascist forum was held in Kiev, where delegates from 32 political parties and public organizations from all parts of Ukraine took part in the presence of the press and representatives of international organizations. It has been noted that the reorientation of modern - day Ukraine’s politics by means of neophasism is becoming more and more tangible. Particularly aggressive was Nephasicism after the so - called orange revolution, and within a year of their reign, they put the country at the brink of political and economic catastrophe. Neophasist organizations legally promote their ideology, have representatives of the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities, and have financial capital and information influence. They actively use methods such as extreme nationalism, the burning of enmity between nations, and the beginning of friendly countries. Propaganda of cruelty, violence, pornography, violent Ukrainianization and anti - Russian hysteria, discrimination against people on linguistic, national, and religious grounds, social demagogism, falsification of history, disinformation and lies, and pathological anticommunism. The events in Yugoslavia, the horrors and destruction and the death of Slobodan Milosovic from the fault of the barbarians of The Hague have shown that nationalism and neofascism lead to the disunity of peoples, civil war, and the loss of statehood. We call on all the patriotic and progressive forces to unite in the fight against the aggressive expansion of neo-fascist ideology and its manifestations in Ukraine, to stop trying to rehabilitate the UN and the UPA, to ban the activities of modern neo-fascist organizations, to refuse Ukraine's accession to NATO, to fully integrate and develop brotherly relations with Russia, Belarus and other SND countries, to grant Russian language state status, to protect other languages of the peoples of Ukraine, to ensure the rights of traditional religious denominations, to ensure that the State does not intervene in church affairs, to ensure social security for the population. And as a first step, take the Communist draft law on the status and social protection of Ukrainian citizens who suffered from UN and UPA during the Great War and the postwar period.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u118	Yes, please, Shurma Igor. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u119	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition bloc “NO YES!” [[united]] Any matter that was taken up during their annual reign by the “oranges” ended in a complete failure, and more specifically by crises. Ukraine faced this kind of orange rule: If the authorities announce something that changes its purpose, it is inevitable that there will be a crisis. Unfortunately, the organization of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in performing the “oranges” did not become an exception to this sad rule. The inability of power to ensure the free will of the people in the March 26 elections is obvious. The creation of a civil council with the President of Ukraine to ensure the exercise of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens during the 2006 elections is a separate evidence of a lack of authority. More of the eloquent lynching of power could not wait. After creating the council, the President acknowledged that he and his government no longer controlled the situation in the country and did not guarantee that elections would be held without violation. The opposition bloc claims that the President's next toy -- democracy, the public council -- is merely a banal broad called to cover up the consequences of orange power's inaction in organizing the electoral process. In addition, the Council’s security detail reveals another purpose — harassment of opposition. And we are truly sorry that the president of Patton’s Academy of Sciences was involved in this organization, and his name has been used abruptly in an unrighteous matter. In fact, cynicism and ossification are the norm for oranges. No one is talking to the authorities about not being ready for elections, but it is not real enough to make it work. And among the problems, first of all, not the willingness of election committees to vote. Second, the uncompletiveness of the electorate. Third, imperfect electoral lists. Above all, this is stated by the same committee of voters in Ukraine, and the use of administrative resources by officials and business managers is increasing. But the biggest problem remains the massive falsification of voter lists. Given the magnitude of this phenomenon, we do not rule out that in Ukraine they are trying to implement the Georgian script through the falsification of lists and not allowing the unfavourable electorate to vote. It remains to be expected that the authorities will not be able to bring the matter to an end. The Electoral Block “NO YES! ” states that the preparation of elections by the authorities is very unsatisfactory. The government, despite calls by both actors and public organizations, is in fact not taking any action to overcome the major problems that the election process itself can pose, and its results are questioned. From “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” considering that this is the last election meeting, I want the citizens of Ukraine who have survived this terrible year to say: "Dear dear friends of Ukrainian citizens, everything will be wrong, everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u120	George Manchulenko. To prepare Katuszevi, Sirenko passes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u121	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a few of the problems of the Chernobyl area that require the intervention of the Centre and the financial assistance of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, such as the problems of the Bucharest Carpathians, the status of the mountain population. Sadly, Travelling, no Vicincial, no part of the Watch Tower region receives adequate budget subsidies for living in difficult mountain climate conditions. The next problem is the accident at Chernobyl’s AES. This is the problem of the Kismen and Zastavninski districts. There is also a lack of response from the center. I am no longer referring to the problems associated with the operation of the Lopushnian oil plant in the Visniki district of Cherniewec. Regrettably, the income from the exploitation of this plant is not paid to local budgets but paid in other areas. An extremely acute energy and environmental problem is the problem of upgrading the Dniestrów Hydroaccumulative Power Plant. If the government does not turn its back on this problem, we may have dangerous consequences for the failure of this hydroaccumulation plant. The problems of the city of Novodnystrovska Černovetsek region, an energy city where the builders Dniestrovské GES and GAES live, are extremely acute. There is always a great deal of fighting to get the money out of the central budget for the city’s energy subsidies. It is not possible to mention the problems of transport communication, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine unfortunately does not implement the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval of Ukraine as a Transit State for 2002-2010. This law, which I coauthored, was adopted in 2002. I believe that with the events that are taking place in Transnistria, the Cabinet of Ministers will come face to face with this, to the fulfillment of this law. Similar or other problems occur in virtually all areas of the Ukrainian State. And it is the Ukrainian People’s Block that focuses our voters on the problems that exist both in the economy and in society, and in ecology, and in science, medicine, health, and education. So those elements that are now in favor of power, which are rocking the Ukrainian state boat, which are trying to speculate on bilinguality, are trying to speculate on other things that are leading the oligarchs behind their backs to the Ukrainian Parliament, should not be supported by conscious Ukrainian citizens. The Ukrainian People's Block points out to our voters that only the forces that stand in the position of strengthening the Ukrainian statehood that stand in the position of protecting the Ukrainian citizen who stands in the position of supporting the Ukrainian producer can be duly represented in Parliament. I appeal to you for the support of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u122	We use the administrative resources of the Supreme Council. Katusheva, please. Get ready, Klimpus passes the Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u123	The Communist faction, Katusheva. Our dear fellow countrymen. I address you on behalf of my comrades-in-law of the Communist factions of the Supreme Council and Ukraine. It was with this welcome that I started my monthly report on direct air on Crimea and Radio Crimea in front of the criminals. Today there are many who wish to address you, but unfortunately the Rules will not allow everyone to do so, so I think my friends, my comrades, will allow me to speak for them, because it is the faction of the Communists that we have proudly called the People's Deputies all four years. It was we, the faction, who worked as a single organism, did everything we could to improve the well-being of our people, to defend your legitimate interests, the interests of the Power, your legitimate constitutional rights. Hundreds of thousands of your petitions have been carefully studied by us. Believe me, we have done everything we can, we have experienced with you, and perhaps more, even you when we have failed. Your pain was our pain. We rejoiced in the victories that we have been able to stand up for your interests. Thank you so much for the support we've always felt. There's another election coming up, and it's up to you who you lead to power. Remember that every nation deserves the power it chooses and, before you drop the ballot in the urn, remember that these are your weapons and you, everyone, depend on the way the country goes, what future you choose for your children and grandchildren. Life itself proves that only the restoration of Soviet power will give people a decent life. Let's take a brief look at the time before the collapse and after the collapse of the USSR. The Stalin era, in three five years, we from a destroyed country have made our country a super-Power, won a war, created nuclear weapons. The Khrushchev era, mass construction, millions of free housing, raised the whole, took over space. The Brežev era has increased industrial production, the right to work, free treatment and education in two years. And even the Jewish era of Gorbachev is a publicity, has opened an iron curtain, and almost 15 years of independence, marked by the collapse of the country, the destruction of the population, the spread of drug abuse, AIDS, prostitution, the decline of the population of Ukraine. We lose in peacetime.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u124	The rest of you, please, Mishura gives the word to Radion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u125	Igor Ostas, civic “PORA-PRP” Block. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I would like to say that, indeed, we are indignant that we have not yet put to the vote the issue of removing the MP's in touch with the local council. Moreover, we believe that we also need to do everything possible to remove the parliamentary immunity from the Ukrainian national MPs, because unfortunately, I fear that in the next Parliament there will be a lot of people sitting here who have very serious problems with the law. And I am convinced that we must now raise the entire Ukrainian society and make sure that the members of the Supreme Council are also not untouchable. By the way, that's what their husbands and women would want. Dear friends! I would like to tell him that he should remember that their first number on the list has done everything possible to give the Black Sea fleet, to give our citizens savings, to destroy the Light, and you have no moral right to talk about what the new power is not working right now. Therefore, the people say very correctly that your bloc should not only be called “No Yes”, but also “not so” “not there” and “not today”. Dear friends! I would like to stress once again what we have done today, at least one of our little responsibilities, and we have adopted a bailout bill. Of course, one-and-a-half percent of GDP is small, of course, we have to increase, and here, I'm even supporting the communists, we have to increase this percentage, and obviously we have to create a fund for the return of savings, where these are the biggest enterprises going to privatize, and we have a lot of other giants in front of us, to actually account for the percentage of that kind of savings return fund. I would also like to say that the money that is now paid for the “Criminal” in large amounts would also, of course, go towards the reimbursement of these costs. Dear friends, of course, we believe that Parliament will be in the next fight against corruption. This is the main goal of the citizen block “PORA-PRP” and we would also like to see a radical change in the situation in Kiev, because, as you know, “fish always spoils from the head” and we will do everything we can to ensure that the young team, and the leaders of Vitali Klick, come to the mayor and, accordingly, work for the Chinese, not for a bunch of people who hide under the roof of Kiev City Administration today. I would like to say that, indeed, the time has come for young, unspotted politicians to seriously rejuvenate the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why I call on all of our voters to cast their votes in favour of No 20 on the list - the citizen's “PRA-PRP” bloc. Remember your times when you were, whether you were, 20 years old. It's probably the best time of your life. Don't forget, vote in favour of 20 – citizen block “PORA-PRP”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u126	Yes, Rodionov, please follow him Mironenko. From the place of Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u127	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I want to tell you a strange story, at first glance, about the support of a domestic producer. You all know that we live off production and the better production, the better life. In Ukraine, it is not just lazy. But the situation with the domestic producer is very, very sharp. I'm going to give you an example of how they're fighting corruption right now. In his letter to me, the management of the Antares international campaign emphasizes that Ukraine's strategic resource is a titanium sponge produced from national resources rather than contributing to the development of the Ukrainian industry being supplied to enterprises of other countries and filling off-shore accounts of employers. A monopolistic production of titanium raw material in Ukraine today is a time-consuming enterprise called the Zaporezian Titanium Combine. According to customs records, in the first half of 2005, the titanium sponge produced this combination was shipped at a deming price of $5 or 7 per kilogram of middle-sized company registered in London. This middle-sized firm is already selling scarce raw materials to foreign companies and it's already worth $20 to $25, and it's going back to the Ukrainian factory for processing like donor raw materials. Whether or not the interests of the people of Ukraine are betrayed, the question is unnecessary. They're betrayed twice. For the first time, when profits from the sale of titanium sponges are found in offshors, and for the second time, when profits from the production of Ukrainian companies made from donor raw materials, or so - called titanium alloys, are already made in a foreign firm. Of course, it's a crime. There are numerous publications on such “trouble ” about a domestic producer, parliamentary appeals. The last one for this appeal to Parliament today has been announced by me. But the authorities have no desire to expose and destroy criminal and corruption schemes that exist in the Titanic, as in other fields, including businesses in Ukraine. The only political force capable of destroying corruption is the Communist Party of Ukraine. And the only candidate on the city's head, Kiev, who can solve these problems, the problems of a domestic producer is the Communist Party candidate Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. So I want to vote for the communists and your future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u128	Mironenko Victor. Get ready for Karpov. You don't? Then there's Zarubinski Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u129	Crimea, Mironenko, the Communist faction. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly insisted and demanded Ukraine's entry into the Union of Russia and Belarus, the creation of a single economic space with a view to restoring Ukraine's beneficial economic ties with a view to increasing the economic growth and living standards of our people. But the last plenary week of the current legislature shows that if the same pro-American deputies come to power, Ukraine will have anxious days, possibly tragic days. The influential pro-American leaders, who call themselves Democrats, Nationalists and so on, have done their utmost to ensure that no single economic space is created. The plans of the United States to force entry through their deputies in Ukraine are disturbing, Ukraine's entry into NATO after March 2006 in order to prevent the economic and political association of Ukraine-Russia, although it is beneficial for our peoples. In 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill on the need for the creation of a single economic space in Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, with a view to achieving significant economic growth and raising the standard of living of the people. However, apart from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, no faction has consistently voted in favour of the creation of the Single Economic Area and this is very sad. On 9 February 2006, 223 deputies voted in favour of one of the bills proposed by the Communist faction to create a single economic space, i.e. only three votes were needed for adoption. This has dismayed the lords of the orange factions, forced pro-American deputies to vote in a more disciplined manner, in accordance with the will of American puppeteers who do not wish to create a single economic space. The world-dominating U.S. policies, furious with Yugoslav and Iraqi blood, are trying to colonize the world, including Ukraine, through bribery, intimidation by some leaders, Ukrainian politicians. They're actually trying to turn Ukraine into their puppet. The Communist faction has repeatedly presented this concern at parliamentary meetings. Dear compatriots, if we do not want this course to continue, we must ensure the victory of the force that is consistently fighting for your interests. Well, in the city of Kiev, we're gonna win the communist election of the capital of Kiev. Only in this way can we put an end to this terrible policy. To ensure a policy shift towards the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u130	Yes. Zarubinski has the word. But he also gave him three minutes of Yukhnowsky. Oleg, that's six minutes. Get ready for Phydenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u131	Addressing the People’s bloc of Lithuania to the people of Ukraine Dear compatriots, citizens of Ukraine! The situation in our country is disturbing and demands decisive action, unity, wisdom, and reasonableness on our part. History is aware of the times when the inner tension in society reaches the critical mark of mistrust, hostility, and hatred. You can pretend that there is order and peace in the countries, you can talk about success and victory, you can close your eyes to problems, but whether this will lead to the truth. It's time to stop blaming each other and find out who's responsible for our troubles. Those who continue to divide Ukrainian citizens into theirs and foreigners, speculating on secondary things and forgetting the main slogan of our national being are the unity of the country above all. Party slogans, politicians' ambitions, populism, demagogies and the surrounding government must give in to one principle: all now Ukraine's future. Instead of Ukraine within the borders of Galicina and not Ukraine within the borders of Donbas, there is one large, strong, authoritative, prosperous Ukraine in which every citizen lives worthy. You can cut out an excess percentage of votes in the elections and lose Ukraine, whether it's a path for politicians and more statesmen. Too often the interests of the people and the interests of Ukraine are ignored. Too often laws are ignored and too often the rule of law dominates political purpose. That's why Ukrainian politicians have to act on the principle of doctors -- no harm. We can speak in different languages, but we have common thoughts and desires, we can pray and sing in different ways, we can sing, we can sing in different ways, but our prayers and our hopes will apply to the same thing. The modern world gives us examples of reconciliation of different interests within one state for one purpose in the future, both Switzerland and Canada and other countries. Should we ignore the possibility of turning Ukraine into an Eastern European Switzerland? Would it be more comfortable for the Ukrainians to live in their regional and weak, productive princes? Let's think about how to save Ukraine. Let us consider what we need to do to ensure that both the daughter - in - law and the croquet and the Kyiv, and the Levite, and the inhabitants of Crimea, feel that they belong to one great nation. Let's see Ukraine in all its variety. Let us take the history of Ukraine not only as the history of the nation of the title, but as the history of all the peoples who lived in this territory and created its culture, its faces that make up its future. This will be a real concern for true assembly. The Lithuanian people’s bloc is convinced that acute issues of modern times need to be addressed, not by mutual accusations, but by a climate of mutual mistrust and hostility, but by negotiations, compromises and consensus. We need to look for an understanding. Understanding should become the primary of our existence. We refer not only to ordinary Ukrainians but also to political leaders and statesmen. We may have different views about tactical tasks. But the strategic goal is to have one that all ambitions and contentions -- Ukraine -- come before. We have to work in the same direction, ending the revolution and the counter revolution, the swing between Washington and Moscow. To keep politics open to one another is very difficult, but it is necessary. Deception and mutual mistrust will not undermine the country’s strong structure. We believe that we have the wisdom not to deepen our conflict. Under new conditions, when parity is established between the President and the Supreme Council, just as there is a parity between power and opposition, Parliament can be dissolved every day or impeached to the President. The transfer of Ukraine’s capital to Lviv or Donetsk can be announced every day. You can't deny it at the center's decision-making sites. Is this the way to prosperity? Is that what we all want? Do we not have other, higher and eternal ideals? They're convinced that there is. With faith in the wisdom of the people and the future of Ukraine, the National Block of Lithuania. Our number in the ballot box is 39.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u132	Stanislaw Phydenko, get ready. Kirichenko gave the word to Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u133	Dear voters, I, like my colleagues, do not take part in the election for the first time, I must testify that in these elections, more than ever, we meet with expressions of sympathy from voters to candidates from the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you. We are very grateful to the voters for this, and we wanted them to be able to build up the right results. And at the same time, I would like to remind you that our list in the election ballot to the Supreme Council, the Communist Party's list number eight. Adam Ivanovich, honourable Adam Ivanovich, I would also like to see my presentation as a member of the Supreme Council as well as a request to the head of the Supreme Council and to the head of the Central Electoral Commission. The thing is, today on Volina we've encountered, not just in Volina, but in other areas, we've encountered wild cases where we've been manipulated by voter lists. In all seven constituencies in the Volin region, for example, the electoral lists include citizens who have died in the last 10 years, even more, and who have never lived before and now do not live by these addresses. There are cases where one voter is listed on two locations, or individual voters who live at a certain address, and the voters are not listed at all. Such facts are common in all districts, but most of them are in our cities. For example. In Lutsk, most polling stations have found dead souls on electoral lists from 150 to 200 and more on each field. Well, there's an invitation to the 4th dead and the 6th who didn't live here. The tragedy of these horrendous acts of orange power is also evidenced by this fact. One mayor of one town on Volina, I'm not going to call who signed these voters' lists and sent home an invitation to his father's election, so if you'll excuse me for who died a long time ago. But this speaks of our negligence, our negligence. A terrible situation with voter lists in Koveli The voter lists number hundreds of people living in nonexistent homes, more than one and a half dozen in Ukraine’s Boulvar Forest alone. The voter lists included dozens of people who died 5, 10, 15 years ago. There is reason to believe that the voter lists were deliberately increased by local executive authorities, representatives of “Our Ukraine”. The writing of this political force is seen in such a wild case when one citizen of the former who died in 1991 was brought here on their greeting form with Christmas Cross, this is their copy, and here is a testimony that he actually died. I don't call my last name so it doesn't hurt family or family. This results from the fact that all of this was done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u134	Please, Isaiah. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u135	Statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions. “Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Devoted citizens of Ukraine! The incident that took place last Saturday in the Krasnokut region of Kharkiv region again makes us talk about the cynicism of orange power, both at the Centre and on the ground, and about the contempt of the opinion of citizens. The head of the territorial electoral commission Vasili Vasilievich Nikolayev made a comment, listen to the head of the Regional Electoral Headquarters of Block “Our Ukraine” Yuri Petrovicz Vlasenko, who in general undermined the symbolism of the Party of the Regions. He, by the way, is now the Deputy Rajgosadistration of the Krasnokut region of Kharkiv region. In response, a local official and his brother attacked a third - group invalid and brutally beaten him. Vassili Nikolayev is now in the Kharkiv Regional Hospital with concussion, multiple facial injuries and cranial trauma. This further crime committed by the representatives of the oranges on the ground shows that the orange team has been sent from the centre by any means to remain in power and blackmail, threats, threats to intimidate people so that they do not vote for the “Regions” party. National MP Vasily Saligin visited the victim's hospital. He told him that they were not human beings, they were beasts, they hit him with their feet, like fascists, with threats. The man was simply overwhelmed by this beastly hatred of those who had beaten him. Eyewitnesses explained the beating, residents of the village of Kozyevka were outraged by the willfulness and permissiveness of the current authorities, especially since they beat a man only for his political views as vice-chairman of the Rajgosad administration! Another fact strikes. The same national MP, Saligin, went to the head of the Krasnokut Rajgosadmiration, where the official in the presence of the deputy, as well as the procurator of the area, read the explanations of the injured and false explanations of Vlasenko and indicated how to act to local authorities. This is because the head of the administration has no right to interfere with the electoral campaign. That's where Minister Lucenko's real clients are. This fact once again proved that power was capable of a crime against the electorate, and it challenged society as a whole. The faction of the “Regions” party is strongly protesting against the willfulness and permissiveness of power and calls upon the current leaders of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski. Next Grzezhev. He's handing it over to Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u137	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, voters, a few words about today’s orange power and its action. It is clear that there is a power in Ukraine that controls economic and political space, but it is clear that it does not want to use authority for the benefit of society. The worst part is that it is based on political proximity and the high expectations of many of our fellow citizens and the oligarchy capital. In recent times, the rulers of Ukraine have been getting deeper and deeper into the nation. to the webs of the so-called European and American civilization, we see and try to get as many Western loans as possible under questionable state and private arms such as strengthening the military force, improving statistics, distributing land, rebuilding airports. Today, there is a clear trend toward widening the gap between the United States and the European Union because of the contrast between strategic interests and leadership. Apparently, Western politicians understand that, but ours don't. Having forgotten the historical past, they have come into conflict with Belarus, Russia, Turkmenistan, and have chosen strategic partners in Romania, Poland, and the United States. It is evident that the aggressiveness of foreign political America will in time lose its leadership in the world. Europe, on the other hand, can choose Russia as its strategic ally. In appreciation of the present, we need to remember that Europe and the United States do not see Ukraine as a subject of international relations. To them, our nation is an object, a nocturnal territory, that is to become a protectorate. By demeaning yourself with constant concessions, above all, before the EU, we cannot go to their “high level” because the EU expects 160 million ostrichs to arrive by 2025. [[in quotes]] Hence, any program associated with their integration into cultural space by forming a respectable attitude toward the country will result in a failure. With Ukraine’s similar drive to the EES, it can be forgotten as a national state. Today, Mr. Yushchenk, Mr. Yehanurov and others should listen to the leaders of the EU, who themselves are prophesying Ukraine's admission into their structures 20 years later, it is not better to lead the economy of Ukraine alone “without hope” of anyone. Ukrainian Communists believe that economic recovery depends directly on cooperation with the Russian Federation and the SND countries. Cooperation with the West will drain our morale and raw resources. So the rules of the game in Ukraine are to make the people themselves without other people's efforts in ideological imagery. However, it will only be the same when the Ukrainian people elect to Parliament on March 26 most of the representatives from the Company, which has national economic and political programmes, the staff potential, its number in election ballots -- eight. The support of Communist candidates from the Communist Party at all levels is the guarantee of a fair future authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u138	Please, Mikola Sadowa, instead of Grozyev. Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u139	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear radio listeners, today I'm going to report to mothers whose children are suffering from brain disease. Dear mothers who have asked me to give a speech to their letter at the Supreme Council meeting, yesterday Adam Ivanovich placed in the order of the day the issue of the allocation of funds for the acquisition of gamma-scissors. The MPs voted. Now, dear mothers, I need your support so that these funds are promptly allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers and spent on children in need of treatment. Socialists – Frost, Nikolainko, Seminouk and others – initiated the Savings Recovery Act as early as 1997. The second attempt was made in 2003 - 2006. The Socialist faction in the Supreme Council is not going to expand or engage in populism. We do good practical things because we were, we are, and we will be. However, it is disturbing that the clans have been dispersed, for which profit is clouded by reason of mind, conscience, and honor, which they have long forgotten. What I said became acute in the Kirovograd region, and especially in the city of Kirovograd. There can really be a break in the election. There has long been a habit of obeying the law, of permissiveness, of persecution, of seizing the hebilitating rule of lying in order to destroy his unrighteous works. In the city of Kirovograd, power of the previous regime remained. Mer Chigrin's still working. As early as 2004, he had obtained a request from the heads of the administrations of Mesquikkon to release his job at his own request on November 22. He never answered my MP's call. That is how he rules today. What does the clan of the Sharites and the Hilchens do in Kirovograd? Two brothers, Yuri and Alexander, did not serve in the police, were counted in positions. There they were assigned the rank of colonels, and they were granted pensions. Isn't this a robbery of true pensioners? One of them is back in the MPs to hide behind the MP’s inviolability. Because a criminal case is already open on this issue. There is in Kirovgrad the newspaper “Knowledge Plus”, which is founded by Jacek, as a child, in the youth of Sharov. There's a web phrase that belongs to that clan where lies are born and distributed. They're going after Frost, Nicholas, and so on. They also seem to be lying about what I allegedly asked for in Lithuania for two million dollars to buy an apartment. On this lie, no one swore from journalists in all of Ukraine. But they lie because they fear the truth, fear the responsibility for what they have hoped. For looting the land of Cyrus, property belonging to and belonging to the city’s citizens. Dear radio listeners, do not vote for those who lie and compromise themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u140	Yes. Please, Mother of Olga. To prepare, Matthew passes on Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u141	Olga Kobec, Ukrainian People's Movement faction, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”. I'm listening to today's performances by our national deputies and I'm talking about the middle of the last century and the famous French philosopher Simone Vail, who made a call in France during the period of World War II. That is how I would like to urge our voters today to mention such words as immorality, such as blasphemy, such as unrighteousness, word fornication. Because, unfortunately, they can be applied to the speeches of many and many speakers today. For example, it is the highest blasphemy in 1991 to vote against Ukraine’s independence, to make violent opposition to the National Flag and to the State Hymn of Ukraine appear in these walls. 14 years not to make a decision about the Great Herb of Ukraine, not to vote for the budget, not to vote for other extremely important laws that would establish the justice and legitimate interests of the Ukrainian nation, but to sit here all these years, in this room, to receive a salary from an independent Ukrainian state. It is blasphemy to file a draft law on fear and disaster that some Ukrainian citizens have allegedly suffered since the Second World War from so-called thugs and, meanwhile, to forget that it is this political force that is responsible for the death of millions and millions of our fellow citizens, beginning in February 1918, when just here, at the walls of today's Supreme Council that more than 5,000 kyans were shot just because they were walking in Ukrainian embroidery, spoke Ukrainian or wore Ukrainian whiskers, among other things, Russian White Guard participants who declared military neutrality were also shot. An immorally high official, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, sided with the people who went out to defend the independence of the state and the right to free expression, but for the past six months from this same rostrum publicly repented of this position. There's a lot to talk about, but I think our voters will figure out who to vote for, which is the majority that this Supreme Council needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u142	Yes, please, Solomon, instead of Matthew. Constantine, I can't see. Pomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u143	Solomonine, the Communist faction. A small Ukrainian remembers that all of us from the USSR, on 16 July 90, the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic adopted the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine. It stated: “The declaration is the basis for the new Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and determines the position of the Republic in the conclusion of international treaties. The principles of the Declaration on the Sovereignty of Ukraine are used for the conclusion of the Federal Treaty. 15 years ago, on 17 March 1991, the Allied referendum on the preservation of the Union was held. The question proposed for the vote was: do you agree that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics needs to be preserved as an updated federation of equal sovereign republics? 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens answered that question. At the same time, on the same day, an all-Ukrainian survey was conducted and this was proposed: do you agree that Ukraine should be part of the Union of Soviet Sovereign States on the basis of the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine? And 80 per cent of citizens answered that question. Following the sad events of August 1991, the Supreme Council of the USSR adopted the Act declaring Ukraine's independence, which literally stated: “In implementing the Declaration on Ukraine's State Sovereignty, the Supreme Council declares Ukraine's independence and the creation of an independent Ukrainian State, Ukraine”. Ukraine was Soviet and socialist, not bourgeois-democracy and capitalist. And the Supreme Council resolution of 1 December held the All-Ukrainian referendum, which contained the following question: do you confirm the Act on the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine? And 90 per cent of citizens responded positively to this question, representing 76 per cent of Ukrainian citizens with voting rights. There is nothing on the basis of Ukrainian independence above. It is obvious that at that time, the majority of citizens viewed the referendum only as an opportunity to expand the power of the Republic of the USSR rather than as an exit from the Union. But the political thimbles surrounded the entire Ukrainian people. And when the Supreme Council adopted the Constitution of bourgeois-Democratic Ukraine in June 1996, the Preamble states: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the people of Ukraine and citizens of Ukraine, expresses the sovereign will of the people, in accordance with the Act of Declaration of Independence of Ukraine, reaffirmed by the Universal referendum on 1 December, adopts this Constitution. Thus, gentlemen, stop cursing the people, the people voted for Ukraine as Soviet and socialist, not as bourgeois-democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u144	Yes, please, I can't see Ponomarenka. Oleg Belarus. Fomenko, Colonyari, Ruzicki, Shepetin Yes, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u145	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine. Today is the last session of the Parliament of Ukraine on the Fourth Call. We can say with satisfaction that this Parliament has largely carried out its high national mission. Parliament has become the stabilizing forum and forum of the peoples of the country, which has protected the interests of the national interests of Ukraine. And today, when we address the people with the last words of this convocation, we must make a promise in the future to the convocation of those who will be here in this session hall to perform the enormous and grand tasks that our nation faces. Our nation became sovereign legally and factually. But the historic fate of Ukraine, as a great European developed country, has not yet been finally resolved. In the area of politics, we must do everything we can to ensure that political reform, the new Constitution of Ukraine, is truly a guarantee of the effectiveness of public authority. In order for the Ukrainian peoples not only to be a phrase, but to become a real and driving engine for development, so that democracy from “Kummian democracy” can move on to our national resource of rapid and, above all, qualitative development. In the area of economics, Parliament and the entire Ukrainian people are facing the issue of economic recovery, of increasing economic growth, of increasing the quality of economic development, and of particular economic security, so that we don't have to be threatened with nitrogen or oil, because we are a rich country, we have our own resources. [[average to 10 percent of current stagnation]] Our political power - The Yulia Block Timoshenko speaks out of the principles of justice, the consolidation of all councils of citizens based on the principle of Ukrainian democratic solidarity, which reads: “Citizens of Ukraine, unite for the sake of Ukraine, for the sake of your children!” We wish the new Parliament success.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u146	Colonyari, Ruzicki, Shepetin, please. Don't break it, Rabbit, or I'll close the session. I don't have the rest of it on my monitor. I don't write myself up. Sheptin, get in place, I'll turn on the microphone. Shepetin, get in place, I'll let you out of the way. I don't care what he was like because you're not on the monitor. Shepetin, will you be speaking, or am I closing the session now?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u147	. In fact, ethics are a model of stupid and dirty piranhas that may be the first place in the current electoral campaign. The ex-executive Minister of the Interior, Mr. Lucenko, issued another pass. Acting on the principle of a well-known classic, long-described, that your daughter is a prostitute when I have two sons, but then you justify yourself in front of the voters. Yesterday, he stated that 64 former judges were on the list as a candidate for the Kharkiv Regional Council from the opposition bloc “No!!!”. I would not repeat this nonsense, and not just because there are 50 people on our list, but because it came from the person who today represents the rule of law in our State. Having listed all possible interventions, until the intentional killing, Mr. Lucenko, despite repeated warnings given to him in court during this electoral campaign, continues his black work. Oh, that's the face of today's power. And if the President of Ukraine does not understand this and his team can act in such a calm manner, you can judge for yourself how far we are from a real democracy where a person can defend himself against the law. I would like to address the party leader, Mr. Lucenko, of the People's Deputy Alexander Moroz, who, while in opposition for many years, has been honest politicians with the question of being honest in opposition and being honest in power. It's the same thing. And if you, Alexander Alexandrovich, believe that this is the same thing, please evaluate your blown-up party deputy. And this statement I ask to consider an official MP's request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to explain to me the crimes committed, including the 14 people that Mr. Lucenko added to our list. In conclusion. I want to thank my countryman for having voted in favour of holding the All-Ukrainian referendum “NATO-NET! A single economic space – YES!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u148	Yes. Once again, dear fellows, I'm in charge of my monitor, I don't have the name of Ostas and Rabbit on my monitor. Yes, Odysnik. None. Odajnik, please. Microphone from the spot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u149	Mikola Odanik, “Our Ukraine”, Winnichtina. Deputies! Dear voters! Good day to you! Good to all health, happiness, goodness, to each of your families, to each of your families. Today is practically the end of my cadence as a member of the Supreme Council 4 vocation. Once again, I would like to thank my voters for the trust you expressed to me in 2002. I thank you, and at the same time, I offer my apologies to those who have approached me and I have not complied with your request. I want you to understand, if I didn't do what I did, it's not because I didn't want to, not because I had other important things to do, but because I couldn't. I very much wish that appeals to MPs would be as small as possible so that everyone in his or her place would carry out his or her duties honestly and conscientiously. And for that, let's not miss March 26th. Let us not give in to the exhortations of those who say: “They have built a paradise in one region. We will build all over Ukraine.” I was in the region. And I don't want that kind of paradise, I don't want that kind of well-being. If what I've seen is heaven, tell me what hell is. Another team says it's not true. That's not how I get paid. Of course not. In their sense. Because they think it's necessary for teachers, doctors and almost everyone to pay their salaries, not with cowards and cobwebs, like two or three years ago, but they need to, they think that they have to pay their wages with cobwebs and cowards. And you have to pay with money. I know that today, right next to me, I'm surrounded by a team that says, "No, that's not it," they want to rip out the microphone. But what I'm going to say is, of course, is, of course, the team that says, "No, that's not the way the tailors ride, you know why? Because they've already shaved their hands off those tailors. And today I'd like to ask you not to be wrong, not to be wrong, not to be wrong, not to be wrong, not to be wronged, not to be wronged, not to be wronged, not to be wronged, not to be wronged, not to be wronged, not to be wronged. In short, honourable voters, come on, I'm talking again, let's not be mistaken. Let's take the lie away from the truth. Please leave me out of this. I lie to the truth. Why? Because lying remains a lie even when it sounds out of a very beautiful woman’s mouth. The lie remains when it sounds from the Supreme Council from those politicians who think they are eternal and are irreplaceable. But I am convinced that only the truth, only the truth, can build a nation that can be proud of the fact that it is only through the truth that we can leave our children, our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u150	Yes, Mother, Nechiporek, Piggy. Please, Usachenko. You can go to the rostrum. Ivan Alexanderovich will allow you to go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u151	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. “10 steps to meet people”, declared by the elected President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, are real and concrete in life, in the lives of the people. The new power clearly raises the ranks and levels of the state as a whole for the benefit of our Ukraine. Therefore, dear people, vote in favour of number 10 on the electoral list for “Our Ukraine”. We continue to defend human rights. So I was approached by the Ukrainian community of the villages of Voronovka in the township, Boguslavec in the Zolotani region, Zolatoni district, Zráravka in the Spilan region, Smilinski Bay and others in the Cherkas region, asking for help in solving their problems. In their statements, they noted that between 2001 and 2004, farm farms had become ruins. In the village of Vronovka and in the village of Vronovka and in the village of Vilšanski, the technology was sold out, including French production at very low prices and unknown to whom. Villagers work hard and receive a meager wage for farm produce. Young people go abroad to earn a lot of money. It should also be noted that another important problem of the Ukrainian village is its gasification. In particular, the State budget has set aside 5.5 million dollars to conduct a high - pressure gas pipeline to the village of Voronovka. One and a half million to the village of Žuravka, but the gas supply to each individual house is projected at its own expense. People’s testimony, especially the pensioners, does not provide such money, so it is not possible to get a warm home. Of course, the problems noted are extremely relevant to many villages in Ukraine and therefore require an immediate solution and adequate state support for the restoration of the Ukrainian village. In view of the above, please consider my request to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the need to create new jobs in the village, to increase wages for improving the social conditions, to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, to the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine for the provision of gasification of Ukrainian villages, to provide the necessary assistance and support to rural people who are unable to pay for the use of gas to their own homes, such as the inhabitants of the villages of Voronovka, Bohuslavec, Žuravka, Czerka Bay. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, dear. Behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u153	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! On 26 April, it has been 20 years since the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear station, a tragedy that has really turned the whole world around, not just the country, not just the continent, but literally the whole world. Many liquidators are, unfortunately, no longer alive. They did not expect sufficient attention and assistance from the State, although they had in fact gone and carried out their duty in the first place, because what they had done, with no payment, no credentials, no orders to decide and no compensation. And I have not once from this rostrum addressed the problems of social protection of liquidators and their families. I am constantly approached by this category, written by their loved ones, who remain alone, by the liquidators themselves, who have become disabled, who have generally lost their health, which is disproportionate to their age. Last time I was approached by a mother who lost her son, Koshel Nadezhda Andreevna. Her son, Košelj Vladimir Grigorijevic, was directed towards the elimination of the accident at the Chernobyl AES from the workplace. He went, as I said, not to earn money, benefits, or retirement allowance, he left, as we said at the time, to do his duty. As it turned out, when he went there, he did not survive what was measured by his fate. And today this woman is alone. Surprisingly, you can only think of the amount of lump sum compensation for the loss of a breadwinner who is a participant in the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which is determined by the relevant Cabinet of Ministers decree, I stress by the Cabinet of Ministers. It doesn't take much discussion, it doesn't take much thought, it doesn't take much. Thus, Kabina’s decision to compensate for the loss of a breadwinner, i.e., people who have lost their husbands or sons, amounts to 189 gravel 60 copies. I would very much like to look into the eyes of the official who said that, and even more so the official who doesn't have a hand to pay for that kind of stuff today. Addressing Hope Andreevna, who, sadly, lives on a minimum pension that she lacks, not for medicine and a decent life, but sometimes for a piece of bread. A woman lives alone in an apartment. The house she lives in is 47 years old. The windows, the doors, the pipes are out of order. Andreevna's hope has already been addressed to both the Cabinet Secretariat and to the President's Secretariat and, unfortunately, has received no, I stress, support. I brought one of the problems that sounds today. I gave one example. I know that on 26 April this year, many, including from the executive branch, will swear in love and devotion to Chernobyl and liquidators. I would very much like to, and this is what the entire People's Block of Lithuania insists on, that except for some discussion, except for some hot appeals, we remember that people need a particular thing. In our election campaign, the election agenda is that, and we'll get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u154	Yes, John the Rabbit. Prepare Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian nation is now at the node of its state-making being. Totalitarian forces do not want to leave the political scene, and the power of the people has not yet come. This subtle balance is sought by anti - Ukrainian, anti - state forces, counting on the indifference of the patriotic electorate. These anti-Ukrainian forces, which have been hidden under the banner of opposition, and this is the “Regions” party, the “Not so!” block, the Block of Lithuania, the Block of Vitrenko and others, have opened up in apathy, and often in the process of subduing the new power, the attack on all Ukrainians in the Ukrainian state. The election hits of the opposition, including the “Regions” and the “No!” bloc, were the issues of the Ukrainian federalization, the introduction of a second national language, the torpedoing of the European choice of the Ukrainian people. These forces are seeking their political future in destabilizing politics. They are not concerned with the economic problems, social problems, or environmental problems of their citizens. People's unemployment doesn't interest them as well as the fact that hundreds of Ukrainian mothers don't sing for their own faults to the colossal little Italians, to the Spaniards and to the Portuguese, and not to their children. The rematch of the old regime will not take place if the patriots of Ukraine do not help, there are no votes in the opposition to have a majority in Parliament, these voices can only pass through megablocks such as BUT and “Our Ukraine”, where there are dozens of oligarchs, bushmen and cosmopolitans. That's why I'm calling on Ukrainian patriots to vote for the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka, whose lists do not contain “fat cats”, today's and yesterday's oligarchs, there are no people who have stained themselves with conflicts in the new government. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka wants to give our society another alternative, the right alternative and the right alternative to Ukrainian National Democratic. For 15 years the oligarchs led us on the road to the destruction of Ukraine, a road to disunity. Today, we can get out of this crisis only if we take a national democratic, patriotic road and the Ukrainian People's Block itself provides such an alternative. The Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plushka advocates supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, for the country's main farming structure to be a farmer, we speak for the only Ukrainian language, for the recognition of the Ukrainian rebel army, for its struggle to fight for Ukraine's independence. Our number to Supreme Council No. 2 and the people say: “Are you from the city or from the village? Defend your rights, vote for number 2!" So only the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush can today provide a national democratic alternative to Ukraine’s destruction. Vote for the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u156	I knew you had a lot of talent, John Alexanderovich, and what you're a poet didn't even know. Please, Vladimir Hare. It's open.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable compatriots! I'm not going to answer my colleague's accusations, the more the one-family, the more I want to talk about the things that make up for today's issue of extraordinary importance. Indeed, on March 26, 2006, you will choose political forces to defend your interests, the interests of the State, to Parliament and the local authorities. And I would like to draw your attention to: look carefully at what political forces will be the leaders of Ukraine's foreign policy, which today is one of the most devastating, unwarranted integration into NATO. And when we are urged today that some opposition forces are making obstacles to integration into Europe, they forget to say that NATO and Europe are completely different things. What is NATO today for Ukraine? I am tired of demonstrating this document, which is called the “starting discussion document”. In line with these commitments, on the 58 pages of Ukraine, NATO has five years before NATO: from 2006 to 2011 -- Ukraine is committed to spending 92 billion dollars -- almost the entire annual budget of Ukraine. If someone's not afraid of these numbers, if that's not a serious question for anyone, please look at the commitments our government officials and our President make -- to perform the functions of the armed forces contained on page 46 of this document. It's engineering, it's exchange, it's protection against chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. I don't think these are the priorities we need today. I also don't think that NATO can generally be a guarantee of collective security in the world and a guarantee of security for Ukraine, because it's from NATO and the United States -- the leader of this military-political alliance -- that there's a war in Iraq today. Yesterday it was in Afghanistan, yesterday it was in Yugoslavia, and tomorrow it will be in Iran. And that's understandable. Moreover, Washington has identified for himself those key states that pose a threat to him, and there is already Belarus, a foreign state for us. I think we should be afraid of that. And when our authorities talk about it, and I'm talking about the relationship between Ukraine and Russia on the gas issue, that there's not going to be an increase in gas for Ukrainians, and they're cynical about it every day. I'll show you a document signed by Mr. President, addressed to Yehanurova, Rybauk and Mr. Kiriev, from April 1st, and then from September 1st, two stages of gas travels twice and four times for the population and budget organizations. [[tax administration]] It is the President and the authorities who are concerned, not with the well-being of the Ukrainians, that is, with the financial situation of NAK Naftogazu Ukraine, which is now providing gas. Do not make a mistake on March 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-17-m0.u158	Let's hope no one gets those resolutions done after March 26th, so that's why. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to make statements, to tell how good and beautiful they were, to vote for them alone and for no one else, would have the opportunity to do so. I'm really asking voters, first of all, to come to the polls, second of all, to make this choice consciously. Make such a choice so that you don’t feel bitter, that you don’t feel sorry for yourself, so that you don’t smell the back of your head and tell them you’ll believe it again. And to you, dear fellows, I wish you all to meet in a good, good, optimistic mood on April 4th for the next meeting of the Supreme Council. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We work from March 27 to March 31 in constituencies. I remind you again, the next April 4th meeting. Until we meet with the hope of the wisdom of our electorate.
