ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u1	A roll call is being made. [[10:06:56]] We were able to register 432 deputies. The morning session is open. Honourable National Deputies, in Ukraine with an official visit, are held by His Majesty, Head of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, Pavel Paska. There's a tall guest in the session room right now. I ask you to welcome him. [[Applause]] We just had a meeting with a colleague, with the members of the delegation he's in charge of. And there is an opportunity today to give a few minutes to him to express his wish from the Slovak Parliament. Please have a word with me. Paul Pashka, head of the Parliament of the Slovak Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u2	Thank you for the word. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! It is an honor for me to be able to stand in this rostrum and look you in the eye and say a few sincere words. The distance from Bratislava to Kiev is great. But from the heart of the Slovaks to the hearts of the Ukrainians, it's not that long a distance. Our history, the history of today and our European future prove that there will never be any distance between us. I look forward to future cooperation among our peoples. We see a strong booming Ukraine as a wonderful neighbour to the Slovak Republic. I want to wish you the best and the best opportunity to stand before you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u3	Thank you. There is a need to welcome the birthday of Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich. [[Applause]] Mironka Mikhail Ivanovich. [[Applause]] And Petros ’ Valery Albertovich. Petrosov Valery Albertovich. Let's give it up for a round of applause. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, two factions request a recess for half an hour. We agreed that they would make a three - minute application instead of half an hour. Please, I mean the Communist faction and the Party of Regions. Myrrhichenko will make a statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u4	Gentlemen, I'm executing the faction's decision. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions leads to the knowledge of all citizens of Ukraine, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and judicial authorities of the facts of the brutal violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in part of the independence of the court. Especially dangerous is this phenomenon if such interference is of a pressure nature and has a major impact on the process of justice. This is even more dangerous if it becomes, if such pressure is and is being exerted by the State Institute, which the Constitution is defined as a guarantor of the Basic Law. Thus, according to the information received by our faction before the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Mr. Lucenka, the head of this court appointed judge in this case, Mr. Kolesnicko, has repeatedly called to the Registry of the President of Ukraine. We understand that we are building a state of law in the country. The Court, according to the Constitution, is guaranteed in its activities and is independent. We are now primarily addressing the President of Ukraine, we are addressing the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, we are calling on the High Council of Justice to ensure that all these state institutions comply with their legal responsibilities and responsibilities. And we call on the Supreme Council to ensure that we, as the body of the supreme legislative authority, exercise strict control that justice is, in the first place, never violated the rights of citizens or anyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u5	Deputies! Today, by the way, there is a day of radio, television, and communication. The workers of this extremely important sector in society, let us welcome these workers, wish them creative gains, the objectivity of all events, such as the work of Parliament. Let's welcome them, please. [[Applause]] You have a list of issues to discuss today. We're going to look at them. Before that, there is a proposal for an oath to be made by members of the High Council of Justice. And I invite Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich to the rostrum, which, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 5 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, is part of the Supreme Council of Justice for office. To make an oath, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, minister of justice of Ukraine, is given the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u6	I, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u7	Thank you. [[Applause]] The election of Ukrainian national deputies to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. The word has the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council, Alexander Andriyovich Kozub. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies, the committee has considered the submission of the Head of the House of Deputies of Our Ukraine Immortal since 31.10.2006 on the election of the Head of the Committee for the European Integration of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Prokopovich Natalija Volodymyrovna. Taking into account the requirements of part 7 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part 7 of article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee has decided to support the submission of the Head of the deputy faction of the Immortal Block “Our Ukraine” on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Prokopovic as Head of the Committee on European Integration and to submit an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft decision. This is the quota of our Ukraine faction. Natalia Volodymyrna is elected instead of Taraszuk, who is now serving as minister. I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:17:27]] For 232 Decision taken. We welcome Natalia Volodymyrna, and we wish her success in this responsible work. The factions. Region Party – 174, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialists – 28, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 3. Please move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u10	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2524. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the committee reviewed the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Zmira Jurija Pavlovich, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. In accordance with the requirements of section 1.2 of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, a Ukrainian national deputy may be elected at the same time as a member of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a temporary investigating or temporary special commission. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Czmir and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u11	You have a draft decision, please be determined regarding Yuri Pavlovitch Czmir. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please. [[10:19:01]] For 257 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u12	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2547. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 15 November this year, the committee considered the statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy Gnatkewicz Yuri Vasilovich, a member of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. The calculated quota for the Yulia Bill of Dept. Timoshenko on committees of up to 20 persons is 4.8, and the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations is working on this faction of four Ukrainian national deputies. So the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Gnatkewicz and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u13	I'm asking you to support this candidature, man knows the matter, he was an MP on the first call. And the fractional quota is not used, I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:20:27]] For-195 We need to negotiate between factions, we will return to the Conciliation Council. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u14	Project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2548 is proposed. The committee reviewed the statement made by Ukrainian national deputy Yegorenko Tamara Vasilovna, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for election as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Smaller and International Relations. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees of up to 20 persons is 7.2, and the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has four Ukrainian national deputies, i.e. the quota not used. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Yegorenko and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u15	I'm putting this ruling to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[10:21:42]] For 274 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u16	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2549 is being introduced. The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Mitroshkin Igor Alexanderovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP, that he should be elected as a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, freeing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees of up to 20 persons is 7.2, and the National Security and Defence Committee has four Ukrainian national deputies, i.e. the quota not used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the national MP Mitroshkin and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u17	I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote, please. [[10:22:52]] For 279 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u18	A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 2518 of 10 November 2006 is under consideration. The committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bičkov Sergy Anatoliyovich, a member of the deputy faction of the “Our Ukraine” bloc, to elect him as a member of the European Integration Committee. Considering that the calculated quota for the parliamentary faction of the “Our Ukraine” bloc in committees is 3.1 and that the Committee on European Integration is working on this faction of three national deputies, i.e. the quota used. The committee decided not to support the statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Bichkov to elect him as a member of the European Integration Committee. The national deputy of Bichkov insists on this issue and has put in place an appropriate project. Please identify yourself from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u19	I'm betting on the bill of election of the Bull as a member of the European Integration Committee, please. [[10:24:07]] For-164 The decision is not taken. We need to work with factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u20	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 2537 of 14 November 2006. The committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Pinchuk Andrija Pavlovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction for his election as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, vacating the duties of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees of up to thirty persons is 10.7 and that the Committee on Budget Affairs has thirteen national deputies of Ukraine, i.e. the quota exceeded. The committee decided not to support the statement made by the People’s Deputy of Pinchuck. But the National MP insists on considering the matter by the Supreme Council and has introduced the corresponding project No. 2537. Please identify yourself from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u21	I'm putting this bill to the vote, please. [[10:25:19]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm asking for procedure. One minute, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the faction of the Party of the Regions first. Yuri Gnatkevitch was not elected then in March, but he came to the list later, and he has the right to be represented on the Human Rights Committee. And according to his expertise and his experience in life, and in the MP's experience, he was the first MP to call, and the fact that the faction doesn't have a full quota on this committee. We talked about this on the Conciliation Council and he has every reason to be elected to the Human Rights Committee. I ask you to support this candidacy. Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic, Human Rights Committee. Once again, the fraction quota is not filled. I ask you to return to this question and resolve it definitively, remove the tension, but the faction votes for the other candidates when they go to other committees from other factions, particularly from the majority. I'm making an offer to go back to that question. Be a lass, vote. Mikhail Vasilovich, we have to vote. [[10:26:59]] For 219 We don't have enough votes. I'm asking you, Alexander Valentine's Day, there's nothing to block here, so let's talk to the faction leaders separately and do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u22	A break of 15 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u23	Alexander Turchinov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all the national deputies that not only does each of us have a right but also a duty, I emphasize, a duty, to be a member of the parliamentary committee. At the same time today, we have a precedent with you when the newly elected National Deputy Gnatkovic to the Supreme Council was deprived of that right, deprived of the Anti-Crist Coalition. I would like to emphasize that this MP was invited to the Human Rights Committee by the quota of our faction. That is, there was no violation of any regulatory or legislative provisions. And instead, the constitutional rights of both our faction and the specific national MP are violated today. That's why we insist on voting this issue now and allowing us to live within the Constitution. I want to ask you, colleagues of the Anti-Crist Coalition, let's stop the political “banditism”, let's live by the laws and the Constitution, and then our Parliament will work effectively and effectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u25	The word is Vassil Kiselov of the Party of Regions, from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I have been instructed by the Party of the Regions to lead to your well-known position as a party, a faction that has not voted in favour of Gnatkevitch's candidacy for the BUT faction. The fact is that it was not the vote that provoked the BUT faction itself. Explain why. Before that, there was a vote on Prokopovich. Look, raise your vote. It was not about introducing an MP to a committee, it was about appointing a committee head. And in this case, the BUT faction voted only nine votes in favour. That's why we are. It was a political subtext. That is why we have shown that we do not have to adopt double standards to individual deputies or to separate political powers. We suggest that we avoid such moments. We will now vote as the Head of the Supreme Council proposes, but please also draw conclusions from the incident that took place today in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u27	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to return to the question of Yuri Gnatkiewicz. Please. [[10:50:42]] For 396 I now put to the vote the draft Ordinance on the inclusion of Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevitch in the Human Rights Committee. You have a determination. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[10:51:09]] For 402 Decision taken. Yuri Vasilovich, we welcome you and wish you success in this work, and bear in mind that, you see, the human rights on your example are just demonstrated that they need to be protected. Thank you. The question is being considered. The factions? Please, by the factions. So I'll always read it, Rephat Abdurahmanovich, and now I'll read it. And I'll read it now, don't worry. Region Party – 180, Timoshenko Block – 118, Our Ukraine – 68, Socialist – 31, Communist – 0, non-fractional – 5. Please write down Rephat Abdurahmanovich so that you do not forget these results. You now have a draft regulation for the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly: “Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe”. And here's a reporter for Billorus Oleg Grigorovich. But given that he is now working with the Slovak delegation, we will consider this matter a little later when he appears. It's a clean procedure, and I think you'll consider that. It is proposed to consider a draft regulation amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call". [[about making changes in the membership of the Counting Commission]] And for this reason, the national deputy of Ukraine, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, has a report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine's Decision on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Appeal is proposed to exclude from the Committee of the People's Deputies of Ukraine a worker, Yuri Mikolaiovich, who has been tragically killed, as you well know, on October 16th of this year, and to include in the Committee of the People's Chamber of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mihajlovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Visewski, is the representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction, and this is the quota for the “Our Ukraine” faction. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u29	Koval Vjacheslav Stanislavovich, coreporter of this matter, has the word. Please. From the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u30	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Moroz Alexander Aleksandrovitch, the Committee considered, according to the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "On the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call", submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Onichuk. The committee unanimously supported the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree and decided that it would be appropriate to include the specified draft decree in the order of the day's second session of the Supreme Council. Consider the committee’s comments and recommend that the author replace the draft ruling with comments from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u31	Everything? Yes, take your seat then. You are asked to draft a ruling on this subject and there is a note by the regulatory committee that suggests a slightly different edition, in connection with, well, you know, a tragedy that happened, the death of Yuri Mikolaiovich Orobec. But they suggest to write: “Introduce the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Who is the representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction instead of the Robber Yuri Mikolaiovich, whose authority as a national deputy has ceased to exist in connection with his death.” Let's vote on this. I put to the vote a draft ruling in the wording proposed by the Ephraim Committee. Please. [[10:55:52]] For 416 Decision taken. You have, on the conciliatory board, discussed the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the whole cluster of issues. The language only goes into the agenda, it's not being considered today. The Supreme Council will be determined each time to include specific issues. That's why I put this project to 2527. Please, wait. About the turn-on, please. [[10:56:44]] For 336 Decision taken. Taran-terrestrial is asking for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u32	Microphone. That's it, thank you. Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Law 2097, on children born in captivity. These children, these people were left in Ukraine by 300 people, only according to the IMF. There is a letter from our faction, signed by Julia Timoshenko, to include this bill in the Supreme Council's consideration of granting them the status of all victims of political repression. There is the conclusion of our Human Rights Committee, where the Communists, where everyone voted with the demand, asked to be included in the agenda. On the Conciliation Council, it was promised that the bill would be included in the agenda. And I want to know why, contrary to the committee's decision, against the demands of our faction, against the requirements of the round table, where committee hearings were held, where there were representatives of the general public, who had such a black grudge against those people who were left behind and would no longer be, dozens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u33	I'll explain. You're the author of this law, aren't you? That's why I'm explaining that you're guilty. Why? Because the Conciliation Council has agreed, there are other projects that are not included in the list, put them in, these projects, and they will be included and voted on. We need to make sure your bills are passed. Hence, there is no problem in this regard. We're going to look at it separately, we're going to turn it on and we're going to look at it. Please calm down. And I'm explaining how it really was. Questions were raised at the Conciliation Council. Whether this project or another sounded -- I can't say, but the general form was: if there are other projects that need to be included, let's include. Make your suggestions. Please consider the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, high-ranking national MPs! Your view is proposed as one of the most important statutory laws of our nation, which should have been adopted immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, as required by the basic law. Today we have the opportunity to carry out the mandate given by the Constitution of Ukraine in its three articles of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government with regard to the adoption of a special law to regulate the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And this is the first project that is being implemented today for your consideration. The draft law, introduced to Parliament by the Cabinet of Ministers, sets out a number of very important directions for the Cabinet of Ministers. It defines the basic functions and powers of government as a higher authority in the system of executive power of the Ukrainian State. It is from the very beginning that we have a certain contrast with the alternative bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. And this alternative is quite clear in the draft Head of State, who, in part two of article 28 of that law, determines that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine facilitates the exercise of its powers by the Head of State. This is a fundamental difference between approaches to the government of Ukraine. This difference is being implemented as a conceptual variance across the entire text of the law, by all standards, in all chapters. In particular, this is reflected in the standard of part seven of article 12 of the draft by the President of Ukraine, which deprives the Ukrainian Parliament of its constitutional right as defined in article 85, paragraph 11, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the approval of the government programme and provides for its approval by law, i.e. the decision of the Supreme Council depending on the Presidential will. The project, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, establishes requirements for candidates for government posts, specifies the procedure for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the termination of its powers, depending on the different circumstances that arise. The project also defines the authority of the government, both in the direction of the executive authorities and in relations with other government authorities. With regard to the executive system, the project defines the procedure for the appointment of executive heads, including the college authorities of the central executive branch. It is envisaged that the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine will be empowered to revoke the decisions of the executive authorities. In doing so, it must be noted that such a rule regarding acts by local government authorities in Ukraine has been in force since 1997. It is contained in article 43 of the Law on Local Governmental Administrations, but it is somehow this norm that has led to a major debate on the rightfulness of its inclusion in the draft law that is being submitted to your consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to interaction with other government authorities, the anticipated release of government and its members from the responsibility of various advisory and advisory bodies created by the President of Ukraine should be noted. Instead, the alternative draft law contains a series of norms aimed at making the government an accessory to the advisory bodies and services of the President. Finally, this is stated in part 1 of article 31 of this bill. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine facilitates the performance of the tasks assigned to advisory, advisory and other auxiliary bodies and services formed by the President of Ukraine. If such a task is faced by the government, it is clear that it cannot be a higher body in the executive system but must ensure the exercise of the powers of the President of Ukraine. If we follow that logic, obviously we are back in 2004 to that form of government that was in force in Ukraine before the beginning of this year. In addition, article 30 of the alternative project also provides for the subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Council of National Security and Defence, which is understandable because it is a quasi-collegial body, which is formed solely by the Head of State and is used to adopt decisions that the Head of State considers necessary for consideration by that body. A draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with representatives of the deputy factions, determines the role of government in relations with various government authorities, as well as host entities of state form of property. Because there are many problems in this direction in Ukraine when government property does not bring proper profits to government executions and is used as a minimum, ineffectively. The draft law also defines the organization of government activities, the functional powers of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister, the ministers, the powers of government committees, the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers and its function. Clearly, the draft law has not been able to resolve all the issues that are obvious. In particular, the question of the manner and procedure for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the members of the government for reasons that will be understood, has not been resolved until the completion of the project by several different groups and considering that the Constitution of Ukraine does not contain an exhaustive algorithm in that direction, the unwillingness of the representatives of the President of Ukraine and the management of the Ministry of Justice, which previously worked with the draft law, has not allowed this algorithm to be resolved and therefore the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has asked the Constitutional Court to interpret these provisions. The same applies to another procedure, a procedure that defines the consolidation of the signatures of the Prime Minister and the minister responsible for the act of the President. This rule is left in the draft law in the same way that it is in the Constitution, because different mechanisms have been seen to be involved in this direction. And therefore, there may be a solution in this room either by the will of the deputies, or by the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, with which the Cabinet of Ministers also addressed a month ago. The draft law, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will allow the next step to be taken to consolidate those regulations, changes and forms of government that took place in Ukraine on January 1st and became final after the formation of a new parliament. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is asking the National Deputies to support the legislative initiative of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u35	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. We'll take 10 minutes to ask. Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u36	Alexander Vladimirovich! Bronnikov. Faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine, Zaporozhye. You have not said a word about the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish the administration of special status bodies, central authorities. I mean the Energy Regulatory Commission, the Antimonopoly Committee, other bodies that are absolutely necessary. Similarly, the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers for the reform of the Ministry, the establishment of new ministries and the liquidation of old ministries were not given. Whether the Cabinet of Ministers assumes these powers or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. As for the central executive authorities, including the college authorities that you listed, I said this conceptually, that the law provides for both the approval of the regulations on them, the determination of the order of work, and the procedure for the appointment of heads and members of the college bodies by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to reform, the creation of new executive bodies, this issue is resolved by the Constitution of Ukraine and is certainly provided for in detail in this project. I did not consider it necessary to forward the text of the draft Law itself, which you had already studied and discussed extensively, so I stopped only at the conceptual positions of the draft Law, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and on the key differences that are much more certainly between our projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u38	Petruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u40	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u41	Mr. Minister, I would like to hear two positions more clearly from you, this is about our issues of the Supreme Council, chapter seven of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because there are many experts here who say that if Articles 30 and 31 go to such an office, we will have in Ukraine not a parliamentary-presidential republic, but a government-presidential republic, because Parliament can not go to a meeting. Since article 31 provides that the Cabinet of Ministers is effectively entitled to veto all legislative acts affecting the income or expenditure portion of the budget. If you look at our laws, we have practically every other law on the socio-economic sphere, and so on the budget. That way we can not work then, we'll just wait for the bills from you. Do you think that in Parliament, in the parliamentary-presidential republic, there is no right to initiate and adopt budgetary legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you of article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that the National Budget of Ukraine is approved annually by the Supreme Council for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the only project that the Supreme Council does not approve, and it also approves, in article 96 of the Constitution, the only subject with the right and responsibility to draft the State Budget. Of course, as far as the article itself is concerned, it does not seem like an axiom and is able to be interpreted differently and, of course, in the second reading mode, there is the possibility of other formulations. The point is that there is a shared responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine for the formation of the state budget and the spending of public finances. And there is a great difference in today's situation with previous years in Ukraine, when the competition between the Supreme Council and the government and the responsibility for Parliament's decision lay in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u43	Chevchuk. We have one minute to answer, one minute to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u44	I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Mr. Reporter, I will not overlook the shortcomings of the bill that you are now reporting, and in particular the failure to regulate the procedure for the suspension of the Prime Minister's powers, the vague procedure for obtaining and ceasing government powers, the publication in the media of the Cabinet of Ministers' acts. All these details that show us imperfect laws. My question is different. Why are we considering this bill today? Because you realize that even in the event of its adoption, the President will veto it. Why didn't I hear the normal proposal of the Regulatory Committee to unify all the bills, work on the Tikhov Committee, and bring the agreed-upon committee here into the Hall to pass the President's signature, because Kabmin can't be without law. But, at the same time, you can't do it without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u46	The answer is two parts. Part 1. No one interferes with any subject of the legislative initiative of 450 Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to submit any draft law. So the question, to create with a few, could be the initiative of any national MP. But neither did the President of Ukraine, as I understand it, nor did the Cabinet of Ministers give such assignments to anyone. This is a constitutional approach and this is the rule of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. The second part of the answer is that I started out with these two projects being conceptually different. If the first project defines the Cabinet of Ministers as the higher authority in the executive system and makes details in all directions, then the second project foresees that the Cabinet of Ministers should ensure the exercise of the President's powers and ensure the functioning of his advisory, advisory, auxiliary and other services. Literally what's written in that bill. Here's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u47	You have to, obviously give me an answer to the question, because I can't go, he's a subject reporting the draft law, and inclusion or non-inclusion is my question. You obviously didn't read the information about what the President said, and he doesn't deny that a government project or any other project is going to be based on it, so that everything that's needed is written in it, and that it can function, be used. One. And the second is that the procedure for preparing a harmonized project is one based on either one or the other, or the third, and then everything that's in three is written in this project, and this is how reconciliation is ensured. He has a word for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u48	Thank you. Igor Zvarič, Party of Regions, Ivano-Frankovsky. After all, I've already received an answer to a few of my questions, but one question that concerns me. We're still on the verge of completing the reform. Of course, the changes that will be made can make substantial changes to the Cabinet of Ministers' position in relation to, let's say, interactions with district, district, if they're preserved or not preserved and so on. How do you see the order in which this issue is resolved, and we will make new changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. I don't think we're going to need any changes, we're going to need new legislation on local government administrations and maybe local self-government to anticipate a new interaction under new conditions. Finally, you may have pointed out that local government authorities are an integral part of the executive branch. It is prescribed in this section of the Constitution, and it prescribes all elements of interaction. But you also see how selectors are organized to create an alternative government that works with part of the executive power. Clearly, then, there are problems that need improvement. And the best solution is to ensure real self-government and transfer the functions of local government administrations to the executive bodies of local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u50	Romanyuk. Romaniuk, please. I see, I see. Talk to me. You obviously have a card there. A. No, Romaniuk was written. Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u51	Jaroslav Kenzior. I was just wondering about the likely fate of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in connection with possible changes to the Constitution related to local self - government. But I already got the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u52	Baranovsky. Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u53	Mr. Secretary, if these bills are conceptually different, I mean Presidential and Governmental, how can they be combined, if proposed, as Alexander Moroz says, a government project. And why not take it as a presidential basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u54	I'm sorry, I'll make it clear right away: I said one of the projects is to take, not the government, first. And secondly, they're conceptually no different, they're conceptually identical to all three projects. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u55	Well, if you count conceptuality and the fact that they regulate government activity, they're really exactly the same. They regulate government activities. How do they regulate? They regulate differently. And it is you who need to determine today whether Ukraine needs one government or two or maybe a few. And if we answer this question in a way that we have to have one parliament, one government in Ukraine, then obviously we need to support the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. President Igor Borisovich Koliusko's advisor has the floor. He'll report Project 2325-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In response to paragraph 6 of the Universal National Unity, signed by the political leaders of our country, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine made a commitment to draft the Cabinet of Ministers Act, as well as to draft the State Service Act in the new edition. It was planned that these bills would be prepared in close cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers and a single harmonized version of the bill had been introduced. But the bill, which was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers as a result, could not be supported by the President because, firstly, it contains positions that conflict with the Constitution. Secondly, it has been made, the latest changes made to it, to the effect that this bill does not contribute to the approximation of our system of government to the standards of good governance recognized in all democratic countries of Europe. In particular, the bill has deviated from the principles of delimiting political and administrative functions and positions and, in that case, ministers should continue to manage the apparatus of ministries to the detriment of the policy-making function, rather, public officials would continue to have to represent government initiatives, including in parliament, replacing ministers in government and government committees. Thirdly, the draft law does not provide a legal basis for constructive cooperation between the President and the Government of Ukraine in the field of implementation of each of them's constitutional powers. Thus, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers must be in Ukraine to implement the Constitution, particularly article 120, but it is equally important today to regulate the activities of the central executive authorities. Since these two issues need to be resolved as quickly as possible, the President of Ukraine considered it appropriate in one project together to solve these two problems, since it is not possible to imagine the functioning of the Cabinet of Ministers as a college body, as a higher body in the system of executive bodies without the functioning of ministries and other central executive bodies. This is the main difference between the bill introduced by the President and the bill drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is our bill in both the title and the content of the bill has a broader subject of legal regulation. Moreover, the main differences that have taken place with the drafting and substantive improvement of the bill at the conceptual level are the provisions such as article 1 of the first bill, which defines the system of executive organs, in which the Cabinet of Ministers is actually a higher body; secondly, article 2 defines the terms that are used in both bills, including the Cabinet of Ministers, but are new to our legislation and therefore require clarification and clarification. These are, in particular, terms such as “public policy”, “political programme”, “state political office”, “political responsibility”. The third article introduces the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers, not reiterating the separate powers defined in article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, but teaching those tasks that a government in a democratic state should carry out in response to its own society. And article four is much broader than the Cabinet of Ministers project, regulating the principles of the Cabinet of Ministers' activities, including by revealing the principles of the rule of law, legality, openness, unity of public policy, subsidiarity and decentralization, prevention of conflict of interest, and so on. Article 21, the reverend presents the tasks and basic functions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the direction of state policy. Since the repetition of the editorial, over the past 10 years, article 21 of the Cabinet of Ministers bill has been criticized on a number of occasions on the basis that the adoption of such regulations will inevitably create conflict-based legal coalitions between the Cabinet of Ministers Act and a number of other legislative acts that determine the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers in various fields of function and of the national economy and of the mechanism in general. Finally, one of the most important conceptual differences between these bills is the presence in the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive bodies introduced by the President of chapter five, which defines the status, organization and order of activities of ministries and other central executive bodies. In fact, in this chapter, the need to resolve these very issues today is the greatest social necessity. The President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of human rights and freedoms and a citizen, is primarily concerned that Ukraine needs a system of executive power that, regardless of the political climate in our country, has always carried out quality legislation in the field of human and civil rights and duties. That is, the provision of administrative services, the enforcement of legislation in the field of control should be the first need of executive power, and this is achieved, if judged by the majority experience, more precisely, by all European democratic countries, is achieved primarily by delimiting political and administrative functions in the executive branch and then by political and administrative positions in the administration of the Ministry. In addition, we would like to point out that the conceptual draft of the law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is in fact a repetition of that draft bill, which, starting in 1996, has already been discussed eight times in this room by three vocations and the Supreme Council. And in the President's opinion, it's time to look at something new and offer our voters a new approach to society, a new approach that we've been working on with our science, which has been worked on by many of the practitioners and theorists in this area. This is what was proposed in the draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers at many times. Thus, on behalf of the President, I propose to adopt a bill on the Cabinet of Ministers and other central executive bodies, introduced by the President of Ukraine in the first reading and in the subsequent preparation of his second reading, which will indeed take into account many of the good suggestions made in the Committee's deliberations and proposals that are in other versions of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Please sign up for 10 minutes. It's a hunchback.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u59	I'd like a word with Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u60	Please, Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u61	Igor Borisovich, in fact, doesn't make any sense from your statement. The first, when the universal was signed, was signed by the force “Our Ukraine”, which was therefore in opposition to the Government, refused to participate in the drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers Act on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers. Second, there is a polytreform, which in principle determined the powers of the President. And why did the President, his team, decide not to regulate their powers, but the powers of the executive branch, which passed the responsibility of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. I'm going to answer the second part, because what I think about the position of one of the factions, I think you'd better find out within the Supreme Council. As for why the President passed the bill, I can remind you once again that under the Ukrainian Constitution, the President has the right to legislative initiative. And this right of legislative initiative extends to all issues that are subject to legislative regulation, as is the right of the legislative initiative of every Ukrainian national deputy. In addition, the practice of previous reviews of the Cabinet of Ministers Act shows that it would be very often appropriate if such bills were made externally. For example, if it were designed in Parliament or developed by the President. Its quality, I think, would be higher than when government members prepared it for themselves, and there is always a temptation to be captured.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u63	An oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u64	Rev. Olijnik, Yulia Block Timoshenko Please pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u65	Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Victor Terrence, Yulia Block Timoshenko, "Fatherland" Party. Dear reporter. On the Human Rights Committee, we discussed both bills in detail. And you can see with an unarmed eye how in the Cabinet version, the President's rights are circumcised. I can see that. At the same time, we have to say that the President's is the same thing as the Cabinetman's, they're solidarity with what's there, and they're basically there. The Supreme Council's rights. For example, the government does not report to the Supreme Council but informs me of its activities. I don't have time to say this in detail, but there's some kind of drag rope. And that's why there's no perspective. It is clear that Parliament is voting in favour of the Cabinet, most of them. It is clear that the President will veto. And he'll do the right thing. Clearly, the veto will not be overrun because there will be no more than 300 votes. As a result, Ukraine will continue to live without the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. So, your prognosis, do you really need an agreed option?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. In this case, I, like my predecessor, report on behalf of the subject of the legislative initiative. You can decide what to do with these bills, but with regard to what the government doesn't report, these questions are provided for in the Constitution and many things that the law would like to foresee, unfortunately you can't always predict. By the way, what Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich stopped at with regard to article 25 of the draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish acts of heads of local government administrations. Simply put, article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine does not give such a right to the Cabinet of Ministers. From the point of view of relevance, I fully agree with the Cabinet of Ministers that this is wrong, but let's first make changes to the Constitution. In time, I was convinced that this did not fit the Constitution, and now we are going to break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u68	Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u69	May I have the floor to Filindash?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u71	Igor Borisovich, that's a question. The law is more widely known as the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authorities, but it is not noted, for example, that the system of executives is composed of central bodies with special status, that is, the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Property Fund, some others, although these bodies are, of course, executive authorities. And it says that the Cabinet of Ministers is just interacting with these organs. This is not clearly stated, although the name is broad enough in the law, it should include this. Next. Not to mention the very role of secretaries, it is not clear that it is a commission to appoint secretaries. How it's formed and so on, although it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. With regard to the state bodies provided for in the Constitution, the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Property Fund and a number of others, they certainly do not disappear, they are defined by the Constitution and are not defined by the Constitution as central executive authorities. And there's just a theoretical discussion. I think you could make a deal here, on the one hand, and on the other. But the president stopped at that option. There are other options for correct interpretation in this part of the Constitution. But once again, I stress that the Constitution, unfortunately, does not provide a comprehensive answer to the status of these organs. With regard to the appointment of secretaries, the bill stipulates that secretaries in ministries are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers for the results of a competitive selection conducted by a commission formed by the Chief of Staff. So these are positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u73	Bronnikov, please. Bronnikov, I'll explain later, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u74	I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Pecklusenko, the “Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u75	Alexander Pecklusenko, the "Region" faction. Honorable Rapporteur! We must answer three questions when we consider this law. First, does this law need to be done? The answer is clear yesterday. Second. What's he supposed to be, what's he supposed to match? First, the Constitution. Is there no objection to that? Second. We must establish a law to enable the exercise of the powers vested in the Cabinet of Ministers. If there is no distinction between philosophy and ideology, then it is asked, could you harmonize your differences between the Kabmin draft law and yours? Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you find a compromise on the job? If you couldn't do it, now you have to do it tomorrow, and for that to happen today you have to adopt the law on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. It is difficult to disagree with your position. No doubt the law is necessary, no doubt he must answer the Constitution, no doubt the Cabinet of Ministers should be the only one in Ukraine, no doubt he should be the higher body in the system of executive power. And with all this, the President is no doubt agreeable. But it was not possible to agree on the interpretation of a number of positions at the working group level. The Cabinet of Ministers made a decision with which the President did not agree, so two bills emerged. Word for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u77	You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u78	Your Honor, indeed, we must now make a very welcome decision for our future state and I am ashamed of all our previous 15 years that we have failed to pass the Cabinet of Ministers law. Now I don't have the enthusiasm for both bills and even the proposals we have in the draft regulations. This is a draft decree proposed by a group of people's deputies, and he's not even talking about taking into account the draft law proposed by the President. At the same time, Matthew’s draft decree says that both laws should be adopted and then entrusted to the working group. But is it possible to continue consultations at a higher level? Working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. I think the possibility of continuing consultations is always, but in this case the question was put into the agenda put in Parliament and so I came to report this bill. If your will is to continue the consultations, I think the President will support this position and I, or anyone else, will participate in these consultations on behalf of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u81	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, first of all I want to explain what is behind the idea and the legislative initiative with which I entered the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As is known, the Ukrainian Parliament has repeatedly sought to regulate the issue of the status of the organization and order of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the last such proposal, as you may have, at least those who worked in the previous Parliament, I mean the fourth call, was made when the Supreme Council of the previous cassation had essentially already done its job and had been tasked with passing the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order for a government that was to be formed in the new constitutional model to work with the relevant law. It was then possible to predict, and this was directed by the Supreme Council, that constitutional entities, including parliament, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the President would probably stand in the new political realities, which is perfectly natural, their visions of the order of activities and the organization of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is exactly what happened, I mean the situation that the government and the President have failed to compromise on the part of the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a joint bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So here's the bill that I'm going to report on is a reflection of the position of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was formed by a temporary special constitutional commission composed of representatives of Parliament and, in particular, the Chief Scientific and Legal Authority, representatives of the President's Secretariat, virtually all the leading experts of the secretariat on these issues and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in almost full composition when it comes to the heads of the legal direction of the government. And such a cohesive bill, honourable colleagues, I emphasize, was prepared and submitted on behalf of the Provisional Constitutional Commission for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regrettably, in connection with the political processes of the end of the last caedence, he was not considered in substance and, in fact, was not even considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill that I have introduced basically reflects the position of this coherent joint working group. And that's why I'm counting, in particular, as the author of the legislative initiative, that it could have been taken as a basis for the appropriate positive work that is being done in the bill and in the presidency and in the Cabinet of Ministers to be taken into account. Now for the content. Dear colleagues, the special feature of the legal status of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is that unlike the President, unlike the Cabinet of Ministers, the powers of which are solely defined by the Constitution, honourable colleagues, and cannot be determined by law. Article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine determine the Cabinet of Ministers’ powers, order and organization of activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u82	Mikola Vasilovich, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are excited about the first two projects and have already begun their discussion. But do so so that you can hear the report on the third project. I'm asking you to turn around, no matter what your back. Constantine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u84	Please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, these are constitutional-level bills, really, I support the chairman here, no matter who reports. Dear colleagues, so on. The problem is that each constitutional entity, in fact, regulates and has the right to deal with specific issues of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, there must be a legislative arrangement to deal with constitutional positions that are, in fact, identifiable and are not known to contradict the Constitution. In view of the fact that many of the issues of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers are authorized by the Constitution directly, I will not stop at the analysis of these positions, since they must in any case enter into the law and be reproduced. And I'm going to stop at what's new, actually, in this bill, by the way, is a new one in the laws of the legislators that have just been reported. First. The project clearly foresees that an exclusive way, honourable colleagues, the decision-making of the Cabinet of Ministers is a government meeting, since the Cabinet of Ministers is, as provided for by the Constitution, a collegiate body. This means that even from the extraordinary nature of the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers has no right to make decisions in any other way than through the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm bringing to your attention that, as you know, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers live in Kiev. And everyone knows exactly where the Cabinet of Ministers is, and I'm convinced that for an hour or two, wherever the minister is, he should come to an emergency government meeting. And you don't have to put any extra reason in here based on urgency, archiving and all that. Next. The new bill is that and, by the way, it is a step that all three bills go forward, which clearly stipulates that ministers and their deputies are political civil servants, that is, political figures, who act in their posts, not only under the State Service Act, but also by this law. That is, they may be released from office for other reasons, as provided for by the State Service Act. Instead, the law clearly indicates that this, let's say, state apparatus at the level of the secretaries of all ministries, the Cabinet's offices are not touched when governments change and change by ministers. And the debate on the positions of secretaries is actually, to some extent, it's premeditated here, because the main question is that we separate political functions and administrative arrangements, is solved in all three bills. Dear colleagues, the bill provides for a solution to the incompatibilities of a cabinet member's position in a collegiate situation where a member of the Cabinet of Ministers is elected as a national deputy. You know, we already had this problem when the Central Electoral Commission registered with the National Deputies of the Cabinet of Ministers without them applying for release. And that's right, because the government in the country, no matter what political power it leads, operates on the principles of continuity and systematicity. And that means that members of the Cabinet of Ministers have to carry out their duties and be members of the Cabinet of Ministers to form a new government if there are no other reasons. The law details the constitutional procedure for the appointment of the Prime Minister, and I'm not stopping. The only thing I want to say is that it is clear from the bill that the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers is made by the Prime Minister in accordance with the constitutional procedure by a list of at least two thirds of the Cabinet of Ministers members, because this is the number of members of the Cabinet of Ministers associated with the acquisition of government powers. The novelty is also that members of the Cabinet of Ministers are to take an oath, and their powers begin at the time of taking an oath. Look, you and I, the National Deputies, we take an oath, the President takes an oath, the members of the Constitutional Court take an oath, the members of the High Council of Justice take an oath, the members of the government have to take an oath, and the members of the government, as trustees, essentially the fate of the country, because they run the country. The novelty is also that respected colleagues, that the law lays down in detail the grounds for the termination of the powers, the suspension of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the term. In addition to the regulations that are known and regulated by the Constitution that the Cabinet of Ministers ceases its activities on a time-by-time basis when the Cabinet of Ministers' mistrust is expressed, it is also anticipated that the same consequences will occur when: (a) The Prime Minister for Health cannot carry out his duties on a permanent basis, and this is the conclusion of the medical administration of a special medical commission by the central executive body, and Parliament is accordingly considering these findings at the Cabinet of Ministers. And the same, unfortunately. It is not prescribed in the Constitution, but we also have to foresee it with regard to members of the Cabinet of Ministers, by the way, in the case of all living forever, death by both the Prime Minister and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the time for the report ends, I just want to point out that the purpose of this bill is to remove the political strain that has arisen today between the two constitutional subjects - the President and the Government - in part of my understanding of the authority of the organization and the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u86	Please sign up for the questions. Sass. Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u88	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u89	Mikola Vasilovich, I'm impressed, I've heard three reports that we're going in the traditional Ukrainian way, in a worse sense. Now, in your previous call, you led a special group that worked, prepared a bill, and could be discussed, accepted today, but at the same time we're listening to two more bills: the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. In those two bills, it is quite clear that the Presidential Bill is fighting for the mandate of the President's Secretariat and the NPB, the Cabinet Bill is fighting for the authority of the government, but the balance is neither there nor there I can see. Why is it that your group that worked has not prepared a bill today, which is not the only piece of legislation, because your approach to your bill is, in my opinion, the most optimal in terms of the relationship between Parliament, the government and the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u90	Thank you for asking, Comrade Tomenko. I have already talked about what would be expected to be the subject of the legislative initiative and the head of state, and the Cabinet of Ministers to agree and, in fact, to refer to Parliament's competence a legislative initiative that would regulate the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and this would be the only right decision if that bill, which was prepared in due course for the participation of all three subjects, was brought to Parliament, and then the President, and the Cabinet of Ministers, were to justify and convince Parliament in the second reading, in particular, that one or another proposal was worth the attention. I still don't leave any hope that any decision today in Parliament would not be approved that we would go this way, and it would be desirable that the head of the working group, under all circumstances, be appointed a member of Parliament, who, let's say, is not politicized, but advocates interests, objectively defends the interests of the constitutional model of the organization of power in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u91	Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u92	Stepan Kurpil, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Onechuk, you've done a very big job of combining, or synergizing, these two bills, although they do have many conceptual differences. What do you think is really not only to consider these bills, but somehow to adopt them and spend time discussing them if we have not completed constitutional reform, if there are still doubts as to the constitutionality of adopting changes to the Constitution in December 2004? And in what way can we adopt the Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers?” What did he see, it was relevant, but what are the real ways?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. As a lawyer, I have to tell you that when we talk about the possibility of further improvement of constitutional phenomena and constitutional reform, under all circumstances this is probably the least relevant, I stress this, the relationship between the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament, because, above all, it is about, you know, local self-government, the Prosecutor's Office and other elements of the political system of the State. This is the first time. Secondly, one way or another, it's a constitutional and legal reality that changes to the Constitution have become effective. And today we have constitutional bodies formed according to the requirements of the Constitution that are valid. It can be expected that something in the future, not exclusively, can be changed, but we must ensure that all subjects of constitutional jurisdiction are in conformity with current constitutional regulations. With regard to the bill, we will note that, in fact, both the subjects and the president and the Cabinet of Ministers have brought their own and, unfortunately, discussed in a large part. Although I admit that there are interesting works that deserve to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u94	Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u95	Dear Mikola Vasilovich, I've been familiar with your project not so long ago, but I see it's more of a project presented by Lavrinovich today. I still remember the history of the 91st century when the work on this Law began. And so he hasn't been accepted for tens of years. In order to accept this Law, do you not object to uniting with the ideas of Lavrinovich? Because they're a lot like you. There's a flaw there, there's a flaw in you. And so to do the only project to get to the agreed position, and to take it into the hall here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, you're an experienced parliamentarian and an experienced employee in the Cabinet of Ministers system, especially, and you know very well that the regulatory procedure for reviewing the bill provides that we have one of the bills to take as a basis. This is the outcome of the legislative initiatives and Parliament is already working on the bill by creating appropriate tools and so on. There may also be a rereading institute, but it is of the will, and I emphasize the subject of the legislative initiative if we do not take any legislation as a basis today. The only thing I can tell you is that I'm ready to do whatever format I can, as the author of the legislative initiatives, with the country getting the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Because we don't accept it for the Yanukovich government, my friends. And we don't accept it for President Yushchenk, we accept it for a country that will have new governments, new presidents. And that's the logic of the political life of countries. So this is what you should always think about when it comes to preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u97	Thank you. She's asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u98	Dear Mikola Vasilovich! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. We carefully considered the bills yesterday at our committee meeting. And the previous speaker just said to me that we really need to think about the country today and bring together the better ideas expressed in those three projects that were, and probably to produce the only vision not only on the part of the government and the parliament, but also on the part of the President's Secretariat, so that there is no constant opposition. In fact, these three bills have some differences. The main difference is that the Cabinet of Ministers, which was announced today by Mr. Lavrinovich, is the only one, I emphasize, the only body that forms and is responsible for the implementation of socio-economic policies in Ukraine. Do you agree that this is an option that we should base rather than extend the executive power, not create a confrontation between the President and the executive branch of power?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u99	Mr. Yuri, thank you for asking. I'll tell you for sure that all three projects have a clear understanding of the role, and a clear understanding of the role of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the only body responsible for socio-economic development. At the same time, the discussion, those who need, in fact, a balanced and peaceful analysis, are issues related to this and this, by the way, in the bill that I am presenting, is reflected in the fact that each body, the President, the National Security Council, the Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, should interact, helping each other to exercise the constitutional powers of each body. That's where you have to stand. And in a position to take who from whom and what the Cabinet of Ministers has to do to ensure implementation, and how it has to do so, the powers placed on the head of the state. It's not a name, it's an institution, it's a head of state. Exactly what the President has to do to contribute to the effective performance of the tasks that the Cabinet of Ministers has under the Constitution. The same applies to the example of the National Security and Defence Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u100	Mathienne
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u101	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Mikola Vasilovich, I am sympathetic to your initiative, to your bill. Of all the people offered today, it's a better bill. But I would like to ask you as an author and as a representative of the legal committee. How the Supreme Council should view a bill that violates the Constitution, and this applies to two other bills. And the second. In fact, today we must not be involved in politics or in those who will be smothered, but in writing the law for future generations. And I agree with you here. Please tell me if you've had a conversation with the initiators of the legislative initiative of one bill or another about accepting your bill as a basis. And I'm talking to Mr. Frost. Whether he supports this initiative in order not to start a war between two subjects but actually to enact a normal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u102	You asked me questions and the Head of Parliament. I think he'll be responsible for himself. The provocative question as to how I refer to bills that contain standards that do not conform to the requirements of the Constitution is, naturally, that they should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative to be drafted. It's obvious. What's more, when it comes to institutions of state like the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm just shutting it down. With regard to the actual possibilities of reconciling my personal with the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine, I was thinking first of all about what they should be interested in and should address the issues of negotiations and possible consultations on how to ensure the adoption of the law by avoiding this acute political competition. Regrettably, I have not yet received such an express position from the two institutions, although my previous discussions show that they are set up to work together in the format that Parliament proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u103	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich, why should I hear you talking there, as you think. Really, don't you have to? Have a seat, please. I answer your question. I'm against the sovereignty of the President's Secretariat. I'm in charge of the Constitution to make it work properly. That's the first one. Here one of the deputies spoke of what Mikola Vasilovich, like, made of two projects alone. No, he did a project in his last office together, a working group. I was in it, too, and we've prepared, in my opinion, a universal bill, based on changes to the Constitution that will be introduced. The conceptually three projects are a little bit different, but conceptually. The difference between them is because the emphasis is on what Anatoly Sergiyovich will now report as the author of the draft decision, but it should be borne in mind that this is the procedure. We can take one as a basis, the other, the third, but write, in my opinion, hoping that it would be similar to that project reported by Mikola Vasilovich. Let's see how this happens during the vote. In the meantime, I'm calling it a 12.30 break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u104	Everyone please come into the hall. The sitting is continuing. From the committee, Victor Mikolaiovich Tikhov has the floor. Please. One minute, then we'll make a decision and we'll consider the question of judges, because we've invited people here so that they can solve their question, learn their fate, and get home on time. So please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! You're invited! On October 13, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine registered a draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, No. 2325, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Just two weeks later, on October 27, another draft of the Ukrainian Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities” was registered, registration number 2325-1, introduced by the President of Ukraine, which, in effect and in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, is an alternative to the Government Bill. Both bills came to the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government and were taken up for consideration. He should also report that only yesterday at 3 p.m. at 15 p.m. during a meeting of the oral committee of the People’s Deputy Oneschuk, a bill was submitted and registered. But since this information had not been documented, the committee had no reason to take up the oral report of the National MP and stopped to consider only two bills, namely Bill Nos. 2325 and 2325-1. I would also like to point out that on November 1st, the Committee created a working group of national MPs, representatives of the secretariat of the President of Ukraine, the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, scientists for the consideration of drafts. Both members of the committee and national deputies had the opportunity for more than two weeks to get to know the bills carefully, which, in the view of the committee, is quite sufficient to make an informed decision in the first reading. I will also point out that, in your majority committee, you believe that the Cabinet of Ministers bill is extremely important and urgent, and there can be no argument to re-tract this important issue. On my behalf, I will say more that those who try to delay the adoption of this bill are interested in the government continuing to work on more clearly defined rules and rules, which actually paralyzes its effective activities. Please tell me, could local authorities, local authorities, and other authorities work illegally? I'm sure it's not. How can a government work without a law that Ukraine is not more than 15 years old? Maybe that's why, almost every year, governments change. The committee therefore urges the national deputies to reject ambitions and to work together to adopt a law that would finally put the government’s activities in a clearly defined legal field. This was the case with the committee, in any case, most of them, offering you their decisions and recommendations today. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell in detail on the position of the bill, we will still have the opportunity to look carefully at every norm, every sentence and word during the drafting of the bill, and during its consideration in the second or perhaps third reading regime. I'm just going to make general conclusions and proposals, first of all, both the working group and the committee, and I've come to the conclusion that the bills are governmental and presidential in many ways similar. Each one has its own faults, and there are positive ones that can be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. However, there are principles of difference between them that show different visions of the President and the Government of the distribution of powers between them under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic. The desire of the drafters of the Presidential Bill is clearly reviewed, preserved and even expanded, in spite of the changes made to the Constitution to empower the head of state, to subdue the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. His signs are that some of the provisions of the presidential bill directly conflict with the basic law. Let us take just two specific examples from the Presidential Bill. Thus, the position of article 30 of the draft stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of national security and defence is under control by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which is directly in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, article 107, because this has set up the NPBO, which is in fact the constitutional body of the President of Ukraine over government. And a second example. It is not clear why all ministers are asked to provide national protection to the foreign minister and his family. There are a number of shortcomings in the government bill, and I'll give you just two examples. Article 30, paragraph 2, states: “Only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensures submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft laws amending the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, which is contrary to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” It is also controversial to propose the authors of the bill, which is set out in the Transitional Regulations amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine concerning the granting of the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the standard state registrations for local self-government authorities. The committee will insist that similar standards be removed in the process of preparing for second reading. Honourable National Deputies, and to conclude briefly on the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority for the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities. I quote: “As far as the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers Bill No. 2325 to be governmental, the content and form of the presentation are more perfect than the draft, or the Presidential, the Administration recommends that Bill No. 2325 be given precedence to the government.” So at its meeting, our committee, having considered the draft laws of Ukraine, and having heard the information of the head and members of the working group of the committee on the drafting of the bills, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, No. 2325 of 13.10.2006, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to reject the draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive bodies, No. 2325-1 of 27.10.2006, introduced by the President of Ukraine. On behalf of the committee, I reiterate my request to support the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u106	Let's make one point. When one of the alternative projects is accepted, the other is automatically not considered, and that doesn't mean deviation, it just means that it's one base. I haven't made that decision, yes, I repeat. The language goes, he talks about the offer. Now is there a question for Viktor Mikolaiovich? No questions are asked about the Rules. He reported from the committee, and she understood the position of the committee. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a whole, wait, you have a whole bunch of bills, draft regulations, there's also an alternative, alternative draft decision, which is written by Matvienko. As you discuss all these documents, you need to know the author’s opinion, he gets the word for a specific point of view for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u107	Dear Head! Deputies! Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, block “Our Ukraine”. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I am entitled to a special point of view, since of the 20 deputies of the 17 present, 9 voted in favour of adopting a government bill in the first reading, another group of deputies asked me to express a separate opinion on the basis of the consideration of the relevant Cabinet of Ministers bill. There were seven of them. So let me say this point, which is really drawn up in the draft ruling on this issue that I brought to your attention under number 2325P-1. The proposal is for government and presidential bills to be submitted to the Preparatory Committee for the Re-reading and Review of the First Read, while agreed upon by the Committee, at the next meeting of the Supreme Council. It is, by the way, supported by many committees of our Supreme Council. And they came to the profile committee that I represent. This was followed by a political team – to adopt a bill of government. What I'm saying is, why is the proposal I'm making, just like I'm proposing in my draft ruling? Let me remind you of history. Indeed, the previous Parliament, this has already been mentioned today, was formed by the Constitutional Commission, which, in February of the signing, including you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, introduced the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council in February 2006. Today, Onischuk practically repeated the bill by 98 percent and registered it for our consideration. It was a good document. But he did not prescribe very many important standards, since he was preparing faster than a political step, and he could no longer foresee the challenges that we have faced before. For example, the 15-day deadline for the President's nomination, or, say, the political resignation of a number of ministers and so on. The government has practically rewrote this bill, but has deliberately made it worse, seeking to conquer as much territory as possible of its rule and has brutally infiltrated the powers of the Supreme Council, the President, grossly ignores the special law on the Constitution of the ARK Crimea, intervenes in the field of local self-government, ignores the decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the appointment of substitutes for the heads of government. [[Read Carefully the Limitations of Deputies]] [[Ignores Presidential acts]] This is a gross violation of the Constitution. By standards it's an unconstitutional project, it has to be rejected. That's about seven of them. In addition, there are many rules of the government bill that allow for impreciseness and thus rereading. This is probably why the president was unable to submit the bill to the government. The war of the secretaries intensified opposition and work on the document, resulting in a group that was preparing the presidential project, heated by ambitions to conquer the new territories proposed today a presidential project that also has a constitutional breach. This is how we have war today. And if we really understand that we really do accept the project as not winning one part over another, we obviously have to think about it today. And by the way, Alexander Alexanderovich, I've passed on those petitions to the Constitution, both in one bill and in another. And now I'm going to the hall. Obviously, in order not to heat up the war, but to adopt the bill as quickly as possible, it is worth working on the agreed one, which the working group did and, by the way, worked fruitfully. And in this way, adopt a bill to get the government to act as fast as possible in the legislative field. If we don't, we're pushing the situation to the eighth veto today. I want to remind you, that's how many vetoes have already survived the Cabinet of Ministers bills, and that way we won't win any time. But if we compromise today, let's accept the Oneschuk bill, which neither side heats up nor has any of those gross violations of the Constitution, we'll take into account all the proposals and one part and the other, and we'll get out of this colossus today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u108	Thank you for your suggestions. It's true, Anatoly Sergiyovich, the language we have is so rich that you can say, not "iron," but "irrigated," and so on, you can understand. Okay. I'm asking who would like to comment on this faction, please sign in. From factions. Maybe we'll listen to the faction's opinion and make decisions, or do you want to be an MP? Huh? Five minutes from the factions. Bodnar, please, Olga Borisovna. Tomenko will be speaking? Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the ones that I asked one of the authors of the Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk Bill, that I have always lived under the terms of the Constitution in 96, and when we live in the conditions of the Constitution in December 2004, I thought that the legislative work of generating the place of this process in this room where we are. The Cabinet of Ministers and the President are active members of the legislative work, but all their brilliant ideas, all the suggestions, the ideas must be borne, the ideas must be flown, the committees must be assembled, or if the Supreme Council decides on a special commission here. What's more, under the current Constitution, when we live under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic. If you look conceptually at a bill submitted by the President, it's quite obvious that simply by fact, by position, so to speak, the President's Secretariat, the National Security Council and the Defence Council did everything they could to maximize their influence, their capabilities, and, well, that's logical because they came out that they should have more authority. [[The camera, I mean, the National Security and Defence Council.]] And in that sense, I'm particularly concerned about the mass of expulsion rules, when, for example, there's a rule that the Cabinet of Ministers should take into account orders, the idea of the Secretariat and the Council of National Security and Defence, but everything else is regulated by individual laws or decrees of the President. Then I have a question, and why are we adopting the Cabinet of Ministers Act if the key issue of the relationship between the President's subsidiary organs and the Cabinet of Ministers will be settled by another law or decree of the President. So conceptually, I think it's a flaw in the Presidential Bill and you can't, at some point it's like the President's Law at all, not the Cabinet of Ministers Act. When it comes to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, I've already told the minister, and once again I want to say that if article 31 goes through that line, we just need things with you and we need to go somewhere else. There is a need for parliamentary hearings to be held here because in our lives virtually every bill directly or indirectly affects either the income or expenditure of the budget, either this year or the next one or another. I would like to quote this norm: “The Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for conducting an expert study of the legislative initiatives that have been introduced to the Supreme Council. The findings of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding such projects are subject to mandatory consideration by the Supreme Council. In the event of a negative conclusion by the Cabinet of Ministers on the impact of the draft law on the income or expenditure portion of the budget, it is not included in the agenda of the Supreme Council without agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers.” I'm sorry, what do we do then? So now, on any legislative initiative, the Supreme Council Committee has made a decision, a negative conclusion -- we don't include it in the agenda. So what are we doing here? So I would like to, I understand that the budget is delicate, but, nevertheless, we need to look for such an approach so that Parliament has its position and its ability to work with the government in part not just to prepare the budget, because I understand the logic of the 30th article, and here I am the concept prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers to support, where it is written that only the Cabinet of Ministers is ensuring the submission of draft State Budget Bills. This could be a compromise. Everything about the State Budget Act, let's think about how to act in solidarity with the government and the Cabinet of Ministers. All that applies to laws that directly or indirectly relate to the budget is, of course, the full right of Parliament, the committee, the national MP. To that end, we were chosen, and we formed our own preelection programs. Another conceptual thing, which is extremely important, is that we must be determined once and for all by the history of the political and state components of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's quite obvious that a minister is a political office, and that's how we should do it once and for all. And there will be no history like with many ministers who are either here or are gone. They wake up in the morning from our Ukrainian quota, and in the evening they're from a medical or educational quota. That's not how it works. If a coalition is created, in the coalition the minister represents political power, and the political power assumes responsibility for what he does. The political power came out, and the minister came out, which he wouldn't be. We're playing games here, and we've got this circus in front of the world because ministers can't determine whether they're more important to the industry or the party. So there has to be a clear position here. The minister, a political figure, from the deputy minister, is a civil servant and civil servants working independently of who the prime minister is. That's why we're offering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u111	Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished members of the people, we are today considering extremely important bills for the state on the Cabinet of Ministers. Draft Law No. 2325 on the Cabinet of Ministers, developed by the Government, in accordance with the agreements established at the Universal of National Unity, called upon to put an end to the uncertainty and lack of legal uncertainty in the field in which the Government is operating under the current political conditions of constitutional reform. The immediate adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Act is essential in connection with the further implementation of political reform. The absence of a basic Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine makes it extremely difficult to define clearly the powers of the Government and the list of issues that it should decide. To date, some 250 laws are regulated by the Government, and the prime minister’s mandate and duties are over 440. In turn, ministries perform functions that could be performed by district government authorities and, even, by local authorities. This uncertainty causes the government to overburden itself with minor issues that should be referred to the lower level of decision-making – the Ministry, the local executive authorities. The Anti-Crist Coalition hopes that Parliament will support the government's bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This will stop dragging the channel of authority from Gruszewski to Bankow, or vice versa, allowing the government to work properly for a long period of time for the benefit of the country and the people. The main provisions of the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are as follows: according to 113 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bill defines the Cabinet of Ministers. As a higher authority in the executive system. The Kabin is accountable to the President and the Supreme Council, the subordinate and accountable Supreme Council within the limits provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. In relations with the President, the government is accountable to him within the framework of the Constitution and is governed by the decrees of the President of Ukraine issued on the basis and implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The President's acts, issued within the limits of the powers provided for in paragraphs 5, 18, 21, 23 of the first article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, are reinforced by the signatures of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister responsible for his implementation. The political status of members of the government has been established, the positions of the Cabinet of Ministers have been assigned to political positions, and there has been no expansion of legislation on public service. In order to ensure the principle of continuity in the exercise of executive power in the election of the Supreme Council and the formation of a new Cabinet, it is stipulated that when a member of the Cabinet of Ministers is elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, he acquires the mandate of a deputy without being released from office of a member of the government and continues to exercise his authority until the start of the new government. The role of the Cabinet of Ministers in the expertise of the draft laws submitted to the Supreme Council is increasing. The government’s findings will be subject to mandatory consideration by the Supreme Council. In the event of a negative finding by Kabmin regarding the flow of the draft law to the revenue or expenditure of the State budget and consideration, it will not be included in the agenda of the Parliament's plenary. It has been established that the weekly briefing of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council on its activities by conducting hours of questions to the government. It is also new to strengthen the ability of Kabmin to transfer to the relevant ministers the powers to form, reorganize, eliminate inspection services, and agencies within the ministries. The Cabinet will be able to delegate authority to ministers for the appointment and release of the leaders of these organs. It should be recalled that the work on the Cabinet of Ministers law lasted about 10 years. During this time, the Law was adopted seven times by the Supreme Council, but each time the President promised it. The Head of State submitted to Parliament an alternative to legislative regulation of government work by introducing a bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities. But it should be noted that the government bill is more fully in line with the position of the Universal National Unity. In particular, the Presidential Bill defines the status not only of the Cabinet of Ministers but also of the central executive authorities. Dear colleagues, we hope that after a decade of fighting for the approval of the law on government activity, common sense will prevail, and the Supreme Council today will support the Cabinet of Viktor Yanukovich in his efforts to put an end to uncertainty and will adopt Act No. 2325 on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as soon as possible, and the President will sign it immediately. That's what the country needs, that's what society needs today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u112	The word is Bondarchuk John. Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich of the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished fellow MPs. We're looking at, we can speak directly, a pervasive law on the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's not because we're trying to make it as perfect as possible. It is because it is essentially a reflection of two different conceptual models for what we see Ukraine as a state. Finally, it's about a system of government organization, about the organization of a system of government. And if we're to reject the word scale, it's either the adoption of the law within the existing Constitution, or the de facto attempt to re-establish it, and, as the Russians say, not by washing it, so by kicking it, to introduce some positions that have nothing to do with the European democratic model of an organization of power in Ukraine. After all, what is a European model of power that provides for the adoption of a democratic law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is a clear relationship between the organization of power and the will of the people, when the election results in a coalition in Parliament forming a government that clearly assumes political responsibility to citizens for all its activities, with due authority to carry out the program and to carry out the commitments made. Another model, if once again, is to reject verbal equilibrist, takes its root in the model of power that existed under the previous political regime, when the President of the State was not formally the head of executive power, but exercised the full authority of executive power, without having any political or any other responsibility for the consequences of his governance. As a result, we must make decisions on the basis of the following logic. We are in favour of deepening political reform, or we are in favour of its revision, and to return in separate parts to the regime that existed in Ukraine to the known events. Does this mean that both bills can be combined? I would say subjectively, it seems to me that it will be extremely difficult to do so for the reasons mentioned above. But we've been discussing this issue on factions and we tend to think that a bill prepared by the government allows us to talk about the purpose of taking it as a basis, even though it's not ideal. I'm only going to stop at two thesaurus. The bill proposed by the government contains a number of provisions that unjustifiably extend the authority of the government compared to that of the current Constitution. In particular, it is his right to accept candidates for the positions of deputy heads of local governments who exercise their powers in areas such as the knowledge of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the abolition of acts of local government administrations in whole or in separate parts, and the abolition of acts of bodies of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the approval of the standard government licenses of local councils and their implementing bodies, and so on. Of course, these positions require improvement in accordance with the rules of the existing Constitution. At the same time, when we look at the individual provisions of the bill proposed by the Presidential Party, we see a number of nuances that just allow us to talk about wanting to review the current rules of the Constitution. Anyway, that's what I'm talking about. Part 5 of article 9 of the draft, which provides for the right of the President of Ukraine not to submit, under certain circumstances, a proposal for a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to run for Prime Minister of Ukraine. This is not directly in line with article 106, paragraph 9, of the Constitution. Didn't we witness when the deliberate treatment of this basic article on the democratic process of power-building almost plunged the country into a deep political crisis? A similar conclusion can be drawn with regard to the second article, part two of article 12 of the project, according to which the program of Kabmin’s activities in part of the foreign, defence, and security policy should correspond to the letters of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. And a number of other positions will move us to think that the faction is proposing to take the basis of a government bill and work on it to get the best of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich has the floor, please. From the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think there is no doubt that this, not much, but I think, is long-suffering and, also, the Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” the Supreme Council is simply obliged to accept. And so, accordingly, we need to act today, not to block the consideration of this acute problem by Parliament. Since three bills on the Cabinet of Ministers have been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is our view that it is appropriate to accept as a basis the project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers as working, much more thorough and more clearly set out. Nevertheless, we believe that a number of provisions of this bill need a substantial legislative settlement. In particular, with regard to such an acute issue as the possibility for Parliament to express its mistrust to a separate cabinet member, there is a need to determine the order of consideration of the relevant proposals and the legal consequences of the Supreme Council's decision on the mistrust of a member of the government. In this regard, we think it appropriate to complement article 19 of the draft with a new position such as the following: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine may express its mistrust to a individual member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and release him in connection with this position.” It is also worth deciding whether the President of Ukraine can re-elect the same prime minister as the Supreme Council has rejected. To that end, I think we need to complement article 8 of the Cabinet of Ministers' draft with the position that the President of Ukraine can resubmit, not once more, a nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine for a candidacy rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is also a need to harmonize article 32 of this bill with regard to the mandate of the Cabinet for the development and implementation of the State budget. With the U.S. budget code, these are not compatible. And such 20 specific proposals were prepared and passed on by a faction of Communists in preparation for the drafting of this bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for second reading. As I said before, the bills are similar, but between them and, in particular, the government and the President are the principles of differences, which testify to the different visions of the President and the government of the distribution of powers for today between him and the government under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic. This clearly reflects the President's desire to preserve and expand, as well as the Head of the Committee on Profiles, in spite of the changes that have been made to the Constitution under the authority of the Head of State. And some positions really simply conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, the concept of “government” that is not in the Constitution is defined by the main tasks not only of the Cabinet of Ministers but also of other executive bodies, which are clearly defined in Article 116 of the Constitution. In addition, we cannot agree with the project's position that the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in part of the foreign, defence and security policy should correspond to the President's messages to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government program is based on political party programs, electoral blocks that have received the support of most governments. I'm not saying that the Cabinet of Ministers has rejected the proposal for the introduction of the Cabinet and the ministries of state secretaryship, but this is again initiated by the President. The faction therefore proposes to support Bill No. 2325 as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u116	Thank you. From “Our Ukraine” Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u117	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction. About a century and a half ago, the famous composer Ferenz List, appreciating the creativity of his colleague, said: “You have a lot of good and new, but the problem is that what is good is not new, but what is new is not good.” Unfortunately, this is true of the bills that we are considering today. They are not three levels: one of them is maternal, and the other two are children, but different "parents". And so again: “what is good is not new, but what is new is not good.” Yesterday, at a committee meeting, it was very authoritative to state that the Kabmin bill did not contain violations of the Constitution. I'm going to take this opportunity to make those positions specific, where there's a direct contradiction with the rules in force today, not the old constitution. First. Article 4 of the Cabinet Bill stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers is governed only by Presidential decrees. At the same time, there are 113 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. However, it was forgotten that there is also 116 articles in the Constitution, paragraph 1 of which states that the Cabinet of Ministers ensures the execution of all acts of the President in force under article 106 of the Constitution. These rules of the Constitution have already been forgotten. Article 9 of the bill proposes that the President apply for two foreign ministers and defences at the suggestion of a coalition of MPs. Yesterday we saw political variations on this subject in the session room, and the Kabin turns out to be an active participant. 24 Articles of the Constitution, as many as two violations of the bill, 2 violations of the Constitution. Part 7 provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel acts by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Well, if you don't like the Constitution anymore, look at the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where these things are indicated. But I would like to remind you that article 16, paragraph 106, is granted solely to the President of Ukraine. Part 9. Cancelling the decisions of local government administrations. Article 18 of the Constitution gives this right, not to the Cabinet of Ministers, but to the President or to the head of the district administration regarding the district. Article 30. Here we have a very interesting thing. In the legislative process, we have the President's procrastination veto for the passed law. Yet this article, contrary to the Constitution, gives an absolute veto to the Cabinet of Ministers and not even to laws, but to bills that have not yet been considered. This is a unique norm when the Cabinet of Ministers, the executive branch, prohibits the legislature from considering legislation. It's already such a harsh usurpation of power that it doesn't go down in the Constitution of Ukraine, but in general in the doctrine of a democratic state. Article 32 — What Is the Great. Authorizing the Cabinet of Ministers for the budget. The Parliamentary authority to adopt the Budget Resolution is completely forgotten, instead of the Kabin accepting the declaration of budget objectives and tasks. The truth in Ukrainian is, "I'm drinking, I'm walking, I'm going to bed, I'm going to bed myself." Article 42. At last, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a standard schedule, a regular schedule of self-government organs. We have never had this norm, but the practice of the old regime has also been actively fought by the Supreme Council. Today we are offered this revision, in principle, of local self-government, not only in the Constitution of Ukraine but in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, to review and empower the Cabinet of Ministers to govern local self-government. The bill has many other things. For example, the notions of appointment and authority are completely confused. It's a complete mess and it's hard to figure out what it means. It is not clear what the Cabinet of Ministers is all about. And especially interesting things are related to the pension and social welfare of cabinet members, and this looks very good, especially in the face of a sharp downturn in the salaries of government officials, which is foreseen in the Cabinet’s Debate project. I agree that the Cabinet of Ministers Act is necessary, but I ask what law is needed? Does the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the right to adopt, in the first reading, a bill that grossly violates the Constitution of Ukraine and I have already said, the doctrine of a democratic state. So I strongly believe that these bills need to be sent back to re-reading, to seek agreement, to remove.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Honorable MPs, which was pleasant in our discussion, that everyone who spoke from the faction testified that the factions had dealt with these issues. I mean, they expressed the opinion of the deputies. However, if someone insists on taking part in the discussion, if there is, it is possible, but I think they have said enough. Yeah? From the procedure? Please don't sleep. Out of Matthew's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u119	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, now we have a real fact of the absurdity of the Rules, which does not allow us to vote on unconstitutionality. Because if we had 150, as this was once about unconstitutionality, we wouldn't have pushed the bill into the veto, and then repeated the new circle. Obviously, it is worth going back to this standard today, although it is clear that this is not a question that is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u120	He is the author of this amendment and the Rules, tell him why he has imposed such a rule that unacceptableness is not considered by the Supreme Council. So, please, colleagues, listen carefully. We've heard three drafts of the law. Mikolo Vasilovich, now. We've heard three projects. They are to a different extent good and to a different extent bad. But what I'm saying is, we're not going to adopt a law that violates the Constitution in any way. The proposal made by Yuri Bogdanovich is, indeed, good if we were ready today to prepare a project that will really fit the Constitution, but practice says that it will be a continuation of the previous drag-and-ramp discussion. You can't do that. We need to build on a project and consider it. I think we're going to win in this respect. And in addition, the working group that worked on the project in the Supreme Council should, of course, be filled in by Nikola Vasilovich Onischuk, who was directly involved in the last cadence of the project, and he is, in fact, a recognized expert in this particular legal sector. I wish we had that in mind. I'm going to sign this, literally, today, you're going to join the task force and work on the document. From his motives, Mikola Vasilovich asks for a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. The authors of legislative initiatives, you know, have the right to a closing word. And I want very briefly, first of all, to thank the entire room for the atmosphere of support for the bill that I have reported, and first of all for the idea of depoliticizing the issue and, in particular, the adoption of the law. At the same time, Alexander Alexanderovich, I am somewhat surprised by the report of the head of the committee, who instead of apologizing on behalf of the committee members that they were unable to consider the bill for a short time, in fact he accused you of getting it, and to some extent me that we sent him in a timely manner materials to let them know about it, even though I officially stated to you, and to him on the same day that such a bill was registered, he was in the database and had to reproduce, distribute and ensure, as provided for by the Constitution and the Rules, a mandatory review of the bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u122	Mikola Vasilovich, we will not discuss this. And just to be clear, because on the basis of your project that you've reported, both the government document and the presidential document, because the scheme is like that, you could say that the committee has been working on it too, just as soon as it's concluded, it's procedural. Anyway, whatever project is not accepted as a basis, I, for example, will vote for everyone as a basis for continuing the process of preparing the document for the second reading. So I'm voting on Project 2325 to view it as a project that can be adopted in the first reading. Here comes the vote. [[13:20:01]] For 247 On the basis of an accepted project. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules, I do not put the following drafts to the vote. Once again, with Mikola Vasilovich's participation in preparation, Onichuk Mikli Vasilovich's participation in preparing the project for second reading, prepare it in such a way that he does not in any way contradict the Constitution of Ukraine, otherwise he will not pass through the session hall. Thank you. You want the factions? Please announce the factions. Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialists – 31, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 4. A total of 186. 241, I think. The question of the election of judges is being considered. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov has the floor. And then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear national deputies, present! At its meeting on November 15, 2006, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, acting as chairman of the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court, to elect judges of appeals and local courts on an open-ended basis. The committee has supported these submissions and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect the judges listed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree number 2544, issued to you on short notice. Ladies and gentlemen, under the procedure that has been drawn up, I will read out the names of the judges mentioned in the draft decree. If there's a warning to the candidate, then we remove it from the general list and go back to it separately after voting on candidates that have no reservations, and we take decisions on each individual. All the judges are in the guest bed. The election of judges. Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Xinani Alexander Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Beste Grigori Borisovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Kuhar Alexi Vasilovich, the Transparent Marina Leonidivna, Fisunova Leonidovic; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Kodrul Mikhail Andriyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Borzanic Viktor Ivanovich, Jurchenk Anatolia Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava district of Batrak Volodymyr Vasilovich, Novohatna Valentine Andriyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Plains District of Matthew Yuri Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Puzanov Ludmila Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Czernovetsk Region of Horecki Svetlana Alexijevna; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Oksenenko Oleg Mikolaiovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Jacques Galin Andriyevna, Skurd's Ludmila Mikolayevna; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal Dugarenko Olga Volodymyrna; the local Berezan City Court of Kyiv District of Alexander Mikolaiovich; the local Ship's District Court of Mikolayeva Pochrovsk Tetjana Semenyovna; the local Shevchenkovsky District Court of Chernovci Dudaków Sergija Evgenović; the local Hmelnick City Court of the Hmelnick district of Furik Yuri Petrovich; the local court of the Dnipropetrovsk district of Tetjana Volodymyrna; The local court of the Cherkas region of Khabazny Yuri Andriyovich. The committee is asking for support for this draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u124	I call on the MPs who will vote, you have no comments, no claims, or disagreements with the candidates that are being put forward and provided for in the draft decrees? None. Can I put this ruling to the vote? Yes. That's why I'm voting on a 2544 registration number for the election of judges. Please determine how to vote. [[13:26:14]] For 406 Decision taken. [[Applause]] . On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I wanted to welcome the judges of the new, elected on an untimely basis, and also to welcome the Head of the Supreme Court, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, who has now filled the ranks of the judges, to wish them success and a fair trial. Well, you know a lot of illustrations, even fairy tales, and so on. So make sure that you succeed in your work and that more and more citizens do not resort to procedures. Good luck to you, thank you. For a report on the draft decision on the holding of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the first deputy committee head in foreign affairs, Head of the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Mr Oleg Grigorovich. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u125	Honourable National Deputies, Ukraine, as a great European nation, is actively engaged in international cooperation in the field of international security, development and cooperation. We are very active and strong in the organisation of the OSCE, which today, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is now becoming a global organization, unites countries starting with Canada, and the latter has been joined by an independent Montenegro. A group of Ukrainian national deputies of various factions -- Belarus, Kožara, Cnervill, Nemira, Logwinenko, Staszewski, Korz -- took the initiative and prepared a draft decision of the Supreme Council to be held, document 2495 of 7 November this year, on the holding of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Kiev from 5 to 9 July on the basis of our Supreme Council. [[BUT faction]] [[region fraction]] [[region fraction]] [[BUT]] This is a great honour for the Ukrainian Parliament, and this honor is elected through an appropriate competition. In addressing this issue, Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation were our partners and competitors at the sessions of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. A decision was made, and the Assembly agreed to hold such a forum with us. And there's got to be a huge preparatory work program. It should be said that a country, a member of the OSCE that accepts an international forum such as the annual session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has a significant impact on the preparation of Assembly resolutions and recommendations. So politically, it's cost-effective, and it's going to talk about increasing the authority of our state and its impact on collective regional, inter-regional security and development issues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on November 8, reviewed the draft decree and, in solidarity, unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council take such a decision. The adoption of this decision today will provide an opportunity at a national level by creating a national-organisation committee worthy of preparing and holding this important forum. The designated forum will have an unprecedented scope for the Ukrainian Parliament. About a thousand world parliamentarians, representatives of international organizations, a series of plenary meetings, committee meetings, working groups, protocol arrangements, visits, meetings, and so forth are expected. The holding of a higher inter-parliamentary forum will also require some expenses. In this case, we're going to do everything we can to make sure that the expenses of the Supreme Council are at the expense of natural and physical expenses, that is, our participation will be financed through the provision of halls, computer, plural technology and so on. A comprehensive solution to the questions related to the organization of this great forum will require the assistance of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President’s Secretariat, and a wide range of ministries and offices. Because there's a regime, and security, and visa procedures, and hotel accommodations and a whole bunch of other important issues. In view of this, we consider it necessary not only to take a decision but to open preparations for a session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the basis of the Supreme Council Regulation, which now has the status of a legal act, the law. This decision provides for the establishment of an authoritative national organizational committee for the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is to develop a programme and a plan for preparatory action. It is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers should provide the necessary financial and material resources in the State Budget project and ensure coordinated work by all ministries and departments, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Supreme Council. I believe that the conduct of the preparatory work and the holding of the annual session of the Assembly, the Assembly of Parliament, will contribute to the promotion of the authority and protection of the honour and dignity of our state. Please support the draft of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u126	Is there a question for Oleg Borisovich? There's a question. Sign up, 6-7 minutes literally. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u127	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, dear reporter, the faction has discussed the draft decision and in general we tend to support it, but I want us to clarify two things. First of all, is this initiative agreed with European structures, because some of our colleagues today are willing to initiate any law, including that of the sun coming down on the other side of the planet. But it won't go there. So that's one question. And the second question. We understand that to some extent this action is going to be, let's say, paranoid-feast, representative. Is it worth the cost of Ukraine to carry out this action in Ukraine with the benefit that we can get from it and who will finance it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u128	Peter Stepanovich, you know very well that Ukraine, like other member states of the Parliamentary Assembly, is not only able but also obliged to hold appropriate sessions. This is also true of the PACES and others session, in turn. But you don't have to worry, it's okay. There is an appropriate resolution of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to agree and choose Ukraine itself, to support Ukraine and this is very good for us. As far as funding is concerned, it is only partial on our part, and in part the secretariat of the EU Parliamentary Assembly will be funding. Moreover, our financial or resource share will be natural physical. We're going to use this hall, we're going to use vestibules, we're going to use multiplication techniques, and this is all going to be counted to us. So this is going to be the minimum, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u129	Give me a chance to finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u130	I finished my answer to Peter Stepanovich’s question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u131	All right, then Widow's asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u132	Oleg Grigorovich, is really a valuable initiative, and I think we still haven't had similar forums in an independent Ukraine on our scale, the number of participants, the importance and so on. But that's what Ukraine requires, especially the Ukrainian Parliament, to do, really, huge organizational and financial work. You said we were going to hold this forum on the basis of Parliament, and I feel like we've got somewhere, some base out there in Concha Sleep or something, in these government reserves.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u133	I don't know the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u134	But then you improved what was in this room. But really, I would like to go on with what Peter Stepanovich said, doubt, really the issue of funding. I was the director of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u135	Let's hear some interesting biographical data from Gennady Josephovich. Let him finish his thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u136	I worked as director of the Department of Conferences and Synchronic Translation at UN headquarters. It's a huge number of people that have been involved, that's only, I know from my own experience how much organizational arrangements need to be carried out, mobilized workers with language skills. This is probably going to come to 60 parliamentary delegations or 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u137	More.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u138	More? That's a huge number of people. But this action really shows.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u139	Gennady Josephovich, a question, not a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u140	The West will show that we are not savages. Thank you. I asked for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u141	But we've known for a long time that we're not savages. Please, Plotnikov asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u142	Oleg Grigorovich, is the issue of the participation of OSCE representatives as observers in the Ukrainian elections in the order of the day 16 sessions, as is traditionally the case? That's the first part of the question. And second, how can these representatives be more objective?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u143	Thank you. You know that this international organization, which includes the permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is fully responsible for monitoring, holding parliamentary and presidential elections in all 56 countries. And all 56 countries, despite the level of democracy and influence that they have to accept, even the United States has accepted huge delegations of international observers. So these questions will be considered. With regard to the question of increasing the objectivity of the election evaluation, this issue today has no direct bearing on the agenda, but it is very relevant, and as a permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we constantly raise the issue on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u145	And the representative of your faction, the distinguished colleague of Ephraim, is the Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation, he has the right to vote and the right to speak. We'll discuss this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u146	From the faction of the Party of the Regions question, Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u147	Dear Oleg Grigoryevich, I know this is very honorable and important for the country and your personal role in this weight. I'd like you and I to conduct this event very systematically. I think we should set up a working group and show at least three issues. First. That today's political model of our State is effective. Second. We must demonstrate to the European Community the economic potential and, of course, the historical and cultural potential. All of this together should be outlined in the programme, in the programme of the working group, the money is not small. The most important thing is that we do not turn this serious event into a “pomps fight” event, because it is a country-wide business card.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u148	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u149	From the experience of such sessions, I fully agree with this point of view. Because it is important as a country, as its parliament, as its parliamentaryism can show its country. And this session is going to work as part of a political committee, full membership, an economic committee, full membership. I mean, all 56 countries and the Committee of Democracy, human rights in total. There will be a huge number of representatives of international organizations, not governmental organizations, and they will all listen and watch Ukraine. They have the right, if they want, to travel in the area, to get to know the life of our country. The advertising company we started in Brussels in July this year, where there was an exhibition, where there were movies, videos, everything started. But all the basic work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u150	Valery Grigorovich, thank you for the thorough answers to the questions. Have a seat, please. Is there anyone who would like to make a statement on this matter? Then we will put to the vote only on the basis of the questions and answers that have been made. I mean, a lot of the deputies were in these sessions of the OSCE. I've been on a few of them and I want to say that it's a very serious matter to prepare such a thing, it's to show the product to the face, to show my country. So let's take this decision seriously and get even more ready for this session. I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. [[13:44:53]] For 376 Decision taken. The factions? Please use fractions: Regions – 167, Block Timoshenko – 91, “Our Ukraine” – 63, Socialists – 32, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 3. That's my offer. We have here a whole block of laws that apply to Ukraine’s entry into WTO. They should logically go on and on. So let's put them up at 4:00, and in the meantime, let's review the re-reading of the first reading, if you don't mind, of the draft Act amending certain laws, legislative acts concerning the registration of means of transport. Can I do that? Do we have a reporter? Dmitry Volodymyrovich, ready to report? Don't you get it? Holy Dmitry Volodymyrovic Project 2082, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, this bill has been tabled at the request of the WTO. Today, the WTO, in its negotiating process with Ukraine, requires Ukraine to lift restrictions on imports of vehicles over 8 years of age. But if this happens, it will result in Ukraine’s market being opened and Ukraine becoming a garbage dump for the cars that were in use. Thus, this standard, which is required by the WTO, proposes to remove age restrictions, but to introduce such a innovation as the payment of a first registration transport tax, which is common in the queue, that is, today for cars with an annual technical review of the registration in Ukraine, and for cars with more than 8 years it is introduced as a larger, larger one to protect the market. I mean, those people who have cars in Ukraine today, they're not going to get hurt, they're going to pay the same tax from the owners of vehicles as they pay today. That's not the way it is. So the committee considered this bill, it had a long, let's say, term, there was a certain number of re-registrations of this bill, but it's already agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because to throw out all of these, let's say, disadvantages that were in the first place. So I ask you to accept this and the author's point of view and the committee's decision to accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u152	The question is to the reporter? There's Refat Chubarov, please. Do you have one? And you will. Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u153	Dear reporter! Now I have a situation in Crimea, the name of this citizen, Kozak. It's been a year since he can't get an old car like that. He came to a permanent place of residence in Ukraine. And I'm at war with the customs office, and I hope they can hear me right now, and they've written so much customs. I mean. His car. From now on, I want to ask you. There was this decision, we took our time to tax such machines as they have in their old age. If we now make such a decision, can't your law provide for such a situation that it doesn't apply to people who move to Ukraine to a permanent place of residence. And you know, we have targeted programs, by the way, government programs, and so these people who are going to transport their own cars out of Siberia, out of Darkness, out of Central Asia, their "Ladies," "Moscows," so they don't pay as much money as you predict in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u154	Dear colleague! Thank you for asking. You know, there's a rule today that if a person changes citizenship, moves to a permanent residence in Ukraine, he's not paying today. I think it can be written on the second reading and opened to take these right suggestions into account for the second reading. Please do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u155	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u156	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear reporter! The current legislation provides a number of benefits, a number of preferences for the registration of a means of transport, such as those with disabilities. I'd like to make it clear to you, especially for the transcript. Will this not affect the cancellation of positions that apply to benefits or preferences in the form of a means of transport for persons with disabilities? And the second question. That's what this is all about. Is it going to happen that now we're going to take off these age restrictions on transportation, and at a second rate we're going to be offered to cancel the material restrictions, and eventually we're going to turn into some kind of parking space for European metallurgy? Please specify these two moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u157	Thank you very much. That's a very good question. As for the first one. All the current benefits for all the benefits categories of Ukrainian citizens in the payment of the transport congregation remain exactly as they are today, they are not cancelled, they remain exactly as they are. The second question. You know, this position, this bill, it's in the procedure envisaged by the GAT SOT, it's already consistent, this is the procedure with the GAT SOT standards, and if these material restrictions are recognized, they're not to be removed under GAT SOT procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u158	There are two more who would like to ask, ask questions. Sign up for four minutes. Four minutes. Jaduzha and Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u159	Give the word to Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u161	Thank you. You know, it's a very interesting thing. Our faction, the project represents a national MP from the faction of our Party of Regions. I don't understand the situation at all. I'm the reporter. Why doesn't the Cabinet of Ministers support this project? And you're going out today and you want this project to go through. I don't understand this logic or the situation. And that's why I know that there are different thoughts even in our coalition. And so I think, Alexandre Alexandrovich, this project should be taken down today until we see it, we will not be convinced that it is for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. And if Minfin doesn't mind, then there's a cave of some kind of personal interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u162	Paul Gnatovich, I'm sorry, you know, this is a very emotional speech, but, Paul Gnatovich, this is to you personally, Paul Gnatovich! Please hear the answer. I'll be right back from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We've been working on this bill in line with the Ministry of Finance, consistent with the Tax Administration, and there's already a positive conclusion after all the redrafting of this law. So please ask the Cabinet of Ministers for a positive conclusion. According to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u163	Korsakov. Paul Gnatovich, do not interfere with the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u164	I support Paul Gnatovich, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u165	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u166	I want it again, Your Honor, there's a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Economics, it's now being worked out, but we have a large number of drafts, unfortunately we're adopting Soviet laws in a very narrow period. There is already a positive conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u167	Please! Please. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, here's the conclusion of the Committee on Banking. financial and banking activities. Questions. He's offering to take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u168	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u169	Yes, in the first reading with observations. And you're on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u170	All notes to second reading. The second reading procedure will be accepted. Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u171	On the basis only. Well, that makes sense. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u172	I would like to stress once again that the Cabinet of Ministers supports these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u173	Have a seat, please. Are they willing to discuss the matter? Are they desirable? I'm asking you, not two minutes, you asked four questions, and then another two. I asked four more questions. Please! I'm addressing you, then we won't be able to take advantage of your needs. Please, or let's keep going. I mean, that's the detail. Put your hand down, please! This document was discussed in the first reading already in full procedure. Decisions were made for redrafting in the first reading. They've been working on it. The Nuances that changed this project in relation to this are explained here. You want to discuss the full procedure, write it down, no problem. Sign up. Representatives of the faction are recorded first, and then there will be deputies who want to speak. Samofal is the first to speak from the Party of Regions. Samofalov. Follow him, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u174	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! This law has already been approached on several occasions. Unfortunately, we didn't even finish it in faction. Today, on the part of members of the faction, my colleagues made proposals. In principle, I also support Pavel Gnatovich. But I would like to propose such a mechanism, to postpone voting on this issue today, to discuss, in order to make the right, informed decision, because today, in violation of the Rules, we do not have the Government and Minfin in our hands. I'd like to transfer it to tomorrow, after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u175	Please, Baby. The question will not be considered tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow will be Saturday. So I'd like to calm everyone down right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u176	The lobbyism shown here by our colleague Svaš shocked even his faction members, so openly and cynically stretching their own questions. I have a question for the Saint. That is, when we examine the bills that he introduces, all that is involved is car building. Question: Is he an automobile specialist or a lobbyist, because, as they say, it has something to do with companies that trade and manufacture cars? And I want to remind you, Alexander Alexanderovich said that this bill was adopted, it was once considered in the first reading. He didn't look at it, Alexander Alexandrovich. I want to remind you of the history of this bill. The Holy Bill -- today we're trying to look at it in the fourth place. Last time, a week ago, he did his own copy of this draft. What is this bill that Ukrainian citizens understand, which even the faction of the “Regions” opposes? The bill envisions a tenfold increase in car payments. This bill applies directly to the pockets of four or five million Ukrainian citizens. After all, not all citizens of Ukraine have the opportunity to travel to the Mercedes. Most of them drive old cars that they bought from the Soviet authorities, or today they raised a thousand dollars, two dollars, and bought an old car. And you're offering these, and you're offering these people to make them pay for the incredible congregations, the customs, and so on. In short, the adoption of the bill will result in a higher level of tax burden on both legal and physical persons, a disproportionate increase in taxation rates, a failure to develop small and medium-sized businesses, which will be unable to meet their tax obligations to the budget, a protectionist nature in relation to owners of domestic motor vehicles may lead to a significant decrease in the quality of domestic vehicles in line with price increases. To sum up, I urge the Supreme Council not to tolerate, as some representatives say, this bill, so that something spins with it again, but to reject it at all. And these kinds of bills don't even appear in this room that only solve their own issues. The lobbyists don't belong in this room. You're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u177	I'm asking you to use the replicas later on. I support Lalashka's words about the fact that the Saint often speaks out of questions he understands and, of course, he loses Oleg Valeriyovich here, who speaks out of all the questions, especially by quoting the conclusions of the expert board. Well, then, everyone acts as he does, the right of every deputy. That's one thing, the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-16-m0.u178	I'm not commenting. But you came to me. I'm answering. Thus, it is still important to note that the adoption of this law is a requirement for the entry into WTO. So I don't like what's predicted here either, some of the norms, let's be careful about this. After the break, Matvienkov and Karpuk will perform after 16 hours. There's a break until 4:00.
