ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u1	Registered in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. On the basis of article 13, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the withdrawal of the faction “The only Ukraine” of the national MP Bespalov. There are 13 national deputies left in the faction. I'd like the faction's leadership to have that in mind. Yes. Please, Gmira. Microphone. Please, the microphone. I'm a gmirja.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u2	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have read this document, the Constitution so-called. There is no change in the Constitution. Instead of changing the Constitution, there are many variations in each article, and changes are made in the Constitution Amendments Act. Vladimir Mihajlović, there have been no constitutional changes in Ukraine since first January, and there is a single text of the Constitution. There's lots of stuff everywhere. Do you understand? There's only points in each line. This. And the Ministry of Justice is allowing itself to draw points that are eloquent in the Constitution of Ukraine. I think we need to get this over with. That's a second. Our Ukraine's statement has only been adopted, and a statement that degrades most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now being circulated without output, and it is written that the people who voted against the Government have changed Ukraine. There's no output here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u3	Now we're going to study this question, and according to that, the charges of treason, that's the case with the election campaign, everyone's case. Dear colleagues! We're continuing to review the bills with a reduced procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition is being announced for consideration. We've already considered this, we've made our decision. The draft Order for Supplements to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Rights of Property to Certain Property has been announced. Andrew School, please. You don't? Please, Philip Philipovich Budzigan from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u4	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment last October 19th, Protocol No 96, reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Supplements to the Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Right of Ownership of Certain Property, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine School. Number 7374. The project is proposed to allow, listen closely to, citizens, civil society, international organizations, and legal persons of other states in Ukraine to have ammunitions equipped with rubber or similar properties of nonlethal metal shells and devices to fire their domestic production. In its conclusion of 21.06.05, the Chief Science and Export Authority notes that the bill can be based on the proposals and comments they have made. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a project to be adopted on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u5	Let's move on to the discussion. Ivan Hare, please. None. Santa Claus, please. Will you be performing? Turn on the microphone, please, Mikli Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u6	I'm asking you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u7	Olga Hinzburg, no. Basil Nadrag, no. Corge, please. None. Then the bill, registration number 7374, is considered completed. I've read everyone who signed up for the show. Please refuse to speak. You're not here, you're not registered. There's a Hare, there's a Garden, there's a Hinzburg, you're not here. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to adopt the draft decision as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Order for Supplements to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Right of Ownership of Certain Property Types. Registration number 7374. Please vote. [[16:09:00]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The committee suggests that we do not send for re-reading, remove from consideration. Draft order, registration number 7374 is off-limits. So it's rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on government and local budgets income]] Registration number 6081. Reporter Sergey Pravdenko. None. Please serve as Head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, was discussed in detail in the budget committee in Bill No. 6081. The Committee notes the main positions set out in the bill. The bill proposes to amend the Budget Code and to determine that the type of income such as income tax should now be included in the budgets of the respective cities of Kiev and Sevastopol - 40 per cent, the budgets of the cities of republican importance and district - 30, the budgets of the cities of regional importance of villages and villages - 15, the district budgets - 15, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the district budgets - 10 per cent. The second part of the bill deals with amendments to the Income Taxation Act and determines that now the payment of the corresponding taxes will be made, the income tax will take place at the place where the branches of the enterprises concerned are located. The committee notes the following. The proposed changes lead to the redistribution of funds between government and local budgets and reduces funding sources for the corresponding state budget. The adoption of the bill, in our view, will lead to a full balance between the State budget and the loss of more than 7.8 billion dollars in 2006. I mean, under any circumstances, these proposals can be seen as coming in exclusively from the following year. The Committee is currently preparing a draft Law amending the Budget Code, which sets out the new rules and conditions for the calculation of local budgets so that the cost of public social services is fully taken into account in the local budgets. And the law under consideration in the committee is more systematic, more scientifically sound and more balanced. It will lead to the formation of new principles for the preparation of state and local budgets. In view of the fact that the bill proposed under No. 6081 does not meet international standards and standards in determining the rules for paying income tax, the State budget is not balanced. The committee has taken a decision and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to reject, i.e. not to accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u9	Yes, thank you, Ludmila Pavlovna. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich was enrolled. Please. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We have missed a brutal violation of the law and the Budget Code, the "On the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev", when we passed the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. It predicted that this tax, 100 percent of the company’s income tax, was on the budget of the city of Kiev, 100 percent. Now, I think the Chinese didn't understand it, and the Kiev City Council didn't understand it, but we got in the pocket without changing the law without doing anything about it. And now we're spending time looking at a bill that has no basis at all for setting the proposed size of tax deductions for the profits of enterprises in local government budgets, and it's completely breaking even the budget that's already been adopted with breaches of laws, even though we've been trying to break these laws. I don't know what Matthew thinks. He's been sitting there for years. But I can't see Minfin's calculations to this law. Well, please, Reverend Minfin, give me, even if it's Pupkin's signature, if there's no finance minister there today, whoever you give. Well, let's do the math. You see, if we're going to pass such laws, such serious laws that 8 billion almost immediately knock us out of one side or another, it's just an anecdote. What you give, I don't think you should give. The Committee on Budget Affairs needs to be clearly defined, and today this law does not apply. Ludmila Pavlovna, this law today should not have been laid down and persuaded by the Head of the Supreme Council, who is responsible for the meeting schedule in the first place, because that board of factions, it is with him, it answers that this law should not be imposed because it is completely frivolous. So let's turn him away, we won't go back to him. And the people's deputies, Pravdenko and Hubski, say that we need to read other laws, including the law on the capital of Ukraine, about the city of Kiev, which it clearly contradicts, and there are no changes. And I'm looking at that this mint doesn't know that there's no change there, and that doesn't apply to anyone. They simply broke the law and all the glory of God is with them. And they don't thank God. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a Syrian law, is totally unconscionable and subject to rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u11	Mikola Sadowa gives the right to speak to Michael Melniczuk. Please. Get ready right away. I can't see. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk then.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The warnings from the National Deputies and the Committee to the bill are and certainly the faction of the Socialist Party will refrain from supporting the bill. But I'd like us to understand one thing. This is about the income tax that will be taken into account where this business is located. Of course, that's a good one. But let's take a look at Ukraine and figure out that if we take the example of the Chernobyl area, we don't have dozens, we have hundreds of businesses that work in the Chernobyl area that don't register. These taxes are paid, not at the place where the company is located, but at the place of registration. So most of them, we understand what's registered in Kiev. We understand how they work. We realize that to some extent there is an ecological problem in the area where they are located. But once again, this territory has no profit, no income from these enterprises. I could give an example of the Lopushnian Gasolinephthorphede of the Viznicke district of Cherniewec. If an enterprise operating in the area of the Viznicke district had been registered where it was located, the local budget could have been 21 million to the budget of the area. And the state is squeezing the area by 26 million dollars. Please tell me, what would be the point of the State to do drugs if the proceeds came from this enterprise located in this area? I'd like to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now, literally before my exit, I received information on Parliament's rostrum that the Act had been suspended by paragraph 17 of the 2006 budget for children of war. I don't understand, we've actually reached a compromise, we know that 700 million dollars have been budgeted, and we agreed that this would be the first phase of funding this law. What the following will be reviewed, the budget will be reviewed, another billion 300 million will do, we will certainly accept and vote on the faction of socialists. But if that is the case, I think the Minister of Finance should be on the rostrum soon enough to explain it to the people of Ukraine. 6 million citizens of Ukraine are awaiting the operation of this law, the "Children of War" Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u13	I will now ask the secretariat to check the information immediately to the Chief of Staff and the Committee on Budgets, since everything has been taken into account, and we agreed when we made the appropriate decision regarding children of war. Please, Sergey Shevchuk, then Olga Hinzburg. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill provides for amendments to the Budget Code in part to the income of local budgets, which are included in the calculation of transfers, to the income tax of enterprises. In fact, it is quite attractive, but it contains some significant gaps. First. The allocation of this tax to the income accounted for in the transfer calculation does not actually increase the volume of local budgets, since the budget is defined, not as income, but as expenditure, in part of the delegated authority. Thus, adding this source of income will automatically reduce transfers from the State budget. And second of all. Taxes on income, such as VAT and excise duties, refer to those types of income that are very unstable and highly dependent on industrial activity and have no legitimate influence on local authorities. And now we're talking about taking care of local authority. Changes in income from this tax are very important and sometimes reach 100 percent for the primary budget lines of villages and towns. So it's just not possible to produce an income formula that adequately track these changes. This will really mean that budget failure in part of this tax compared to the budgeted Ministry of Finance can be disastrous for individual local budgets. The benefits for the local budget from the implementation of the tax plan, like others already included in the state budget, are, in our opinion, slightly better. And this will help to avoid budget failure. So we suggest that we take these comments into account when we adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u15	Thank you. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u16	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Communist Party faction. I'd like to start by saying that the government, we're working with you to make our local budgets, which means our Ukrainian citizens in large and small cities, feel protected. And as we consider today the budget of a small city or village council or a large city, we see today that it consists of only a salary, a totally net salary. And if there's any way that local authorities can make some money, they're going to the development budget, and then we can run gas from this development budget, help some poor family, or rebuild something else, and so on. And even that practice that worked for several years when transfers or subsidies went on, for example, to gasification or to technological situations, we didn't get it this year. So for example, I'm looking at my Konotap. Instead of a million four hundred, we only got 180 thousand. And the rest, everything we've done, we don't know what to finance. And when I look at this law that's proposing, it was a very good idea for him to do that, but so we can't do that, local budgets, because other cities, some urban cities have profitable enterprises, others have non-profits, villages or large villages have no enterprises at all, and so it has to be done centrally and centrally on urban budgets to pay interest on the income of businesses. I want to say this. That's probably what's important. We've talked a lot to you today about the gas problem. I wanted you to hear the problem. She's already in our cities today. You see, if utility companies, and that's where to take money from, if before the gas utilities paid for a thousand cubes of 213 dollars, then from January 1st we're going to be paying 65 dollars for a thousand cubes more, so we're going to get 270 dollars for a thousand cubes. If a small town burns about 400,000. Cubes, that's every day minus the city budget is $25,000. That's right. Where are we going to get them? And when the government says it's not necessary today, they're not going to raise utilities, I have a question: which is why the local budgets are going to run out every day of 25 grand. The money that fell on the city's budget as gas prices went up? And we're talking to you that we don't have a problem. We've had it since January the first, because the price of gas has gone up by 25 percent of utilities, we're not talking about industrial gas anymore. So the problem, and the government needs to solve it, is that the city budgets stand very tight today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u17	Yes, from the government Deputy Finance Minister Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm not going to waste too much time, I just want to point out in detail that the bill in question is balancing Ukraine's budget system at all. I have nothing, in principle, to add much to the professional presentation by Ludmila Pawnee Suprun, who said about the bill. I'm asking you to listen to her suggestions and accept the suggestion that changes to the Budget Code should be made systematically, as suggested. And in preparing these systemic changes to the Budget Code, there are issues that have been considered and addressed. Please: support the proposals of Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun not to consider this bill today, not to make a decision on it. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, regarding the information that was said here about the protection of children of war, I just want to remind you that when we consider the draft budget in the Budget Committee, we have reached such a consensus that we are implementing this law in a step-by-step manner. And the State Budget Act 2006 provides us with the funds to implement part of the provisions of Article 5 of this Law. With regard to the seventh part of article five of this law and article six, which requires some 12 billion dollars, I would like to remind the distinguished national deputies that paragraph three of the Act on the State Budget 2006 provides for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is as follows: “As a result of the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes a further phased introduction of the article of the Sixth Law on the Social Protection of War Children”. And we'll sit down with the Committee on Budgets and then deal with the situation of budget implementation and make the right decisions for your consideration. Please consider this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u19	Please, Cibenka, and then Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, you're on the committee, in fact, you can agree on anything, but it's up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, even in spite of the agreements reached, article 71, paragraph 17, you didn't exclude and recommend the internal contradiction of the document -- that's the first. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully support the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the budget code, and I support it. In particular, I am concerned about the problem of financing rehabilitation centres that are now funded by the Social Protection Fund. But my Law, supported by the Committee, has not been discussed in this regard for two years. So when do we begin to have complex changes to the budget code? Well, neither can I. I support it, but you can't stop looking at the problem in a very relevant way for years. So I would like us to solve the problems as they really arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u21	Ludmila Pavlovna's wife, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, please take the following into account regarding Bill 6081, this bill balances the entire and the local budgets. Because if the company that pays the income tax in a small village pays 100 million, there's going to be zero next door. And that's why this document is unacceptable today. Our task in the changes that we are developing on the committee today is this: we have to give local budgets 50 by 50. 50% of the budget is local budgets and 50 is a state budget. With regard to making changes, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am sure that at the beginning of the new session on the first or second day, Tuesday, or Wednesday, this particular bill will be brought to the attention. We're going to make it, complex changes. Otherwise, if the Supreme Council fails to review them, the new budget in 2007 will be developed according to old standards. And the rehabilitation center, Peter Stepanovich, is the rehabilitation center we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject the bill, registration number 6081, amending some of Ukraine’s income laws on State and Local Budgets. But according to the procedure, I am putting to the vote the first sentence on the adoption as a basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the income of the State and the local budgets. Registration number 6081. Please vote. Based on the base. [[16:30:29]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The bill thus enters into force as a proposal for a committee to reject the bill. The bill was rejected. A draft Act on the conditions for public transport during working hours is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7371. The reporter is Michael Dobkin. Prepare Orestus Dmitrovich Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u24	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Today, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act on the conditions of public transport during working hours. The purpose of the Act is to create more favourable working conditions for employees of individual budgetary institutions, namely, budget staff, medical institutions, employees of internal affairs bodies, prosecutors' offices, Ukrainian Security Service, State Executive Service and employees of regional centres at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. The law provides the basis and conditions for free travel in all types of urban passenger transport, with the exception of taxis and road transport for general use in rural areas, public transport during the working hours of employees of the above - mentioned budgetary institutions in performing their duties. The need to adopt the bill is due to the fact that health workers and other workers listed in the draft law are not the most protected groups of the population. Although our society may have an essential and useful social function. First of all, they have a low wage to meet all normal human needs. Second, very often in their service, they have to spend their own hard-earned, hard-earned work, money to move around the city, the area, the village to carry out their duties. Is there no contradiction between a person like a doctor or a social worker protecting the interests of society and working for the state spending his salary, which is still low. I am confident that the State must ensure that this category of budget workers is free of charge in all forms of urban passenger transport, except for taxis and road transport in rural areas during the course of their duties. The adoption of this law will also reduce social tensions in society, particularly among the designated budget officials, and will contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of these workers in view of the fact that the need to pay their own money in the performance of their duties will be eliminated by the adoption of this law. I ask you to support the bill in the first reading and, if it is accepted, to take effect on 1 January 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u25	Yes. Please, Oreste Dmitrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u26	Honourable Head, Honorary Fellows, National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the conditions of public transport during working hours, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Dobkin. The bill lays down the basis and conditions for free travel in urban passenger transport in the course of working hours for budget workers, medical institutions, internal affairs agencies, prosecutors, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Executive Service, the Ukrainian Ministry of Labour’s territorial centres and social policy. For most of these categories, there is a provision for compensation for free travel. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council concludes that it is appropriate to reject the bill as a result of the first reading. Experts point out that there are currently acts that regulate the professional activities of some of the above-mentioned categories of workers, which reinforce their right to free travel by general use. In order to exercise this right, the Cabinet of Ministers has approved the procedure for reimbursement of expenses, although not covered by the bill. And the subject matter of this regulation. experts believe that this bill is subject to regulation. In general, the subject of the bill’s regulation does not, in their view, provide sufficient grounds for determining the bill’s level. In general, the committee considers that the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u27	Thank you, Boris Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Melniczuk. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I think this bill is extremely raw. And unfortunately, I understand that I wanted to settle what relationships are, but I can't even imagine how you can predict today what the author wanted to take into account. I'll tell you what. The point is that article 5, for example, provides the right to use travel documents exclusively during working hours. Tell me how to explain that a police officer is driving with a travel ticket right at work, that he's got a working time now, when he's got a night, dinner, all the time. To whom will he explain this, controller, to whom will he explain it? How do we determine whether it's a social worker or someone else? Absolutely, you don't have to do that, and you don't have to do that. Further, the limited principle here is, this is article 4 of the law, you refer to the employees of separate budgetary institutions, which extend the operation of the law, the employees of budgetary institutions, internal affairs agencies, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the State Executive Service, the territorial centres of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Tell me, please, an EU staff member who received a signal that there was a bird virus, that there were other problems? And the fireman who ran there to check that there was a fire, not a fire, because he had to spend 40 liters per 100 kilometers on the car. They told him, you run first, then you call, that's what there is in life today when you save fuel. And the definition of public transportation, which is here in this law, is also unendurable by criticism. Because there is a rope road in Odessa. There is a rope road not only in Odessa, in several other cities, but also in Yalta, for example, a rope road. There is a Funikuler in Kiev. And now in Odessa, thank God, "Funiculer" is working, repaired when they changed power. So the question is, are we also going to give them the right to drive there? Of course,' says Suhi. So, dear friends, this bill is completely unprepared so far and cannot be accepted. Besides everything else, there's the Police Act, there's the Prosecution Act, there's the 25th section of the Security Service Act, and every other law provides for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u29	Mikhailo Melniczuk, PSU faction, please. Get ready, Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u30	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, surely the drafter of the bill has good social intentions. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which in turn all its own. and protects the social development of Ukrainian society will be supported in the first reading, but of course it needs to be thoroughly worked out, or 95 percent change in its direction and the ideology of the approach to solving the problem. We have repeatedly said that we do not need to turn the citizens of Ukraine into the fact that the state should give benefits to someone. When it comes to medical personnel, it's about the police, the Ukrainian Security Service. Dearly beloved, let us raise such a salary and not demean these people with taxes, benefits, because he got on a bus, a young girl who works as a nurse, and she has benefits, give her a normal salary, and live a man not by one pass in the transport, but live a man and she needs from the morning till the evening her family to support herself, dress like this, so that she responds to this person coming along, or a police officer and so on, he must support his family. So the faction of socialists insists on reviewing the question of how to approach wages and on substantially increasing and not lowering the benefits of Ukrainian citizens, or taxes, as we sometimes do. Just talk. We'll support it in the first reading, but this bill in the second reading doesn't have a chance. We offer a different approach and ideology. Let us raise substantial wages, put a dot on this issue, and do not humiliate the citizens of Ukraine who are performing, we will speak, the duties imposed upon them by the State, our country. Now I would like to say what to do about the benefits for those who are unemployed today. Today, more than a million unemployed are officially registered in Ukraine. Unemployment accounts for 60 percent of the country’s population. Please tell me how these people are going to be, where this category of people will have the right to travel in transport. So you understand, we can solve one question, we can aggravate it socially, so we're talking about what we're going to do today, we're going to go to this bill, we're going to be professional, we're going to support it in the first reading, but we're going to say that we're going to take a step that raises the pay grade and doesn't have to prepare our people with the benefits, because basically a healthy person doesn't want the benefits, it wants to work and it's worth the pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u31	Vladimir Novak, please. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u32	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Honorary colleagues, the bill provides for the establishment of grounds and conditions for travel in urban passenger transport during the working hours of individual types of budgetary institutions in carrying out their duties. No doubt the intentions are noble, since today, at our level of material medical care, it is vital that a business physician has the right to travel to a patient free of charge. I, Oreste Dmitrovich, a colleague, Klimpush, was speaking here, claiming that some people are being compensated by the state, disbursed and reimbursed for the passage. If this is heard by the district doctors, I think they're now dying of laughter, I'd like to see at least one local doctor who would be compensated for the passage. The same applies to members of internal affairs agencies, prosecutors, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Executive Service, and others. The project is intended to compensate municipal transport services for the proper and timely cost of transporting individual types of budget institutions. At the same time, careful study of the law raises a number of legitimate questions. And here I fully agree with my colleague Karmazin, what is the term. First. What is the term “working time ”? Because for different categories of workers it's defined differently, it needs to be clarified. The other one. The project states that free travel is available in buses, trams, and trolleybuses, subways. What about those who live in small towns where public transportation is no longer available, municipal property is being transported by private entrepreneurs. Won't there be a colossal? Who will compensate for the cost of an entrepreneur? And if they refuse to transport such benefits, they will be responsible for these passengers. Dear colleagues, we need to look at these things in real terms. Today, the state is unable to compensate carriers for the cost of transporting passengers in full. Each year, this debt increases. This gives rise to some tension in society. The Supreme Council adopts laws on benefits, but they are not implemented. The paradox is that a person has benefits but cannot take advantage of them. And the state can't protect his right. He can't or he won't. So we need to think very carefully about this project. As members of the Communist faction, we are convinced that it should be accepted. Because the project’s position is aimed at improving the well - being of our people. But it is only necessary to adopt it in the first reading and to allow the authors to revise the law, taking into account the comments and suggestions made today and in the conclusion of the General Legal Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u33	Andrew Skull has a word for Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u34	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that I have no reason to support both in the first reading and in general. Because the bill itself, it's not a matter of severity, it's a bill itself, although it can be discussed in a timely manner. Because at the moment, we have to say that it's very difficult for people who have a minimum, low wage to abuse travel tickets or pay. It's the same thing as saying that pensioners abuse their free passage in public transport, and indeed, pensioners are more in public transport than other categories of citizens. But what does that mean? It just means that they have a tiny pension. We need to raise our pension, we need to raise our salary to a serious level for all categories of citizens of the benefits, and that's it. And then, the state will be rich and rich, it will only care for those who cannot take care of themselves. This is meant for disabled people and other categories of citizens. It will be, I think, not soon, unfortunately. So now it's just not a timely project, although we can argue with the legal part of it, because the concept of working time, here, sends an article of the second bill, sends us to define the term "working time". The Ukrainian Labour Code, which does not contain the definition of working time at all, defines the “minimum working time”. That's why there's work to be done here. During the week, it is meant. And all the categories of listed citizens, they have abnormal working hours. And when is there a working time for a police officer? Well, when he's got a job, then he's got a working time. If the police could afford luxury to work from 9 to 18, I think it would be nice to have crimes committed at this very time. And the rest of the time for criminals to rest. Well, it doesn't, and it never will. And even in the most developed countries, there can be no such thing. So I think we need to move away from things like this and take as an example, if we're going to talk about a certain, let's say, rating of operatives and militia personnel, we need to take the experience of developed countries. Even there's a pay pass. Well, of course, everywhere is free of charge -- that's understandable, and the taxi gives you a receipt, that is, a law enforcement officer gives you a receipt, takes a check that he's using the services, and has accordingly recorded that he's paid it. That's it. And then there's the owner of the vehicle and the police. So you don't have to be happy with the illusion that we'll ever have this way of determining the working time of a police officer, a SEZ employee, a medical worker or any other service that doesn't have a normal working day. Therefore, the faction of the Block will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u35	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u36	John Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plush. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should look at this issue from a broader perspective. Because I heard my colleagues speak and say, well, how do I separate the time when there's a militiaman or someone else doing their duty when he's using a car in his own personal interests? But we know well that our work uses machines in our own personal interests. And that's not a secret. Maybe you've heard on TV that in the Czech Republic one of the ministers rushed to football, and the journalists found him leaving the government house at five o'clock, and at seven o'clock he's already seen him in the stands of this stadium at another locality. And they figured out that he couldn't make it after working time for this football. And they took it into account that the minister was obliged to resign. What's going on? That we don't know what's driving these cars? Wait, ladies and gentlemen, the left and the oligarchs. Please don't confuse me, because you won't beat me. Therefore, order should be given to the use of service transportation. It's, if you want, a little something to do with the salary that we have today as a high official. And this high-ranking official has a salary of 10, 20,000, or more. And then there's all this stuff. This is where the electoral campaign starts, and now all the brothers are going to move into state cars. And then what will we see? Will this be reflected in funds, such as election funds, the use of service transportation? It won't be reflected. So let's transfer the power to the wage, let's de-commercialize the power. These other things, these other things have to be taken over by the sanatorium. We have to have the money that goes through the State Budget, which is controlled by the people that are controlled by the Court of Auditors, and then we're going to say that we're building a just society. Today, officials use this transportation to avoid being said. That's a lot of money. So, honorary lefts, you don't scream, oligarchs do the same thing, because you probably use that most of the money. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenko and Plushka advocates that laws be passed in order in this area. They can be clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u37	Dopkin, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Of course, I would like to recall the words of the classic who here in the walls of the Supreme Council said, "People, what are you doing?" The rivers are drying, the trees are all cut! This is about the second statement, the last one today. And if in fact, I want to tell you this. I've heard today that instead of this law, we have to raise wages. I categorically agree that the salaries of the budgeters should be increased. But tell me, what difference does it make? How much should a doctor get? Why should he spend his wages travelling in public transport if he was there to carry out his duties? What salary would a doctor not pay, why should he spend his family's money if he was to be given an opportunity by the State to get there to his sick? Or a cop at a crime scene. Therefore, I do not agree that this law depends directly on the increase in wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u39	Please, Oreste Dmitrovich Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the noble goal is being pursued today, but it cannot be solved in the way it is proposed. First of all, there's a lot of places where there's no public transportation, and that's where the same medics, the same militia personnel, and so on and so forth. Therefore, the only way to resolve the matter is through pay. That's the first thing if we want to make amends. And the second. I didn't mention health workers among those workers who are being compensated and compensated today, but I mentioned that there is a government decree since 97 that has resolved the issue of compensation for police, prosecutors, the Security Service, and so on. Thank you, and I ask you to listen to the committee's decision: today to support such a bill is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u41	The position of the Cabinet of Ministers, please. Who is the Kabin? You don't? Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject the draft Act on the conditions of public transport during working hours. But in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first sentence: adoption of the draft Act on the conditions of public transport during working hours. Registration number 7371. Please, the vote is coming. Vote, please. [[16:55:20]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 14, Communists – 52, National Party – 17, "Our Ukraine" – 0, Block Timoshenko – 2, SPU – 20, National Block – 18, SDPU(o) – 4, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, "Rebirth" – 1, National Movement of Ukraine, "Reforms and Order", Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "One Ukraine" – zero, "Afterfractional" – 3. A draft Law on the National Energy Regulatory Commission of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers 6269, 6269-1. Igor Francchuk, please. Prepare Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u42	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The National Electricity Regulatory Commission has been operating on the basis of Presidential decrees for 10 years. The purpose of the draft law is to improve the efficiency of the State regulation of the management of the Ukrainian fuel and energy complex through the legislative strengthening of the powers and functions of the National Energy Regulatory Commission. To date, the Commission is a public administration with special status, and according to the Concept of Administrative Reform in Ukraine, approved by the Presidential Decree of 22 July 1998, the particulars of the establishment and operation of special status bodies are established in each particular case by the laws of Ukraine. The drafting of the bill therefore entails the need to legislativeize the status of NCREs, determine the modalities for its establishment, sub-control, specific tasks, powers, the status of members of the commission, guarantees for the operation of the commission, its units and so on. I'm going to take a brief look at the bill itself. It consists of 6 sections, general provisions, competence of NCREs, structure, organization, activities of NCREs guaranteeing the performance of NCREs other issues of NCRE activities, the final provisions contain 21 articles. The main provisions of the bill should include: legal rules that define the status, tasks and functions of the NCRE. Status of its members. In particular, article 1 of the bill establishes that the National Commission for the Regulation of Energy of Ukraine is a State authority with special status, which works on a collegiate basis. The draft defines the tasks of the Commission and its functions in the area of State regulation of the activities of fuel and energy operators. Ukraine's draft law on the National Commission for the Regulation of Energy of Ukraine sets out the procedure for the establishment and structure of this collegiate body. In particular, in accordance with article 8 of the NCRE Bill, I request that I listen carefully to this as one of the differences with the subsequent draft law of my colleague, Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinović, that NCRE is headed by a Chairman, who is appointed and released from office by the President of Ukraine in agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Vice-Chairman and other members of the Commission are also appointed and dismissed by the President of Ukraine. The articles, inter alia, included initial proposals for the Supreme Council to determine the members of the Commission, but unfortunately this is not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, where there is no such body today, in particular the National Committee on Television and Radio. Therefore, the next stage, after the adoption of this Act, we must try, I think that the composition of the next Parliament will be able to amend the Constitution and make NCREs available to the list of commissions that work on, including on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u44	Yeah, I'm done. I would like to take a brief look at the differences in the next bill, in particular article seven. The laws are practically the same. Article 7 is included in the next draft law on the specificities of the commission's pricing authority, which cannot be regulated by the law on the status of the regulator. And the rule of article nine of the next bill on the importance of the members of the Commission of the three Cabinets of Ministers of Ukraine, four more Cabinets of Ministers, but on the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, in the context of Ukraine's transition to a parliamentary and presidential form of government in which the Government is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such a system of appointment of members of the commission makes no sense. The importance of adopting this law today, I think, is understandable to everyone. Yesterday we witnessed NCRE setting the tariffs on which we imposed the moratorium. Therefore, the Supreme Council's monitoring of the work of the Commissions should be binding on the Supreme Council to agree on the appointment of members of the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u45	Thank you. Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. You have before you two bills dealing with the streamlining of state regulation in energy. The legislative provisions of this body are contained in several basic laws on electricity, on oil and gas, on natural monopolies, on the basis of State regulatory policies in the field of economic activity. These have been adopted at different stages of State development with different understandings of the role of State regulation, resulting in legal conflicts, and government regulation is sometimes replaced by manual governance. The terms of reference of this body, the National Energy Regulatory Commission, must be outlined strictly so that it does not become a barrier to energy relations. In addition, it was designed for start-up purposes only to regulate electricity, and is now engaged in heating, oil and gas and other natural monopolies in energy. Bill No. 6269 was created by the authors as defining the activities of the NCRE itself as a State body, and it attempts to streamline the rights of its members and the functioning of the commission as such. It does not take into account the changes in the Ukrainian Constitution, nor does it clearly specify the terms of reference and functions of the regulator. The bill received a negative feedback from the Scientific and Expert Office. In its consideration, the members of the Committee invited the authors to finalize the bill, which had not been done. Bill No. 6269-1 deals more fully with the issue of public regulation, it deals with fundamental elements of regulation, its validity, its orientation, the interpretation of the regulatory powers of price policy as one of the most important modes of government regulation. It protects economic actors from unlawful interference by the regulator, ensures the independence of the commission from administrative interference, and provides it with the resources to provide activities. The Committee is of the view that project 6269-1 would optimally streamline energy governance issues. It takes into account the European model of State regulation and reflects all the requirements of the Energy Directives of the European Union and takes into account the constitutional changes in the powers of the Parliament to form an executive power. In finalizing the second reading bill, it will take into account the positive provisions of the alternative bill. Draft Law 6269-1 is supported by the Scientific and Expert Office, the Council of the wholesale electricity market, the NCRE itself. In view of the stated, distinguished colleagues, the Committee proposes to support Bill 62.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u47	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u48	Two seconds. The Committee proposes to support Bill 6269-1 on the State Energy Settlement Authority and to adopt it as a basis for first reading. All the provisions of Bill 6269, which are incorporated into this concept, will be taken into account as valuable and a single bill will be finalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please show me Yuri Carmazin, Mikola Sadowa. There's Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. Yuri Anatoliyovich, get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I have two bills before me. I've studied both of them, but unfortunately, I can tell you that neither one nor the other is in line with the existing Constitution, nor the interests of the present moment, and they are in conflict with other laws, including the Constitution. I'll start with the last one, because he's being reported right now. The National Commission is proposed to make a special status body. The Law on Natural Monopolies states that it is the central body of executive power that is being created that is being eliminated by the President. Another issue that we need to review is that we need to make complex changes to both laws and laws. Why? Because practice shows that under the President, there's a lot of his assistants and advisors, and that's all. I've told you this since I was President of Kuchma. Now you're convinced that when the president changes, there's still one person who can't cover everything, and there's going to be some unserious thing going on. Let us, therefore, not place too much responsibility on one official. Then you suggest that out of the four members of the Naccomy, the government appoints the Supreme Council, but again in the current law by the Prime Minister. And it would be wise for the government to determine who to work for. Then you suggest that this committee actually be here, first of all, its prosecution of decisions in court does not stop them from being executed. This is article 14, part 10. This is in general the contradiction of the Constitution, a contradiction of the Administrative Court Code, which gives the court the right to make an administrative appeal, the openness of the introduction to stop the decision of the subject of authority. What are you doing? Now Bill 6269. There is also the right of both the President and the government, and again, full and complete violations of the law and the law and the Constitution. I think that, unfortunately, neither one nor the other can be accepted. That's also the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. For example, article 22 of the bill proposes to refer the solutions to disputes arising between participants in the fuel and energy markets in contract making. Why, then, did the judgment come about?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u51	Santa Claus, please. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u52	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Kirovograd district. Today, the energy sector is in the office of the President of Ukraine, as the National Energy Regulatory Commission of Ukraine is subordinated and accountable to him. I emphasize, in the office of the President, but not directly, of course, the President. Because the President doesn't run it, he runs the President's environment around him. Hence, there is a contradiction in the legal basis of this central body’s activities, which has special status. The previous speaker highlighted some of the points in detail and I fully agree with his conclusions. At the primary stage of state energy generation, this structure was certainly justified, but there are many divisions in the lives of citizens that become more difficult every day. I'm going to give an example of this, a household example of famous dormitories that were owned by state enterprises at the time, and then by VAT, by ZAT, and so on. For example, in the city of Kirovograd, electricity consumption standards in dormitories that do not have counters, individual counters, are meant to mean that the national commission has set 100 kilowatts per person and plus 25 percent for other family members. And the owners are ten times larger. In particular, a hundred bucks a month for one person. This is certainly the first in terms of Kirovograd VAT and the liquidation commission of the Bank “Ukraine” in the Kirovograd region. Of course, such contradictions must be eliminated; they must be protected. Because even in a court of law, it is difficult to protect a person. Therefore, once again, the legal basis for regulating this problem is needed. Socialists support this arrangement and support a number of legal positions that relate primarily to the protection of electricity consumers, where the system should be put in place. First of all, socialists support the position of subordination of the National Commission of the President and accountability of the Supreme Council. It is necessary for the commission to be headed, by the appointment of the President of Ukraine and by the consent of the Supreme Council, then this commission will have a different status. The bill is a well-written body, but it does conflict with a number of provisions of the Constitution and a number of laws. That is why one bill and the other need to be united. On the first reading, socialists support the bill. It needs to be processed and then accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u53	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u54	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear colleagues, I would like to look at this problem from a different perspective. I don't think anyone today has any doubt about the need to create such a commission. The energy sector of Ukraine is currently in the field of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the country, as well as the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine, which is directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine. How they directed energy to you and not only to you but also to all of Ukraine: rice, energy prices, and heat, has hurt at the level of life of every Ukrainian family. The bill proposes the creation of a special state energy body that is subordinated to the President but accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This body is given a number of functions for the implementation of state regulation in the field of the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine. This is very important, because it's clear to everyone that the fuel-energy complex in Ukraine is in crisis. Regrettably, the State essentially transferred this important branch to private hands and, as life shows, did not direct it. Just a branch dedicated to its ransom for power, which, without scratching anything, fills their pockets, creating welfare for themselves and their children and grandchildren. State regulation – zero, responsibility for the state of affairs – zero, come to the pen, suffers the economy of Ukraine, suffers the people who, by their work, worked for several generations, created this complex, and all are said to be in the lantern, almost like in a famous movie, only the film formula is more fair: “Wassidius, got out, stole into prison” and in another life: “He has come to power, he has stolen – to resign.” That's why some people go to power, walking around people's heads, ignoring their interests, hiding the will of the people. We Communists believe that Ukraine's energy needs to be taken under the control of the state for a long time, where it's true that those responsible for this sector have a personal responsibility to the State and the people not only administrative but also criminal and that's fair. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council will vote in favour of this project in the first reading. It needs work, but Ukraine needs it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u55	Thank you, too. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u56	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. I would like to point out that, of course, all the bills are needed that are adopted in the Supreme Council. But those discussed are not always needed. I think it's this particular bill that he deserves to be considered for the first time again. Because it requires too much work. Because we need to change the concept of the law itself. Not adding and subtracting, but simply modifying, redrafting and redrafting the bill itself. Because there's a general plan here, there are specific remarks. But in order for us not to talk, we have to figure out first what the commission has to regulate. Energy. This is a very broad area of governance. This is where it develops and approves and is based on the creation of the sphere of the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine, and approves the pricing rules. tariffs, develop requirements, monitor investment programs, develop general requirements for competitions, develop and approve rules for the use of goods and services at retail prices within its competence, regulate payment and settlement relationships and so on. This is going to be about 20 minutes, just what this committee is going to do. Basically, at this point, we can say one thing. That the law itself should be. But this law is imperfect. Because the project needs to comply with the law on natural monopolies. When a lot of exiles are sent here and there is a constant conflict with the law on natural monopolies. In vain, the drafters failed to draft the Law on Natural Monopolies and thus did not escape conflict and dissonance. Here, too, we should look at how the head and members of the commission appoint the Prime Minister to serve and suspend their office as President of Ukraine. This is once again a direct confrontation with the law on natural monopolies. Because it's actually being created here without an influential control authority that monopolizes all energy rights. I mean, we're with this one. How about to adjust something, we create another natural monopolisticist. We will have enough Naftogazu Ukraine, which has been very well settled and signed, let's say, an agreement that is not worth even discussing in this room. We have already expressed our position on this matter. Therefore, the National Energy Regulatory Commission of Ukraine needs to have its own law, but not this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u57	Yes, dear colleagues, as far as possible, 4 have already spoken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the National Energy Regulatory Commission has been completed. These are projects 6269, 6269-1. Committee position. He suggests that the committee accept Project 6269-1 and send Project 6269. And this is a proposal from the Science Export Committee. Dear colleagues, I'm voting according to the registration. Proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine. Registration number 6269. Author Igor Franchu, Ludmila Suprun, Mikola Rudzkowski Yes, there's a vote coming, please. [[17:18:47]] For-174 The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft law registration number 6269-1 “On the State Energy Regulatory Authority of Ukraine”. Author Vladimir Bronnikova. Please vote. Well, I'm voting on a committee proposal. [[17:19:17]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Maybe in this way, your honor colleagues, send two projects to work out and do one, assign a committee. No warning? The proposal to re-read the drafts of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, registration number 6269, 6269-1 of the commission of the Committee to process and submit a harmonized version of the draft law to the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[17:20:08]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7702, is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening the legal protection of citizens and the guarantee of the rule of law]] The reporter, Mikola Onichtuk. None. From the Committee of Mary Andriyevna Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u58	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has been reviewed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Onischuk Mikola Vasilovič, on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the legal protection of citizens and the guarantee of the rule of law]] It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of its first reading and to send for further revisions for the first reading. The bill proposes to amend three laws of Ukraine: the Police Act, the Operation and Investigation Act, and the Organization and Legal Frameworks for Combating Organized Crime, with a view to imposing restrictions on the use by law enforcement agencies of hats in carrying out these duties, namely to prohibit them from being used in cases where the activities of law enforcement officials are not related to the destruction of organized criminal groups or armed criminals. By supporting the very idea of defining in the law the grounds on which hats, masks or other similar means can be used to prevent legal guardians from setting up their persons, the members of the committee believe that the proposed amendments proposed by the bill, without reinforcing the legal protection of citizens and the guarantee of legality, will impede the work of law enforcement agencies, effectively increase the unwarranted risk and their employees will be identified as criminal elements with all the resulting consequences. According to the general conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, this bill should be sent for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u59	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna, for you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please. He's refusing. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u60	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, would certainly have to listen to the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and then discuss it. But since I've been given the floor, I'd like to express the faction's position on this. The faction will not support the bill. We have many warnings. And I think with the committee's opinion, there's going to be people's deputies here. We need very, very much to say, to approach in principle the changes that are proposed to be made to the Police Act and not only. As for the issue of strengthening the legal protection of citizens and the guarantee of the rule of law, I would like to say that it takes a lot of effort. I could also set an example today in the region of Cherniewec. I still don't understand that power is definitely working in places, but in which direction, we know very well already. Three months ago, in the area of Chernobyl, the district government, the district government, met with new settlers, who had certainly made their request to comply with the law, we would talk about granting permission for their entrepreneurial activities and other suggestions for improving their work. But it's been three months, and it's now there. Today, newcomers, who serve more than 35,000 people in the Novoseltsky region, and not only the whole region of Cherniewec, work without permission. The district government of my parliamentary address replied that such a commission had been formed and that the question would soon be considered. But now that it's not DAI, that's not tax inspection, other services that stop these people are fines because they don't have permission to give power. That is to say, an example of compliance with or strengthening the rule of law when the authorities themselves are violating the law of granting permits, and we will talk about the legality of their entrepreneurial activities by new settlers. So, I think if even someone is going to vote in favour of this bill, then, of course, everything in life is different, what I'm saying is that you don't have to think about how to strengthen the rule of law, but you have to abide by the laws that are in force today in the territory of our Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u61	Mikhailo Rodionov, microphone, please turn on the Communist faction. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u62	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable national MPs, respected radio listeners, of course, this law makes sense. But it doesn't seem to me that there are law enforcement officers in masks or without masks, depending on what they're doing. So with regard to that particular fact, it is, of course, possible to find some understanding after the discussion. This is probably not the case. It is not uncommon for law enforcement officials to misuse physical force when performing their duties but to violate not only the rights and freedoms of citizens but also the physical harm they suffer. I had to meet her on Saturday. One of the visitors told me a story that his fellow Pechersky district police officers had decided, they said, to remove him from the U.S. president's office, brought him to the Pecher Police Department, well, he was released in the morning, of course. But they say: “You sign a letter that you have no claim to me. He says: “ I can’t sign because you broke my finger, yes. And the claims are still, me." He says, "The finger is the finger." But as they say, it's not an accident, really. He brought the trial, and the court acknowledged that he was right, for he did not break his own finger. I'm talking about the fact that, of course, what kind of society does that happen in militia cases. The Communist faction has numerous letters about human rights violations involving individuals and groups. It seems that a simple person is now protecting his life in modern Ukraine to turn to nowhere. As far as law enforcement is concerned, many citizens are simply afraid to go there. Because there are examples that end these appeals lamentably, as they say. We Communists see our mission to do everything we can to ensure that our law enforcement agencies still protect the interests of our ordinary citizens. And as they say, they were. They were indeed held by both citizens' freedoms and protected by these freedoms themselves. I've been passing Marcus over for the last few seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u63	Please, Maria Marcus. Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. This bill does not apply widely to restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens. In our view, it may limit the professionalism of law enforcement officials, since the essence of the bill is to restrict the use by law enforcement agencies of masks in the exercise of their duties or in the exercise of legal rights. It seems to us that a staff member's ban on wearing a mask can in some cases create a situation where he is simply forced to or disobey a legitimate command from a superior commander or to carry it out, this command, with a risk to himself or his loved ones. In many cities of Ukraine, most people know each other. And it is not uncommon for special forces to be forced to detain real or former law enforcement officials, or other persons they are familiar with, or are known in Ukraine. And in these cases, the use of hats and the ability of special forces personnel without worrying about themselves and their loved ones to carry out their duties. Such practices are known to exist in many lands. It is also known that we are now living in an era of global terrorism or the dangers of its application. So we think that this legislative initiative is premature. We want the police, other special forces, to carry out their duties legally, with honor, but without risk to their own lives and health. What's more, frankly, unfortunately, the footage is that real professionals often go into private structures, and we have to be interested in having the state fully perform the functions that the Constitution places on state law enforcement. Therefore, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u65	Yes, John Alexander the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u66	John Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we being asked to do? We are encouraged at the legislative level to prohibit militia units, including quick response units, from using masks except when used in the destruction of organized crime groups and armed crimes. And it seems like a guarantee or an additional condition to ensure that the constitutional rights of citizens are respected for personal integrity, respect for dignity and honor. According to the Ukrainian People’s Party, this is not the case, it is not the case. At least this is so circumstantial that there is no direct connection. We need to see not only the person with her rights, but we need to see that militia officer, a unit that often carries out a life-threatening operation. And in general, what is the term “the destruction of organized criminal groups and armed criminals”? I think this term is "damage," it's very conditional, it's not exposed, and we can't know what's behind it, whether it's physical destruction, some kind of shooting, or whether it's some kind of delay and so on. So here we see a lot of inaccuracies in the wording itself. So in our view, we can't support this bill, because it's going to put in a very, I'd say, a dangerous situation for those who are going to perform very difficult operations. It should be borne in mind that the use of masks is not only provided by internal affairs but also by the special units of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Tax Police Department, the State Border Service. There may be some sort of order between these offices, but we should not forget today and how the terrorist movement unfolds. Again, we must protect these people who are in great danger to guarantee the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Today, article 13 of the Ukrainian Police Act prohibits the use of physical and psychological influences to provide control over planned and pre-planned checks on economic operators. This rule is enough to guarantee that no psychological pressure can be exerted during such police checks. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, the Ukrainian People's Block Kostenka and Plushka will not vote in favour of this bill as premature and as a bill that has been drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u67	Thank you. The discussion is over. Minister, please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u68	Dear National Deputies! Allow me, on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to make a request to you. You know that I always carefully answer all parliamentary questions and do everything in my power to interact with parliament and executive power. Note, however, that law now attempts to remove masks from police personnel during special operations. In doing so, it is said that they should be used only in the destruction of armed criminals. So he has to go in without a mask to look at the bandit, find his gun, and only then wear the mask. It's nonsense. But I understand exactly where this law came from, because I can see the faction that gave it and I can see the date of the handout, right after we arrested one of the famous actors on Zakarpatta, who's covered in some kind of political repression. Dear representatives of the opposition! Fight, please, with Minister Lucenko, I appreciate it, and among other things, I support politically, it's the right thing to do, but don't fight the militia. During our independence, we have 878 dead militiamen in the line of duty in the past year - 21. And I would very much ask that no vote today in support of this law would add to us the dead bodies of those who defend the law and our freedoms with you. Once again, fight me, but don't be afraid of the militia as a state institution. I ask you very much not to uphold this law that destroys the rights and freedoms of the militias that protect us with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given the discussion, I will now put to the vote. I'd just like to go to the minister and say that it wasn't the opposition representatives who introduced the bill, that was made by the majority of the government, the author is Mikola Onischuk, not the opposition. I think we all understand that we need to support the minister's position in this case, if that's in favor of the case. So, your honorary colleagues, taking into account the suggestions made and the discussions made, I'm putting to the vote the first proposal for adoption as the basis for the draft law, registration number 7702. On amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the legal protection of citizens and the guarantee of the rule of law]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[17:37:49]] For the The decision is not supported. Here is the conclusion of the committee, honourable colleagues, of this content: “Transmit for work and re-read”. So I'm voting on my second proposal to re-read the draft law. Registration number 7702. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:38:21]] For the five of us. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants for Damage to the State is being considered. Registration number 7176. The reporter of Vitaly Oluiko. To prepare for the committee, the chairman of the committee will be Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u70	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the speciality of the institution responsible for the damage done to the State, is that he is directed to the protection of the property of the State, which is secured by appropriate military formations. Ten years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the provision on the material responsibility of military personnel for the damage done to the State. At the time, it was a significant step forward in regulating these relationships. Today, however, the mechanism for regulating the material responsibility of military personnel requires immediate improvement. Such a need is due to the imperfections of effective legislation, which unfortunately does not prevent difficulties in defining concepts, reasons, conditions of material responsibility, features of calculating the extent of the damage that has been done, and the order in which military and military personnel are drawn to material responsibility. The determination of material liability for damage to the State is out of date and many violations occur in the process of its implementation. Examples of these violations are cited in the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries. The draft law provides for a clear definition of the order in which a military officer is drawn to material responsibility, an investigation into the cause of injury, and the legal status of the official authorized to carry out such an investigation. In order to compensate for the damage that has been done, as well as the means and mechanisms for ensuring the rule of law, to attract a military officer to the material responsibility for the damage done to the State. Generally speaking, the adoption of such a project is necessary because the issue of legal regulation in order to attract military personnel to material responsibility should be regulated by a special law. The Ukrainian Act on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants for Damage, which was done to the State, should replace the provision on the material liability of military personnel for damage done to the State, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine ten years ago. In line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, this bill can be taken as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u71	Yes, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee, as it considered by colleagues: Oluiko and Chikal, the bill supported his goal of settling, in law rather than in law, let the approved Supreme Council base and order for military personnel to be brought to the material responsibility of the State to the detriment. This will strengthen the legal framework of our lives. At the same time, members of the committee, in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, commented on the Ministry of Defence, other power ministries and authorities, highlighted the very important shortcomings of the project. This is, above all: excessive detail is not about the law, but about the instructions; the lack of consistency of individual regulations with other legislative acts; the inaccuracy or ambiguity of individual concepts in the text of the law, such as military, criminal property and others; a certain uncertainty of the subject matter of regulation; and, in the opinion of the Committee, denial of the retention of the coefficient of multiple in damages and so forth. The comments are quite serious. But committee members believe that they can be implemented in preparation for the second reading of the bill. With this in mind, we propose to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u73	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Please, your performance. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been reading this bill and I've been thinking that we don't have a good time in the country or that the Ministry of Defence isn't doing well or that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is being distributed to us today, and to its officials, or whether we have something wrong with the other. Because when you talk about that commission that sold a lot of property, it used to be. Today, missiles are taken from the Odessa Institute of Land Army, equipment taken, equipment placed under Lviv, and exported. High - tech weapons under the open sky are stored! Mr. Secretary of Defense, Mr. Gricenko, President-in-Chief of Ukraine Victor Andrievich Yushchenko! Do you know that it's a pity to the state forever? Don't you understand? Is this done again on someone’s team? Then whose command is it? Cancel it. You're commander-in-chief today. And today we want to solve the question of how to remake the law. Why do I say that? With regard to the position on the material liability of military personnel for the damage caused to the State imposed by the Supreme Council’s decree of ninety - fifth year, only the articles were almost completely rewritten instead of what is now there. Military offences have been reported. What war crimes are, explain it to me. Can Someone Explain? One of the lawyers, why don't you explain what a war crime is?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, this is about state property, not military property. State property, I emphasize, in the military department, in the military service, in the security service, or in the MCS, where it should also be distributed, and in other ministries. Mr. Head, do we have anything in the main outfits on the Supreme Council? Something, I'm asking you to put some order in here. Dear friends, I believe that this bill with tremendous strain can be called a bill. There's a similar bill in Russia. There are other countries. But there they spread to all the military personnel regardless of whether or not they're military or not, that is, they're spreading the spectrum. And to God, with great intensity, let's say, let's accept, because this is just the end of the cadence, this is the end of the session. But the soul.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u75	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Anatoly Domansky. No, it's not. Then Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u76	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. Ukraine’s Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants for Damage to the State is relevant, and it has long been relevant. Socialists support the bill in the first reading. This law was to be passed long ago. I don't think I'll be wrong if military property was used in the state as farm property, then all the military had not only housing, but they would be provided with all the social security. Well, a few examples. The city of Kirovograd had a matrix of nuclear warheads that had been exported along with all the property and equipment. And the people of the military were left alone with their problems without housing, without work. Or else. In the area, 46 mines of strategic missiles were blown up and all the towns of the military were destroyed. The question is, did the military towns have to be destroyed -- these buildings, first of all? No, of course not. But they destroyed it. They were destroyed, destroyed without giving anyone anything. And in the city of Kirovograd. And in the city of Kirovograd in particular, the military part of the US-27 was stationed. And she was for another six months. Part of it was decomposed. The planes have been destroyed. And the military lost their homes, without protection. And the huge property that was at this airport is now stretched, destroyed, and so on. Hence, the law is valid. But the law focuses on material compensation for damage to the lower ranks of military personnel. If you read it carefully, the lower rank, the lower rank, first of all, the private has to pay back that he did it or lost the cauldron or something. And for other higher acts, of course, this law is a little bit more widespread, although the title of this law is relevant and responds to more global problems. So socialists support the bill in the first reading, but the emphasis should be placed on the material responsibility of all persons, beginning with the rank and ending with the minister of defense. So I would like to conclude by stressing once again that the Socialists support this bill in the first reading, but that it needs to be worked out, worked out in a legal way, and worked out in order to increase the liability for damage caused by military personnel of all ranks, all military positions, starting with the military and ending with the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u77	Sergey Shevchuk, please, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! The Butian faction considered and analysed this bill in the morning and, unfortunately, made many critical remarks. The text of the bill is imperfect on the editorial side, several of the draft rules, as we think, do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft law does not extend to the members of the Ministry of Interior’s military and head office, with a number of shortcomings that can be long-term recalculated. But the discussion in the hall showed that there was a great social significance to what was happening in the military. So we agree with the notions that it's not just about military property, it's about government property, it's about not being in the world at all, even in terms of the usefulness of an explosion of one or another warehouses. He said what it would do if it didn't happen after the explosion. And then the environmental problems in the population areas around this compound are kept quiet. So the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, supporting the idea and taking into account the many shortcomings, will invite the authors to go back to the bill and reread the first reading to correct the shortcomings that have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u79	Yes, John the Rabbit, please. None. Ivan Alexanderovich, will you be performing? No, it's not. Chairman of the Committee of Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u80	I am truly grateful for the constructive discussion. And in connection with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s speech, I wanted to make this statement. Indeed, we are deeply concerned about what is being done now at the Institute of Land Forces in Odessa. I appealed as head of the committee and as a national deputy to the head of the State Property Fund, asking to know what was being done with the property in this institution, which, in our view, was being disposed of without a basis. Unfortunately, I got the answer that since this is going to happen in 2007, the institution is closing down, the State Property Fund is doing nothing. I'd like this to be considered as my parliamentary inquiry asking me to figure out what's going on with the property in this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption of the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants for Damage to the State. Registration number 7176. Please vote. Based on the base. [[17:53:19]] For-154 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second sentence: referring to the re-reading of the Bill's draft registration number 7176. Please vote. [[17:53:45]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, registration number 7754, has been announced for consideration. [[on the components of financial maintenance in the event of the death of an employee of the prosecutor's office]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Natalia Ivanovna Ivanova. And prepare Mikhail Alexiyovich from the committee. I'd like to ask you, fellow honourable Members, that we will now make a quick decision, and we can finish our work on that. I'd like to ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed amendments to article 50 “Prosecutor’s Office” are intended to identify the components of the financial security that will determine, calculate the amounts, insurance in the event of disability, disability or the death of prosecutors. This is about annual, five - year, and ten - year - old financial support. Considering that the bill is aimed at social protection, supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and the corresponding committee, we ask that the bill be adopted as a basic bill and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u83	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Alexiyovich From the Committee on Legislative Protection. I'm asking you, Your Honor, we're going to have to make a decision right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u84	This bill is discussed on a committee and supported unanimously, in fact, there are the shortcomings that have been addressed and compared with other law enforcement agencies, the situation that is causing the injury of the prosecutor's staff. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, this is a clear decision, I'd like to ask then. Well, please, Carmazin. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u86	Yuri Anatolyevich, you were the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u87	Just because I was a prosecutor, I'm telling you, you don't have to do that. [[Yuri Karmazin]] And I'll tell you why. It's not because Grandma Jake's against it. Listen, what's the point? The point is that the money that is included in determining the amount of insurance paid in the event of death, stressing the loss of life, the prosecutor’s employee, the salary and the allowance for the class act. And article 49 of the Ukrainian Procurator’s Law on the Pay of Prosecutors and Prosecutors’ Offices, with the exception of salaries and allowances for classes and deeds, including the benefit of years. What, then, will we do if a person is killed, we reduce the payment? And you're saying let's do it? What are you doing to make things better? And I say this is a deterioration, this is a violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Yeah? Yes, Mikhaylo Alexiyovich. So let's say what we're doing this for. Would it be better for those people? They're less getting the sums? They're going to lose a person, and they're going to lose less money because now they're going to get less. So I'd like to protect those privates who, God forbid, will die. Let them all be better off alive. You and I don't rework article 49 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. You don't have to do this. So come on, there's a benefit for years, and in this case it has to be included. I say again, so let's ensure people's rights, not make them worse. Let's provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u88	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u89	On the contrary, there was this position in the internal affairs offices and it was compared to a position that the prosecutor's office had virtually one, that the prosecutor's office had only one salary, and it didn't take into account what you were saying. And so we ask you to consider both class and rank. So it's out there somewhere. But there was no payment, there was nothing. There was an officer's salary. So I say, if you write here, you have to have internal affairs and BS. We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take this document as a basis and we'll continue to define ourselves. That's why. Based on the base. Now let's take this as a base, see if we have any votes. Let's see if we have voices now and then we'll go. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, registration number 7754, to amend the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, is being put to the vote. [[on the components of financial maintenance in the event of the death of an employee of the prosecutor's office]] Please vote. Please vote. [[17:59:22]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Melniczuk, please. Dear colleagues, well, I think we're aware of what Mikhailo Alexiyovich is talking about. Let's support his offer. And the government is asking for more. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u91	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Vladimir Mikhailovich! I wrote down, I would like to express the position of the Socialist faction that this bill should be supported, we voted it, and I propose to vote it out in general. Because we're talking about judges, we're talking about police officers, we're talking about the D.A., and there's always one thing, there's bribes, there's everything. Let's support these workers socially, and then we'll demand fruitful work from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for the adoption of the draft Law as a whole is put to the vote as a law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. [[on the components of cash receipt in the event of the death of a prosecutor's office]] Registration number 7754. Mikhailo Alexiyovich knows, and the government is offering to make this decision, let's support him, my dear fellows! Please vote. Let's support the government at this point, it's up to you. Yuri Anatolyevich, it's up to you. [[18:00:55]] For 224 Mikhail Alexiyovich, please turn on Mikhail Alexiyovich Poteko. It's a government bill, respectable colleagues! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u93	Dear comrades! It's by the law that I said it's equal to the police. What Comrade Carmazin said here may not have finished a bit. I ask you to adopt this very right law and you will do nothing else here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-11-m1.u94	I'm voting for a return to the bill. Registration number 7754. Please vote. On the return to consideration. It's all taken into account, you're told. [[18:01:55]] For 243 We went back to the vote. I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. [[on the components of financial maintenance in the event of the death of an employee of the prosecutor's office]] Registration number 7754. Please vote. [[18:02:27]] For 274 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10:00 a.m. on schedule for Thursday.
