ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio and television. We're starting the morning session. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A registration is being carried out. [[10:04:27]] There are 357 deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Two announcements first. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Zvani David Važajevich, and let us welcome him. Another announcement. In view of the 2007 plenary session of the Supreme Council, on 25 July, the Committee on Budget Affairs requested all committees, all deputies on the need to submit proposals to the Committee on Budget Questions on the matter. Once again, from the committees and the MP factions to the 19th hour of today. You have time to process this material, and I'll talk about it later, but I'd like you to really work productively on this very important document that will determine budget policy next year, and by 19 o'clock today, you'll have your proposals. You can see that the list of issues that are being considered by the Supreme Council today is modest because the committees have not yet been able to address the entire list of issues that need to be considered today. And for now, we're going to consider the issues that are being prepared for the plenary session, and then we're going to continue working on the committees. The first question is the draft order for the release of Eugrafov Pavel Borisovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, has a say in this regard. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u2	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The Supreme Council of Ukraine received a statement from the acting Head of the Constitutional Court, Eugrafov, asking to be relieved of these duties. Eugrafov, appointed judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 19, 1997, took office on June 27, 1997, from the date of his oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On June 27, 2006, the nine - year term of Eugrafov’s tenure as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ended. The Committee on Legal Policy reviewed Eugrafov’s application and invited the Supreme Council to release Eugrafov from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with his application for resignation. You've got a proper draft of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u3	Will there be questions for the reporter? None. Thank you. Have a seat, please. In fact, the question is fully legalized, and it is all in the documents. We must perform the function that is envisaged for the Supreme Council when it comes to such matters. So I am asking this question for a vote, about the release of Paul Borisovich Eugrafov from the duties of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Who's in favour, please vote. [[10:08:47]] For 289 The decision on this point has been taken. I would like to consult the authors of the statement from the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and the “Our Ukraine” Block. They're asking to announce a break for half an hour now, but by the list and content of the issues that we're considering, in about 15 minutes, you can take a bigger break. So if you don't mind, let's wait 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u4	They want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u5	You want to make an application, right? Is it a break? If I make a statement, please. Please. Well, in order not to take a break, they're offering to make an application, please, they're entitled to it. No, no, there is, there is. Look, there is, please, please. Julia Timoshenko has the floor. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, I'd like to make a statement on behalf of our faction right now. I think everyone in society today has realized that portfolios by committees, committee deputies, other positions and portfolios can be closed to those who have to protect Ukraine and work for Ukraine. And that's why I want to say that the kind of peace that was born in the Supreme Council is not exactly a peace that demonstrates stability that demonstrates harmony and that demonstrates justice. I want you to know that we've stopped using megaphones and bells now just to get the community to hear the rustling of dollars in this room. To let them know that everything people voted for was sold in this room today. And so people now know that these dollars continue to be passed on by the MPs and continue to lure these money MPs into this oligaric majority. I want to make a statement that our faction will never agree. Last day we completed a comprehensive legal expertise, which has both status and sufficiently serious credentials, which was handed over to the President of Ukraine. This expertise points out that all the reasons for the legal, constitutional, legal and absolutely reliable are so that this sales, traitorous parliament does not simply allow the country to be destroyed. And that the President today has every reason to announce the early elections. And this remains the only possibility for the President today to keep Ukraine from being destroyed, from returning to power as a “marine criminal”. And that's why we claim that we're leaving, our faction, this room by July 25th, until the President passes the decree on early elections. And we're leaving this room on July 25th, and we're counting on the President to use his constitutional rights and duties. And I would like to refer to the patriots who are in our Ukraine, do not allow Yanukovich to be expelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u7	I'm asking for your attention! Don't worry, please. Please don't worry, it'll be fine. I just want to remind the radio who hears these reports, that the so-called portfolio distribution or trading is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. And BET, by the way, took all the portfolios he was offered. So I think this demonstration is interesting. Please enter after the 25th meeting of the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council will work. Consider the following. Two factions ask for more words. Please, Raisa Vasilivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u8	Raisa Bogatirirov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Honourable voters, distinguished national MPs, respected media representatives. I want to start my speech with medical terminology. When there's a separation of consciousness, it's called schizophrenia. If we have one majority of the same national MPs, it's a patriotic nationalist majority. If the majority of the people's deputies who want to defend national interests have formed a little bit, it's already a different majority, and Parliament is becoming a sales force. Please tell me, Your Honor, how many requests have you written and registered for your credentials, as you mentioned yesterday, that 150 national deputies will drop their duties? Where are your applications? That you're lying to the people of Ukraine from this rostrum. And the last thing I want to say is, we've been so mildly persuaded to share our portfolios that we agree today, for the sake of peace in the state, to continue our dialogue and offer everything for a professional government. Where are your suggestions? Lying, cynicism, the constant excitement of the situation in Ukraine will only lead to one thing that people will force the President to make a conscious choice very quickly. And it is today that we submit to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, leader of the Party of Regions, leader of the majority coalition in Parliament as Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we are ready and able to form a government quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u9	I'd like to ask TV and radio audiences to look at what they are -- signs of democracy. Some express their thinking in a way that they think is possible for themselves, others in a different way, but we should do our own thing. Announcing the subject. I'm asking you, from two factions there was an application for a break, I got one. Do you all want to come out? Please give me 3 minutes from each faction. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich asks from the faction "Our Ukraine", then from the communists and the socialists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u10	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. Just now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has relieved itself of its responsibilities as head. Acting Head of the Constitutional Court and Judge of the Constitutional Court Eugrafov Pavel Borisovich. Let us thank him for his many years of fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u11	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, as you know, today's previous agenda, as the subject is called, was to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court from the Parliament and make them swear. [[Today we're off the hook and we've got another job.]] Clearly, the factions of the Supreme Council are not yet ready to make their proposals. At the same time, the faction "Our Ukraine" considers it appropriate to state the importance and urgency of considering the formation of the Constitutional Court by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the swearing of the entire composition of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The events that we have all been dealing with, the formation of a coalition, and not only, have shown that there is no political power in society or in politics today that is only one interested in the Constitutional Court working. Compliance with the Constitution and the Rules, in forming a coalition, was precisely a stumbling block when Parliament did not work effectively. The presence of the Constitutional Court at this time could quickly and effectively resolve this political dispute. That is why we believe that the constitutional Court of Ukraine's problem is the political existence of Ukraine and the stability of the political system and the stability of society. We would also like to point out that it is particularly important to form a Constitutional Court before forming a government and explain why. Because in this way we're creating another body, a fairly important body of constitutional government, as a government, the more the government that will reflect the interests of the political power of the majority, which will be beyond constitutional control. I think that both parliament and government, first and foremost, are interested in not doing so. We also consider it necessary to state another position on the recent appearance of proposals, not yet in the appeals, but it is already noticeable that the President and the Assembly of Judges of Ukraine should reassign judges who have been appointed by them in accordance with the Constitution. We want to state that there is no legal or political basis for this. The Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court really requires Parliament to do so within a month, but it does not determine the consequences of failing to do so. We claim that this can only complicate the political process in Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u13	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Who will speak from the Communists? Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u14	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! First, speaking now about the statement made by our colleagues from BUT, I expected the Head of the BUT faction to inform how much they had been bribed for the six committees to say, in a dollar's terms they had agreed and we voted with you to have their representatives lead these committees. They kept quiet about it, how much they got for it. Second. If the challenge was to get bribes for this, I would consider it possible that they should have declared their refusal to lead these committees and to participate in the leadership and the first assassinations and the assassinations and the secretaries of the committees. And I propose that, because they have left and we must continue the work of the Supreme Council, I would suggest that we review our decision to redistribute the committees into the Butov faction and take full responsibility. I speak of this, respected comrades, because the coalition is with you our responsibility to the people for the work of the Supreme Council and the executive, and this is called sabotage, when the six committees in the Supreme Council will not work and will not be considered on fundamental issues of any kind. So I suggest that we reconsider this decision. Third problem. I would also like you to inform the people of Ukraine, by supporting the statement made by the “Regions” faction, of how many applications have been made by the BUT faction on the basis of what they say, a proposal for the composition of the powers of the people's deputies. They took this responsibility, they said, let's know about it. Third. I would like to address all of us, dear fellows, to consider the implementation of the budget and the budget resolution with you, and you know what a huge gap in the country's budget. I'd very much like to know that our commission of inquiry or review committee will be cleared up. You remember how we informed and informed us that the single energy systems each year had $11 billion in turnover. Where did the 11 billion go? Let us begin to understand then so that we can know clearly who is responsible for our country and, among other things, for the kind of traffic that is required for the country today. And the last. Dear colleagues, I propose now, also by concluding the discussion on the issues on the agenda, to vote already as a decision of the Supreme Council to request the President to submit a presentation to the Prime Minister. Why? Because we have a 15-day deadline for the president. After all, we need to deal with enough of this time frame, or perhaps more of it needs not to last for 15 days. Let us now, when we have completed our consideration of these issues, vote on it urgently and make our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Answer the question at the end. From the faction of socialists, who will act? Ivan Sidorovich Boki. Please. I beg you, let's have respect for our colleagues, for those who are in the hall and for those who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Now, literally a few minutes ago in this room there was a great humiliation of man, Ukraine, a great humiliation of the honour of our people. Why? You are well aware that the most sacred rituals in our people’s lives are associated with national shrines, national symbols. You used to cover, you know, goats who died. The National Flag was introduced in 1991 as a symbol of Ukraine’s declaration of independence. And today this flag is covered by the MPs. You see, first of all, this is the humiliation of the Supreme Council itself and the humiliation of the national symbol established by the Constitution of Ukraine, but let's say. Then what does this humiliation mean? It means only one thing is that the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko buried herself in this hall. And if so, then it is a symbolic step. This further humiliation cannot be tolerated both by the Supreme Council and by every national MP in this room. I feel sorry for the people, the decent people, the people with the big biographies, the people with the great credit to the Ukrainian people who are in the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. We know very well that there are both people and science and culture, and if one person demeans them to such a degree that they become puppets in her hands, then you understand for yourselves what their merits would be, but if they do get on this path, then forgive me, that is what they really are. And that's a pity, because people trusted, I think, the best of the best, and I don't want to believe that these people want to humiliate themselves like that. They're just being dragged into this bad game. But I think it would be too much of an honor if we talked about it today. Today we need to talk about specific things about how Ukraine lives, how Ukraine will ensure its future, its present day, and, I think, the Supreme Council will take these funeral processes peacefully, because Ukraine is not buried with you, and Ukraine is being deceived, revived and given to you, I think, by the way, the life that the Ukrainian people deserve. And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u17	Ivan Sidorovich, thank you. As Head of the Supreme Council, I am obliged to defend the authority of our legislative body and to address you with such words. We've heard reports of money rustling around here, walking in rows. That's not true, I don't think we need to argue, convince, or anything like that. But if anything like this occurs, put them here in the rostrum and we will use them to support the poor there, who have sometimes believed the demagogues in the elections and failed to account for what might not be the way we see it. It's different. No statement was received from the MPs from the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and there was no statement. [[I'm answering Peter Simonek's question.]] Let's move on. Regarding the proposal for a Constitutional Court. Mikola Vasilovich spoke here. I'm in favour of forming a Constitutional Court, rather in accordance with the law. I wish we had that in mind. I really join his words about thanking Paul Borisovich Efgrafov, a man who has faithfully worked in the Constitutional Court for the appointed term. Only convinced that all of this must be done on the basis of the law. That's why we're waiting for a proposal from the relevant committee in relation to the procedure for taking an oath and electing the judges of the Constitutional Court. I think this is all going to be taken into account as it should be. There is a legal basis for answering the rules of the Law concerning the taking of an oath. Let's work together here. I would like to announce for consideration the draft Decision on the release of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. [[Registration number 1158]] Klukkowski Yuri Borisovich will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u18	Aleksandre Alexandrovich, really Bogdanovich. I ask my father very much at the age of not renaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u19	Okay, it'll be Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, my fellow Members! As a representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have no right to remain silent because the leader of one of the few important factions in the Supreme Council has allowed himself from the rostrum of the Supreme Council to make offensive remarks to the address of the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In this regard, I would like to remind you that the protection of the honour and dignity of the President of Ukraine provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and the violation of it is described by the Criminal Code as a crime. However, the Constitution of Ukraine, within the framework of parliamentary immunity, does not exempt the Ukrainian national deputy from the responsibility for the insult in the statement made on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to consider those who think they're serving the President of another state, not Ukraine. And now essentially the question that I have to report. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Central Electoral Commission Act, a member of the Central Electoral Commission has the right to vote in the election of Ukrainian national deputies by suspending the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission. This was the opportunity of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, who stopped the Central Electoral Commission from registering as a candidate for the Ukrainian People's Deputies. This was done by the Order of the Central Election Commission. Following the official publication of the results of the election of Ukraine’s national deputies, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević filed a statement to the President of Ukraine that a member of the Central Electoral Commission was to be appointed as Ukraine’s national deputy. On April 21, the President of Ukraine, in accordance with 85 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council an application for discharge as a member of the Central Election Commission, Ruslan Petrovic Knazević, in connection with his election as Ukrainian national deputy. I reported it as a representative of the President. And now, according to the commission of the committee that addressed this issue yesterday, I want to say that the committee has supported this submission and is asking to take the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u21	Please, is there a question for Yuri Bogdanovich? Please. One question, which is why I'm not saying that they should be recorded. Name it that. Ah, Bondik. Please turn on the microphone. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u22	Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich, as a lawyer known in this state, you do not consider a violation of the fact that a person has already been sworn as a national deputy, but a financial and budgetary discipline, i.e. he was in two organs and probably got paid. So I think that this is the conclusion of the committee that the Committee on Local Self-Government has to work on. I'd like to ask you to put the question aside, along with the experts, with the lawyers to work out the committee's conclusions and then just file for the release of Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u23	I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished Mr. Bondik, who knows very well the Central Electoral Commission law, that stopping the powers of a member of the Central Electoral Commission means stopping funding it for all articles of expenditure, including salary. And you know that very well, but with that question, I have another question, as a representative of the president: and will they take the example of Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, other accomplices who are here in the room, and in particular in this faction, who are also good at paying wages, and do they exercise authority in a higher commercial court as authorized by human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u24	Please. Roman. Ruslan Petrovich hasn't received a work plan anywhere in three months, and that's why it's automatically taken off. I'm voting on the draft Decision on the release of KNVK member of Knyazević Ruslan Petrovich. Who's in? Or, more faithfully, vote, I ask you to support this proposal. [[10:34:31]] For-300 For 300 people. Decision taken. The draft law on association is being considered. ratification, draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Alimony Abroad. Reported Deputy Justice Minister Gorbunov Lydia Mikolayevna. Please. Here's the rule: a report on. The time spent 10 minutes seems to be right. Questions, answers, then a co-report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u25	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, the draft Ukrainian law on the accession of Ukraine to the Convention on Alimony Abroad is being submitted to your consideration. The Convention on Alimony Abroad was developed in 1956 as part of a United Nations organization with the aim of establishing an international legal mechanism for the interaction of the competent authorities of the State, to provide support to those in need of maintenance, to receive alimony from persons living abroad. Today, there are 60 nations participating in this convention. Among them are 32 Europeans, the Vatican, and Australia, Mexico, Asia, Africa, and South America. By means of the mechanism provided for by this convention, persons living in Ukraine are, through competent authorities, able to apply for alimony in the territory of the treaty State of the convention. In doing so, the competent authorities of the States concerned should ensure that the applicant's interests are represented in the proceedings and that the decisions taken are properly implemented. In accordance with article 13 of the Convention, any State that is a member of the UN or a specialized body of this organization or a party to the statute of an international court may join the convention. Article 2 of the convention provides that the treaty State appoints one or more judicial or administrative bodies to operate in its territory as a body that transfers and the public or private body that acts in its territory as the body that receives it. To perform the functions of the body that transmits and to the body that receives, Ukraine is invited to place the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The costs that may arise as a result of the application of the provisions of this convention in Ukraine will be borne by the funds provided for in the National Budget of Ukraine for funding, respectively, by the authorities of the State. Joining this convention on alimony abroad does not provide for changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. Getting this convention to work will create additional opportunities for receiving alimony drawn in Ukraine from payers abroad. Through the Ukrainian Convention, Ukraine will join a multilateral mechanism for the cooperation of the competent authorities of States, which greatly simplifies the possibility of bringing an alimony appeal to a foreign court, without requiring additional costs for the applicant, such as travel, services for lawyers. The existence of obligations established by the convention will allow our State to greatly strengthen the protection of the rights and interests of the most vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine by regulating the respective relations with the states in which the persons under the obligation to provide maintenance reside. Dear National Deputies, taking into account the foregoing, please make a decision to join Ukraine in the alimony assembly abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, is there a question for the reporter? It's all clear. No questions asked. Any questions? Then sign up for the questions, please. Let's take five minutes because the report is brief and the point is clear. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u27	Mr. Deputy Minister, please tell me, when a person is working illegally abroad, how can this matter be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. As you can see, this convention regulates the very people who live legally abroad because they are relations at the state level. This is, for example, if our Ukrainian citizen has a retainer abroad, she can go to the Ministry of Justice to help him pull alimony from this citizen of another state who lives abroad. As far as the illegals are concerned, they are citizens of our Ukraine, I understand. They have to pay alimony according to our Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u29	You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u30	I have two questions. The first question is whether we have people in the country who are in the country who are in the country, who are abroad, and what amounts may be involved. And the list, at least, of the major countries where we're going to demand alimony. And the second question. The Scientific and Experimental Authority concludes with a proposal to accept as a basis. I didn't understand that offer. As a law, we're going to adopt a law on ratification, and we're going to put it on the ground, and we're going to look at this law, and then we're going to go through it and make some changes, and it's kind of explained by what's not represented in the original language, and we're going to present it in the original language, and we're going to have to do it in order for an organizational administration to already, or who's submitting these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. In fact, we've been reading the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority, and I think that these laws should be adopted immediately, not on the basis. And with regard to how many citizens we have from other states that need alimony, today the Ministry of Justice is dealing with this issue because it is. international legal aid agreements. And by the first July of this year, the Ministry of Justice had received about 50 applications from Ukrainian citizens asking to withdraw alimony from. who live in countries such as France, Germany, Argentina, Cuba and a number of others. With regard to the calculation, of course, it is impossible to enter such an account, since this is only revealed when Ukrainian citizens or Ukrainian citizens claim alimony.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u33	Okay. Bogasheva of “Our Ukraine”, asking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u34	Natala Bogasheva, “Our Ukraine” Block. Please pass the word to Boris Jakovitch Bespalom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u35	Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Natale, and thank you here, I think, deserve thanks both for the President and Minust, who are submitting this very important document for ratification, indeed. But some clarifications, and right now I want to say that our faction is going to vote for it, which is, in general, there's nothing to delay, because people are waiting. But the question is, really, how many people. First. How many cranes are there in this deal that we're joining? I mean, where our people can get alimony. And the second. Whether it is possible to appeal only to citizens of that country, provided that Poland, the Czech Republic, Australia, or Zanzibar, or to citizens of other countries, such as Ukrainians, Ukrainians, who are in the territory of those countries. And one last question. How many potential people do we have who need such help?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. As I said today, 60 countries have joined the Convention, all European countries, the Vatican, Australia, Mexico, the Asian States, Africa, South America. Of course, as to who the alimony will come from, not only from nationals of other countries but from all other foreigners legally residing in the territory to which they will address it. So this is going to be a wide range of retainers who are obliged to pay alimony. As to how many citizens it can be, we now have 15 civil affairs contracts, bilateral international agreements, which we are constantly working on to achieve alimony. But it's mutual work, and on this side it's also called alimony. And there's also a SND convention that also works in the whole direction, but there are a lot of states that don't cover bilateral agreements. So this convention will expand the ability of our citizens to apply for a simplified order of alimony to those who live in other states. Of course, to this day there are about 70 such references, but this cannot be said to be so constant. This situation is changing and we must protect every citizen of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u38	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, my dear colleagues, I would like to say that this issue has been addressed on our committee. And the committee made a recommendation not generally to approve, but to accept it as a law, that's the first. I also want to say that this thought was unanimous, almost the entire committee was present at the meeting. We pointed out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office indicated that part two of article 193 of the new Supreme Council Rules had not been implemented, according to which the certification of copies of the official texts of Ukraine's multilateral treaties were given to give consent to the duty of the Supreme Council to the original language, together with their official translation of the national language. Here I want to answer the question that's here, that, in fact, the English language didn't come to us and including the committee meeting this bill. I would also like to add that not only the European countries or countries of the other world have joined this convention, but the countries that are still joining the SND -- I call it the Republic of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. I think our deputy minister's report has given us a detailed description of the preference given by this Ukraine. I just want to add that today these are the requirements for countries such as Israel, France, Germany, Argentina, Spain, Austria, Portugal, the United States, Cuba, Algeria. And as a message to the citizens who are listening to our meeting today, what I want to say is that this appeal can be real if the person who works abroad and needs such requirements is legalized there, that is, it's in consular accounting. And as you know, in the Consulate account, we have up to 100,000 people, and in general, more of our citizens are abroad. So this is still a topic that will be a problem when we address it by joining this convention for its execution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u40	Is there a question to Vitali Jakovitch? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? None. A complete question has been raised. That's why I'm putting a bill on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Alimony Abroad as a bill for voting. [[Registration number 0001]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:47:50]] For 293 Decision taken. I thank you for having an active part in this consideration. Questions? From the procedure? Please, Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Acid, faction of the regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, my dear colleagues, I want to make your point: we have every reason to believe that there is an act against the national flag of Ukraine in our eyes. He was abandoned in such a way that they would walk on him. I'm asking you to give me an assignment at the break so he can be neatly folded and handed over to the faction. In addition, I think it would be necessary to assign a commission to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building issues, so that they can be resolved, because the issue of the State symbols of Ukraine concerns their knowledge. You can't play the flag.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-20-m0.u42	Thank you. And that's exactly what I wanted to ask the secretarial staff to put the canvas in the faction of Julia Timoshenko, because obviously the costs of the article were incurred there, and they should report to who's in charge and kept it, because they're going to need it, I think. That's the first one. And secondly, I'm calling the morning session closed, and I'm proposing to everyone, there's going to be committee meetings right now, and consider those issues, particularly those relating to the budget, and at 4:00 a.m., there's going to be a hearing on the budget resolution. [[I made an announcement on this point at the very beginning.]] Go to the evening meeting, and at 16 o'clock everyone should be here. Thank you.
