ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. Please, let's calm down. I beg you all to take your seats. What happened there? What's going on? What's the point? Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down, sit down. Please sit down, dear fellows! You and I have agreed that we will complete this cadence without any misunderstandings, God forbid, conflicts. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you very much, let's demonstrate our tolerance and mutual respect. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:42]] The 402 national deputies of Ukraine registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session of February 8, 2006. 14 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, six laws and three decrees were passed, three bills were adopted on a basis, and four bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! Today we are to hear with you the annual message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council and to the Ukrainian people about the internal and external status of Ukraine. I think it's going to be a few minutes, it's going to take time for us to calm down, to adjust to creative constructive work. Please, is there a problem? Please sign up for five minutes. Write it down for reasons. Here comes the record, dear fellows. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich and distinguished national deputies! 154 The Goschen constituency, Equinox. Today, it is a pleasure that the President has not yet appeared in the Supreme Council. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you once again to pass on the Supreme Council's ruling on the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the violation of the citizens' right to freedom of conscience. This ruling is not being implemented by the President today. Next, provokers like the Head of the Top. The Red Cross district council continues to provoke society in interfaith relations. So I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to remind Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, I will now hand her over to you, please, and he will really speed it up and remove Red from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u3	Thank you. Maria Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u4	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u5	Victor Mironenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u6	The Communist faction, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Each person has the right to his or her position, to reflect it through posters, as you have, with respect to the rights, done. Power cannot be used as soon as it has been done. I ask for tolerance, respect for someone else's position and conduct themselves as Parliamentarians do. Moreover, we are obliged to consider in recent days extremely important bills of economic orientation, social orientation, which, if we are truly people's deputies, we are obliged to consider in recent days. And I would ask those who respect the right not to look orthodoxly: what faction offers but, above all, to think about the bills, based on the interests of the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u7	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u8	Dear People's Deputies, Your Honor, have just issued an anonymous report on Ukraine's internal and external status in 2005, which has long since disappeared. And we're thinking about the future now. And in 2006, much of my own, I would like to get an official explanation from someone: whose report is this? Who is it addressed to? And why is she anonymous?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u9	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u10	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Mrs. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u11	Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs, in turn I also wanted to call for tolerance and responsibility, because in this room there are guests, or directly responsible for certain stages of Ukrainian history. From the 17th to the 91st, we built a bright future, but we ended up with, uh, gift cards, socks, first-hand items and laundry powder. I would like to know: Why are miracles not built in 74 years? Please answer. 14 years with two years: the first and second President and the forces behind them are represented, we built Ukraine, and in 2003 we went to the FAT lists. It was only last Friday that the monitoring was taken off. Please answer: Why did this happen? That is why we will be tolerant and will listen to what we have enjoyed and done together with such a parliament in this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u13	Yes, Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u14	Lukyanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to say two things. First of all, this is addressed to the author of our President's report, why is Ukraine divided into regions and not in the area? The electoral campaign is just beginning, and Ukraine is already being divided into regions, not in the region. I strongly protest against this approach by the authors of this document. The second issue is the problem of the integrity of deputies, including members of local councils. This question is agreed upon on the Conciliation Council, and it has been introduced and introduced into our agenda today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please listen! This document is so important, it applies to all of Ukraine, and it refers to the problem of creating an intact caste. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko strongly opposes this, and that is why we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u15	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you, let's take a moment to discuss the moratorium on speeches, on the replicas that would lead to a confrontation in the hall. At least for today. Do we have a deal? Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, is invited to the floor. We need to solve the question of making an oath. Will the MP be invited immediately? Well, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is a established practice in which we call a national MP and make an oath. I can only inform you once again, my fellow Members, that yesterday we are with you, I apologize, yesterday we have made a proper decision with you to terminate the term of office of the national deputy Vladimir Mikolaiovich Yishtenka, who died suddenly, and you and I have opened the way to resolve the issue of the adoption by the Central Election Commission of the recognition of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy, who is next in the list of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Yesterday an appropriate decision was taken by the Central Electoral Commission, which recognized the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Opłacek Volodymir Mikolaiovich. That is why we should invite him to this rostrum to take the oath of a national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u17	Honourable National Deputies, on February 8, 2006, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Opłacek Volodymira Mikolajovic, for a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Communist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Olatko Volodymir Mikolaiovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday. Wait a minute, please. Yesterday, you and I, more specifically, the Conciliation Council decided unanimously that we will take a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a plenary meeting next Tuesday to consider issues related to Ukraine's energy security and the problems of the development of the agro-industrial complex and to form a special commission, a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for election monitoring. The corresponding decision-making project is given to you. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 14, 2006. Please vote. [[10:15:03]] For 317 The factions, please. Decision taken. Oh, we're the ones who accepted the day-to-day inclusion, aren't we? It was our decision to put it into the agenda. “Regions of Ukraine” – 56, Communists – 53, National Party – 39, “Our Ukraine” – 22, Block Timoshenko – 33, SPU – 27, National Block – 22, SPDU(O) – 19, Ukrainian National Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 12, “One Ukraine” – 5, non-fractional – 8. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree as a decree, registration number 9058. Please vote. [[10:16:02]] For 315 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be done in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we agreed that today we would adopt amendments to the law on the Ukraine Code of Land. What does this have to do with anything? The point is that they are now mass-forming the land pails according to orders. Because it's forbidden to sell these paddies. And it turns out that people are simply buying these paddies for nothing. And we agreed that we would make a decision, according to which all the agreements that were made in this regard are invalid, so that people are not deceived and that we do not destroy our national wealth. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 9059, “To amend the Ukraine Code of Land”. [[on the alienation of land]] Please vote. [[10:17:22]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Since this law was discussed in detail yesterday, there was no objection, so I'm putting it in order for us to now accept it as a law. Please vote. Registration number 9059. Please vote as a matter of law. [[10:18:02]] For 349 The law is passed. Thank you. Assadchev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy Now we've all seen, I think, and the media have recorded this, as a member of the Communist Party was sworn in. And it turns out there's no problem in taking an oath, and there's no need for the Supreme Council to vote, and there's no need to include it in the agenda. Why, then, do we not take the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court, Vladimir Mikhailovich? I think by today's behavior you've personally shown to all of society that it's you who stop swearing to the judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I don't want to reflect, react to these harmless events. But I just understand Valery Mikhailovich, because there will be no more opportunity in the next Parliament to talk about anything. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Calm down, calm down. You called my last name I had the right to answer it. Sit down. Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask you now, because we are working so actively, let's consider a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 9015. Is there no objection? Let's put it to a vote. The report then invites the defence minister Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko to perform his duties. Get ready from the committee. Three minutes, please. First study the Rules and then raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian President-in-Office Act on the approval of the President's decision to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 is a document that is adopted every year and which provides a legal basis, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, for military training in the territory of our country. I'll tell you very briefly, because you've got the papers. An army that does not fight is very difficult to maintain. And the only way is through military training. Ukraine is conducting military training in the territory of other states, and in this part of the decision approved by the President of Ukraine, in accordance with Ukrainian laws, but the Supreme Council grants permission to participate in military training in the territory of our country. This is convenient for Ukraine, because it's about creating combat capabilities for our nation, and it's about fighting capabilities. This is economically advantageous, since in the course of teaching, the lion’s share of the money is borne by representatives of other nations. The main focus of these teachings, each of them is the training of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in humanitarian, search, rescue and other peacekeeping operations. And it's the interaction of these issues that is extremely important to us. This is not about how these fighting capabilities that are being created in Ukraine and Ukraine will be eliminated. Because in each particular case, the Supreme Council takes the decision as the only authority that can grant permission to participate in a peacekeeping operation. I'd like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u23	Sign up for questions, three minutes, please. Anastasiav, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u24	Please pass the word to the deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u25	Please, Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u26	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear reporter! Please answer these questions. First. Overflight over Ukraine and the troops of the United States and Germany should pay Ukraine. To date, as far as we know, Americans make up up to $5 million. Why are arrangements not met? And the second. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refused to use the transport aircraft. In Hungary, however, you stated that Ukraine would provide transport planes for their use by armies of other countries. How can you explain this to the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished people's deputies that the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine has nothing to do with the issues you're asking, it's the subject of regulating other legislative acts. That's what we're talking about using our transport aircraft. Indeed, the Supreme Council did not make a positive decision on the corresponding memorandum from this rostrum. Unfortunately, I didn't. But I would also like to point out that the transportation of Ukraine is carried out by various economic entities. Let's say Antonova's AntC has written and is entitled to it, it's a civilian structure, Antonov's AntC has entered into and is carrying out these transports. I would like to point out that in this case, much wiser is the Russian Federation, which is one of the main competitors, as it were. And it makes tens and hundreds of millions of dollars. These are jobs and this is the rise of the aviation industry of the Russian Federation. But I want to point out that the questions that you've asked, they have the right to exist, but they're not regulated by this bill that's being tabled today. I'm willing to give you more detailed information, if necessary, literally today at the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u28	Please, Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u29	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like the minister to answer a more concise question. And I'd like to give the floor to Bandur to Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u31	Honorable Minister’s Responsibilities! The report, the nameless one I have mentioned, hands-on, anonymous, has a whole chapter on international security and integration of NATO as a key factor in enhancing Ukrainian security, priorities in relations and taking into account public opinion and the population about NATO activities. Are you familiar with this chapter as a minister or is it a know-how for you? Please, because tomorrow I have to answer to my constituents who don't support our NATO drive, they just don't understand our policy on this plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I've seen this document, but I want to remind you once again, Mr. Bandurka, that this is a separate question, it does not apply to the law. I'd like to now, if I could, use more of this time that I've been given to explain the basics of this law. And we can discuss those questions separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u33	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich, please sit down. From the Kuzmuk Committee, Alexander Ivanovich is a National Security and Defence Committee. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u34	High - ranking colleagues, the National Security and Defence Committee, have carefully considered the bill at its meeting. The lessons outlined in the draft law are planned in the President's decree as part of the international cooperation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. That's what I'm talking about. They are divided into three groups, which are conducted within the framework of a partnership for peace, within the framework of tripartite and bilateral cooperation. It brings together all these teachings that they are conducted exclusively on a peaceable subject. The geography of the participants is common, and all the teachings are traditional, and some have been conducted since 1994 and later. Target. The goal is also achieved by the effect of these teachings, we are convinced, and from year to year, we are improving. The economic impact is 600-700 000 euros per year. A professional effect is our participation in peacekeeping operations. The committee voted 7 in favour, 3 in favour, against no. I want to say that for the first time, such training is being carried out practically on new disciplines that are improving. I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? They insist on discussing it. Give me 12 minutes. Sergey Zizko, please. Yuri Carmazin to prepare. Is there a Zizko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u36	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, in accordance with Part Two, paragraph 2, of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the order of admission and the conditions for the presence of the armed forces of other states in Ukraine are laid down exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. In particular, the law is Ukraine's law on the order of admission and the conditions for other States' military forces to be present in Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council six years ago, February 22, 2006. By this law, articles 7 and 8 stipulate that the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the armed forces of other States to enter Ukraine is taken on the basis of a proposal made by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which determines the appropriateness of allowing the forces of other States to be deployed in Ukraine to the national interests and laws of Ukraine, including its international obligations. This decision by the President pursuant to article 85, paragraph 23, of the Constitution is subject to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which deals with the issue of such approval as urgent, extraneous. A proposal for the admission of military forces from other States to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational training, prepared by the Ministry of Defence on the basis of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of Agreements between States Parties taking part in the Partnership for Peace Programme, on the status of their Armed Forces and on the Additional Protocol to this Agreement of 2 March 2000, the Act on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Staff of the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the Staff of the Supreme Commander of the NATO United Forces in Europe, on the provision of support for the NATO operation by Ukraine, from 17 March 2004, and other international agreements. On its basis, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the President of Ukraine a decision on admission to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in joint military training with the Ukrainian military forces in the framework of international military cooperation with the foreign military forces. A complete list of the trainings planned for this year under international programmes, as well as a full list of the military, technical and specialities of foreign military personnel, are listed in the accompanying documents. Thus, the procedure envisaged by law is fully followed. There is no doubt that international training will increase the readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I'd like to make a full offer. So not to discuss, but to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. On approach. Please, Nestor Schufrich. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u38	Nestor Schufric, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Officers of the Cabinet of Ministers! Well, let's finally tell people the truth about what we're voting for today. Today we vote on the so-called move, note the 133rd page of that document that Yushchenko will present to us today, the so-called “road map of Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine”. What does it tell us today? That in April 2005, "an intensified dialogue was launched between Ukraine and NATO on membership issues and responsible reforms, for which the Secretary-General of NATO was handed over an initial discussion paper to the Secretary-General, which provided for the revitalization of consultations by the alliance on channelling the activities of the Ukrainian authorities to prepare for NATO membership". By this document, why does no one say that 90 billion bracelets are provided for the adaptation of Ukraine to NATO? I will speak frankly to the Ukrainian people of NATO and free of charge, and it is not even necessary to pay, and 70 per cent of the citizens say so. The first billion have already been allocated to the 2006 budget, at a time when 920 million bracelets in the 2005 budget have been removed from preparation for the winter heating season. Today, unfortunately, we have consequences, tragedy. Hundreds and hundreds of our citizens died this winter. Tell me, do we have a war? Why should our citizens be killed by frosts? We're being pulled by the ears of NATO. And these six exercises are another step towards moving to NATO for our money. Why is there a $110 price on this road today, and there's some reason why there's no increase in revenue? All right, gas, gas. This, as today's authorities say, will survive. But why is it that today, in January, the price of sugar is 4.5-5 bracelets at a world price of $300 per tonne, that is 1.5 bracelets per kilogram. How the Ukrainians deserved that the prices had risen five to six times. Is today the main thing for the authorities to do is to move to NATO and for our money? I believe that NATO is today building a nuclear waste dump from all over Europe. It's a payment for Maidan. And today we have to stop it. We have no right to mock and endanger the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u39	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u40	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to point out that this ratification is related to a formal reason. Since the training was carried out in the same way, it will be followed. But ratification is necessary to ensure that training is conducted legally. And crying about joining NATO or not joining NATO, unfortunately, there is only one choice, either in NATO or elsewhere. If that's not the other place he called me, I think he was just embarrassed to say it. And that's good. Because a parliamentarian respects Parliament and Parliament as opposed to many government officials. So I think we need to support the ratification of learning, because under any circumstances, there's only an army when it's conducting the training. When training was not done, when the army had previously been used solely to build houses and repair generals ’ apartments, of course the training was unnecessary. Now the Ukrainian army needs training, education, training with highly qualified professionals from other countries, and this usually helps solve the pressing problems that exist in the Ukrainian army today, because not only is there an army, but it is not just the presence or absence of benefits or apartments. These are the things that the state should decide because the saying is old, but it does not cease to be perfect “If the state does not want to feed its army, it will feed the foreign.” And you can say, in parallel, that Ukraine will not join the military bloc, that its neutrality will be the same as it is now, because when learning is done, at least for that, someone is in debt. Someone called the United States a debt, and Russia, having a fleet base in Crimea, turns out we're still blaming her for having these bases here. We owe it to her with lighthouses, territory, property, and everything else. So, you know, when neutrality is understood in a very special and specific way, you have to call things your names, because elections begin and elections end, and the state has to be eternal and permanent, just as eternal and permanent the interests of that state should be. The interests of the State must be protected by the Ukrainian army. In order for her to do so in a qualified way, she needs to be trained. And so I'd like to propose -- less politics, less rocks and more crying about where Ukraine is going to be. Ukraine will still be where it needs to be. It will be a great power, no matter how you want to stop it, that progress will be made by those on the left or those on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u41	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u42	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I call you to the Constitution of Ukraine. If you open the first page, it is in the preamble that this Constitution is adopted under the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act of 24 August 1991, which was approved on December 1, 1991 by popular vote. The act of declaration of independence is based on the 1990 Declaration of State Sovereignty, which states: Ukraine wants to become a nonblock, neutral, nonnuclear state. Why do you violate the Constitution, the Declaration, the Act of Independence of Ukraine and finally the will of the people on December 1, 1991? Any subsequent laws, regulations, acts of the President are not legitimate compared to what is enshrined in the Constitution and the documents that preceded it. Fear God and repent of your wrongdoing. That's the first one. The other one. I'm reading. “The financial costs associated with the preparation and conduct of training are expected to be realized at the expense of the Ministry of Defence for 2001.” This is found in the National Security and Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you no longer have homeless officers? Please tell me you already have an army properly armed? Where are you going? So I think these are the proposals that are contained in the document that is being considered today that are openly treasonous and anti-national. The suitcase, the train station, Brussels, go home!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u43	How many Yuri Petrovich speaks! Please, one minute, Minister of Defense, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I would like us to understand what has been put to the vote today. The issues of sugar, nuclear shelters, NATO are important but separate issues. Now there are people in this room who used to be soldiers, where children are soldiers. I'd like you to understand that if we want an army not to be for the parade, but to be normally armed and able to carry out the tasks that you define and that the President will determine, it should conduct military training. And such laws were passed each year. And when the Head of the Supreme Council was a representative of the Socialist Party, and when the Head of the President's Administration was a representative of the Social Democratic Party, and when the Head of the Government was the leader of the Party of the “Regions” and now. [[united]] I'm sure that both socialists and communists and regions and everyone else who wants the army to be strong in Ukraine, they support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please calm down. We'll vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act on the admission of troops, armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 9015. It's about voting as a whole, like the Law. Please vote. [[10:43:29]] For 215 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 1, People's Party - 30, "Our Ukraine" - 39, Block Timoshenko - 29, SPI - 2, "National Block of Lithuania" - 22, Social Democrats - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 15, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, "Reforms and Orders" - 14, "One Ukraine" - 7, non-fractional - 9. [[United]] Who's to it? Calm down, everything will be resolved in a democratic parliamentary way. Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[10:44:43]] For 215 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 40, People's Party – 22, Block Timoshenko – 34, SPI-0, National Block – 22, Social-Democratic Party – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Orders” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 8, “Afterfraction – 13. [[united]] I ask the Ministry of Defense, a professional committee to work with factions and committees and clarify the point. A draft Decision on the Government of Ukraine is being considered in March 2006 with the agenda “On the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming it”, registration number 8528. Can we vote? We can vote. Now let's see, your honors, what we have in the days of the government. We don't have Government Day on March, so we can vote. I am voting on the Ukraine Government Day in March 2006 with the agenda “On the state of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming it”, registration number 8528. Please vote. [[10:46:48]] For 364 Decision taken. We've got a draft of the Ukrainian Government's Day in March 2006, that's registration number 8643. [[with the daily "To sum up the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2005 and the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of rest and the healing of children in the summer]] Please vote. We'll have two days of government in March, one day of government with two agendas. Vote. [[10:47:44]] For 344 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u46	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to come into the session room. [[Applause]] Yes, dear colleagues, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko of Ukraine, as well as the government in charge of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanur. [[Applause]] Honourable President, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for hearing the President's annual and successive messages on Ukraine's internal and external status. The President of Ukraine has sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine material containing the text of the message you have been handed. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, is invited to address the Ukrainian people. Please welcome the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished community of Ukraine! It is a great privilege for me to be in this room today and have the opportunity to address the national deputies of Ukraine. A year ago, Ukraine opened a new page of its history. At the site of the former Soviet Republic, a state with an uncertain political face and an uncertain future, a politically mature nation has emerged, capable of doing its own historic destiny without any guidance. A year ago, Ukraine was at the heart of the international community. Foreign nations and their leaders watched with interest the events that took place in Ukraine. Our citizens, both in the East and in the West under various flags, have led the world, a nation capable of determining not only its history but also its world. I understand that the assessment of future generations will be weightier, but today accept from me the sincere words of gratitude to all those who, from or outside a political power in Ukraine, helped Ukraine to return to the world democratic process. The new status of the country opens up new development horizons to us, puts new challenges to state-building and demands on our society, on all those who are called upon to do these tasks. You and I are among the great people who have proved their maturity and given us authority. At the same time, we may belong to various branches of government and have different daytime preferences. Although this distinguishes us, it does not make us opposers. We are closely bound by one obligation that we must shoulder before our society and our people. As President of Ukraine, I want to give an assessment of the situation and provide guidance for the further development of society. I propose an order of the day, around which the Ukrainian community, all of us must consolidate our own efforts. So enough fighting, enough work. Today, it is more important than ever to demonstrate the ability to interact and implement the country's strategic development goals, to be able to consolidate. I am convinced that only in this work will we form the perfect and necessary model of the new Ukrainian system of power for the Ukrainian people. I believe that we will finally start a new kind of social dialogue in the state and abandon the shameful practice of political populism. We must rise to the level of national thinking and establish a new status of Ukrainian politics capable of bringing new values to society and defending them in the world. Dear colleagues, I often hear that the Ukrainians today are fashionable and that is not enough, I am convinced. We have to do everything we can to make it more comfortable and interesting so that every Ukrainian can be proud of his homeland. We have opened the world’s eyes to Ukraine, so we can open our own eyes to the world. We have to look at our nation differently, our own problems and our own perspectives. Just as we look at the window before we get properly dressed and get out of our house, we need to understand the processes around us, build our own place among other countries of the world, our own mission. Today's civilization is developing extremely dynamically, and changes often happen faster than we can think about them. To be guided in political practice by the categories and standards of yesterday's day means to dictate your country's historic loss. The transition period of the 1990s is over. Rubikon has passed, the Ukrainian modern nation has taken place and has a real chance of becoming one of the developed countries of the world. What gives me reason to say so? What do we have today? In fact, why is Ukraine today surrounded by such attention from other countries of the world? First. We have proved that in this country human freedom is not just a word but a higher value that unites the nation and determines the philosophy of power, the value that our people are willing to uphold with unwavering will and determination. Recalls the words of the great Bogdan: “There has never been such a good opportunity for everyone in all Ukraine to take advantage of their freedoms.” The other one. We have set an example for other countries of post-Radians in choosing our own path, according to our own national priorities, not under any kind of pressure. Third. The challenge for us, as well as for the entire civilization on the verge of centuries, is that there is not, it turns out, a universal recipe for democracy after years of totalitarianism, many questions need to be answered for the first time in modern history. Ukraine has a leading line of global development of state administration and modern democratic institutions. We can set an example for all progressive humanity in shaping a new democracy. Four. The path to economic prosperity that Europe has gone through in hundreds of years, we must go through in five to seven years, tops in ten. Ukraine can take place as a full - scale nation only if it makes an economic leap. It has to accept this challenge and become a place for new models of economic development, but this is all a problem of political will. Fifth. Ukraine has historically been a cross between cultures, civilizations, and the intersection of important transit, migration, financial, political, integration and other processes. For a long time, this was considered a burden, an additional complexity, and an obstacle to national development. I'm convinced that today is our colossal advantage and a huge unutilized reserve. The foundation that we will build to manage these processes will determine the prospects for sustainable development not only of our state but of the region. A year ago, we were given the task of creating a new political system for society. It's a multi-year process of change, but it's safe to say that 2005 has put a good start on this difficult path. With the help of the people, we have destroyed the foundations of the authoritarian system, we have gained freedom, first of all, freedom of speech and freedom of political choice. The government has become open to control and sensitive to criticism. For us, political competition today is a natural state of society. The state-run system of oligarchic economic control is severely weakened and deprived of state support, a severely disrupted corruption vertical of power, a decrease in the impact on the economy of the most dangerous shadow schemes, such as shadow privatization or compensation, VAT, and so on. The circle of poverty is severely narrowed. Poverty has been virtually destroyed. Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian cultural policy, has ceased to be an ashtray. I'm going to go to just one analysis of individual trends last year. We got a country with signs of economic downturn. Ukraine lived with an oligaronized, extremely energetic, energy-dependent, unbalanced, shadowy and virtually uncompetitive economy that essentially exhausted its resources. The budget deficit, which already amounted to 12 billion dollars, began to deteriorate. In January 2005, GDP growth slowed nearly twice – from 12 to 6.5. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the National Bank’s currency reserves decreased by a quarter. Since April 2004, negative trends have taken place in all sectors of the national industry. The country could be on the verge of poverty and destruction. 2005 was the year of the start of a quality economic reconstruction. We were able to do the most important thing, putting her in the service of every Ukrainian. The economy began to grow largely by expanding domestic consumption, significantly reducing its dependence on unfavourable and highly cyclical raw materials exports. In fact, for the first time in the history of an independent country, we have formed a model of a socially oriented economy and made it work. Only this model has been able to provide record indicators of human well-being. The real income of the population has increased, think about it, dear colleagues, by 20 percent, social standards by more than 30 percent, and child support by 4-12 times. The minimum pension in this country was increased for the first time to a minimum of living. I am convinced that this model will produce results for which our parents, children, and grandchildren will be grateful. We will continue to develop such a socio-economic course. At the same time, I would like to stress in particular that the 2005 high social plan was achieved while maintaining full macroeconomic stability in the market. Despite heavy social pressures, we have calmed macroeconomics, the government budget deficit - 1.8% to GDP - was within the limits of countries with economies in transition. We've endured 10.3% inflation within the average of the last five years. In the second half of the year, it was almost three times lower than in the same period last year, which was 3.7 to 8.4%, respectively. There was a steady increase in the budget. Income came in 54% more than in the previous year. This course continues now. Already in January 2006, the General Fund of the State Budget was implemented by 109 percent and increased by 38 percent compared to January of the previous year. So far, at a moderate rate of growth in domestic gross product and industry, we have received high rates of economic and social efficiency. The reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine have increased by $10 billion or twice. This rate of growth and the volume of foreign exchange reserves in the country has not yet been reached. One of the powerful examples of the new policy was the sale of “Cruvorzystali”, which brought Ukraine $4.8 million, which by 20%, a billion, is sorry that 20% more than the yield from privatization in all previous years combined. There's practically a long overdue debt on VAT, which for many years has been the source of public officials' corruption. The effective steps taken by the new authorities have led to a decrease in the level of Tinnitus. According to international rating agencies, Ukraine has gone from 122 to 107. At the February plenary session of the International Financial Abuse Task Force, FATF, Ukraine has been removed from the blacklist of countries that are not doing enough work to legalize the proceeds of crime. I will fully support this course further. Ukraine began to be respected in the world. This is a prerequisite for defending the national interests of our country. And in this direction, much has been done last year. In particular, as a result of the protection of domestic producers from anti-dumping duties. Stored at $182 million, corresponding agreements and agreements reached with the European Union in the field of textile and steel trade. U.S. trade sanctions have been cancelled, allowing exports to be increased by 23 commodity positions each year by an additional amount of over $60 million. Despite a significant increase in the social component economy, there is a reliable financial basis for further economic growth. The volume of personal deposits has increased, consider 76 percent, and today it is 73 billion dollars. The economy's credit has increased by 62 percent, and the rate of credit growth has doubled. People's credit has increased 2.3 times, nearly 6 percent of the nation's direct external debt has been reduced, or the debt has been reduced by 7 billion dollars. Citizens began to trust the state, to believe in its prospects. Dear colleagues! The year 2005 has made significant changes in Ukraine's perception of the international community, and our country has begun to emerge rapidly from the state of foreign political isolation by opening up new opportunities for itself in the international arena. Ukraine has already been established in the world as an equal subject of international relations, its policies being balanced and predictable. We started building a mutually beneficial and good-neighbourly relationship with our partners. At the same time, it is important to ensure that foreign and domestic politics are complemented in order to achieve the strategic goals of our national policy. Convinced, it is Ukraine that has historically been judged to be the basis of integration processes in the Central Eastern European region, whose stability is important not only for the continent but also for the whole world. Convinced, Ukraine will become a nation that will offer high spiritual values to the world, new patterns of democratic culture, international unity, and interstate dialogue. This is our global project and our mission. [[Applause]] My esteemed colleagues have, in my view, failed in recent years, to understand their own resources and capabilities, to accept wrong goals, to make a superficial self - determination in the world. The situation was that the South and East of Ukraine could no longer exist without Russia, and the West slept and dreamed of Europe. Kiev became the center of the struggle for power. And so it went on until the people came together and decided the fate of our nation. We've changed the logic of processes in the state and in the region. Today, ghosts of the past cannot be allowed to determine our motives and political goals. We have to stop fighting each other for control of the old power machine. We continue to exhaust social trust, drag through the remains of an old torn blanket, instead of weaving a new one. Enough running for yesterday's goals, constantly catching up on someone's development, trying to make someone like you, copy people's -- it's not our way, and it's our way to nowhere. Today, more than ever, it is a matter of implementing our own mission, consolidating the multiethnic nation of Ukraine and shaping a realistic own development strategy. My first priority as President of Ukraine is to see the return of the system of fundamental infrastructure reforms for the creation of Ukraine as a sovereign state, whose life is determined by the European civilised coordinates, and the development is directed from the socio-economic periphery to the centre of the World Society. What do we need to do about it? All of us and everyone, we must step aside from the path of the past, which is holding back the progress of the state. This is to give up exclusively Ukrainian practice in the morning, and to break these arrangements in the evening. [[Applause]] Party fragmentation remains one of the basic political problems of the nation that harms the structure of both parliament and society. To give up provocative extorts in party interests, especially before choosing subjects that divide Ukrainian society even though they do. Whether it is religion, language, or so - called federalization, NATO, and so forth. To abandon the politics of double standards when, for example, there is a one-way view of changes to the Constitution as to the sacred cow, while deliberately ignoring the right of the people under the Constitution to have an effective Constitutional Court. To give up traditional pre-election social populism, the price of which in recent months as a result of adopted laws is one third of the State budget, with no amount of resources being placed under these laws. It is also necessary to go to one large school and learn to unite and form a consolidated position, either in external relations or in the face of threats to economic or political crises. Recent developments have put the day’s demands on the formation and development of the strategic capacity of government first. So in the medium term, I want to set out the direction of a new strategy for the creation and development of a society that will enable every political power, citizen to realize its interests and beliefs. The first direction. It is the formation of a modern system of government capable of working with global processes, identifying and defending social interests. The management system that we have inherited only produces and multiplys crises. We have a conflict between old authoritarian leadership and new living conditions in an independent country. Our system of power can't move for the benefit of citizens, the authorities continue to think of themselves as the only source of decision making. Today, we are adopting a series of important laws, and they are immediately losing their power. As a result, there is organizational infirmity or an old administrative system. Thus, our decisions are often good intentions, as the famous classic put it, that paved the way to hell. I want to draw the attention of the political forces to the fact that authorities are changing their sources today. It's less and less in the walls of power houses. The emphasis is on humanitarian, legal, and political instruments, procedures, reconciliation of interests, and understanding. The government is increasingly moving to where the self-organization of communities is taking place, where new tools of government are being sought. Under such circumstances, a political party that is capable of creating conditions for resolving social problems can quickly become an influential force in the state, not just by serving as a train to parliament. Special attention needs to be paid to situations that are strategically important to the State. Political decisions should be considered in public rather than imposed on politicians by a crisis. We need a new quality of the consultation process in the state. Equally urgent is the need for public debates to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the defence and industrial complex. For public and political consideration in 2006, a basic document will be issued – Ukraine's national security strategy and Ukraine's military security strategy. Only a professional army with a socially protected military officer can be reliable. Since 2010, we have been planning to go completely into contractual form of service while ensuring the innovative development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine and military and technical cooperation. Dear colleagues, I am critical of the model of democracy that has emerged in Ukraine. We have virtually no civilized political space. Convinced: The position of all political forces should be reflected in the political process. It may be that the opposition, the political power behind which the relevant groups of social interests stood, was excluded from the political dialogue and enjoyed only the criticism of another. This task requires a return to the subject of constitutional reform. I feel that it is necessary to express my view of her again. I repeat that the guarantor of the Constitution has not taken or will not take any step towards violating the Constitution as it came into force on 1 January 2006. (O p l s c i) At the same time, I have repeatedly stressed that change. But I emphasize that the changes that have taken effect and are yet to come into effect are only a partial reform of the power system. And it's just a reform at the central level. So I don't think these changes can be called the full political or constitutional reform that our society really needs today. The changes made to the Constitution are already demonstrating a number of problems that you know I wanted to list part of. This is the imbalance in the issue of the resignation of the government in the event of the collapse of the coalition that formed it. What should citizens do if one branch of authority fails to exercise its constitutional authority? Disagreement of the reform of the power system at both central and local levels. The last one is delayed for at least six months. The move towards a proportionate principle of the formation of representative bodies of local councils does not take into account the protection of the interests of local communities and poses a direct threat to the rise of central trends. This thing is obvious. None of the laws that regulate the activities of the authorities that are not adapted to the changes made to the Constitution. Without the adoption of changes to these laws, the authorities will not be able to function properly under new conditions. Convinced, the objectives of political reform should be much deeper; they are not limited to redistribution of powers in the triangle of the President-Parliament-Government. The levelling of political reform just before this redistribution threatens the permanent parliamentary-government crises that we are already witnessing. And the last in this row, but not the most important point in the formation of the modern system of government, is to mark personnel policy, the quality of personnel. The public service ceases to be a place for receiving an administrative rent, but it has not yet become a prestigious profession. We're going to have to allow the public service to take the initiative of a new generation, and that's our main resource to be multiplied. The second strategic direction is to form an intellectually oriented economy. The state and future of the economy determine high-tech enterprises that create new products and services. We all realize that the development of the national economy in market principles is impossible without the active integration of Ukraine into the world's economic systems. Ukraine cannot stand outside the civil and economic processes, with the role and format of the country's participation in international economic co-operation inevitably changing in the context of globalization. We no longer have the right to move in a state of overcrowding, looking back at our competitors. As a result of economic policy in recent years, Ukraine is risking a place in the international distribution of labour that belongs to the world’s world’s world’s world’s low-tech countries. In the process of globalization, it carries the risks of turning the country into an industrial and technological periphery. Integration into the world’s economic space requires increasing the share of innovation products and increasing the volume of high-tech services. Our job is to use our scientific potential to become a level with the developed countries of the world. To do this, we need to invest much more in human resources, improve their qualifications, research and develop new technologies. I want to emphasize that integration into modern regionals. Political and economic alliances can benefit their citizens only if the population is prepared and the country’s human resources are more competitive. In this context, we need to deepen our cooperation in global high-tech projects, including joining the projects under the updated Lisbon Strategy of the European Union. The task of the public authorities is to further expand international cooperation in all directions from humanitarian, scientific and technical to political and defence. Working on the creation of unique Ukrainian goods requires changing the competitive advantages of domestic business and protecting ourselves from unfair competition in world markets. The construction of a modern competitive economy based on human capital and innovation must be in line with the orientations of our international policy. Despite internal problems both in the European Union and in Ukraine, more was done in 2005 than in the history of our independence to deepen Ukraine's relationship with the world and the European community. Ukraine was granted market-economy status, negotiations were launched on visa facilitation, readmission, significant progress had been made in implementing Ukraine-EU's action plan, six important sectoral agreements had been put in place in the areas of security, transport, energy, space, etc. Ukraine’s next steps in the field of European integration have been driven primarily by national interests. This is the creation of a free trade zone with the European Union in 2007, the establishment of a European association agreement in 2008, then, after the Copenhagen criteria for joining the EU have been met, the acquisition of full membership in the European Union. At a bilateral and multilateral level, Ukraine and beyond will use the potential of a strategic partnership with Russia and maintain good mutual relations with other neighbouring countries, to be present where our political, economic or humanitarian interests are. 2005 can be boldly invested in assets and relationships with our partners, such as the United States, Poland, and Romania. I hope that 2006 will mark the adoption of strategically important decisions in relations with these nations. The agenda is to recognise Ukraine as a market economy country under anti-dumping legislation in the United States, to sign the relevant protocol as part of the process of forming Ukraine's membership in the World Trade Organization. Another of our important foreign policy tasks is to establish our state as a regional leader. Ukraine not only shares European values but also promotes them in the region. The fact that this activity is not abstract shows the establishment at the summit on December 2nd in Kiev of a democratic election community as a regional form of securing democracy, security, stability, prosperity in the Balto Black Sea Caspian region. Ukraine's new regional policy is becoming one of the key elements of the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of our nation. Ukraine confirms leadership in GUUAM, and it is increasingly active. Takes advantage of cooperation opportunities in the Black Sea region, particularly within PACES The focus will continue to be on deepening economic cooperation, improving Ukraine's international image, maximizing its potential as a dependable country, transitor of energy resources and partner in ensuring stability and security in the region. We have made considerable progress in settling the Transistravian conflict. Ukraine is also actively involved in the preparation of international legal instruments that form a legal framework, including the Single Economic Space, based on the principles of equivocal and multi-speed integration, taking into account the norms of the Ukrainian Constitution and national interests. The third strategic trend is to improve the quality of life of citizens, to consolidate society and to restore the spiritual values of the nation. Today, Ukraine is launching a national policy aimed at raising the economic, social, and humanitarian standards of life for every citizen. We're already giving special attention to our future -- children. During the next few years, we will take homeless children off the street and create appropriate conditions for them to develop harmoniously in the atmosphere of family comfort. I am convinced that we will witness how uncompressively the stereotypes of past young people will be the basis for the consolidation of society on the principles of international tolerance, cultural plurality and spiritual values. At present, we have a huge gap between living conditions that are caused by differences in incomes of different types of the population. Therefore, the reform of the pay system should become the focus of transformations. To that end, we'll offer incentives to raise wages, to get the wages of hired workers out of the shadows. We're going to introduce a new standard: hourly pay. The key task is to provide state standards and social guarantees for a decent standard of living for every citizen regardless of his or her place of residence. In order to achieve this goal, innovation is needed in sectors that have been on state subsidies for decades. Housing-communal farming is one of the priority areas in the everyday human environment through which it forms its mood, through which citizens appreciate the activities of the management bodies from the Chief of the Board of Directors to the Chief of Government. The latest developments in Alchevsk are confusing us to finally realize that we need a consistent restructuring of the entire housing sector. We need a plan of action that will enable us to organize our driveways, our courtyards, our cities, and our villages. To ensure the reliable operation of heat-, water- and resource-saving systems, and most importantly, we lack market conditions for this sector, which creates a large investment deficit in housing and utilities. A key policy tool for addressing the strategic development of society and the state is and remains the State budget. A number of new steps have been taken in the 2006 budget to indicate changes in the budget process. This is a reduction in taxes, a reduction in rates, an expansion of the tax base, a limitation on the amount of taxes. And that's good. But despite the positive shifts, the current tax system continued to perform only one fiscal function. Other tasks related to stimulating the productivity of entrepreneurial activities, the efficiency of employment, investment, and innovation tended to be unsettled and did not lead to a visible effect. So, first of all, a reduction in tax pressure should be planned in the next year’s budget. We need to unite our social congregations into a single tax. On the order of the tax on the added value and the tax on the income of the enterprises. Tax reform should be a decisive factor in promoting social and economic development, namely, a transparent list of tax incentives, the creation of a single legal field for the activities of economic operators, and the conditions for the further adaptation of Ukrainian tax legislation to European Union legislation. Tax reform must be based on a basic rule: Taxes must be clear, stable, and low, but they must be paid by all. Dear colleagues! Convinced that the consolidation of the Ukrainian society should take place on the basis of spiritual values, this gives the Ukrainian authorities the task of creating organizational and legal foundations for this. John Franco, the 150th anniversary of which we celebrate this year, wrote: “Our goal is to produce from the vast ethnic mass of the Ukrainian people the Ukrainian nation, a purely cultural body capable of cultural and political life.” The spiritual restoration of the nation must be based on its own true history, which must pass through the heart and soul of every citizen, every ethnic community in Ukraine. It must be free of white spots or controversies, but it must be for the inhabitants of Kiev or Donetsk, Lviv or Simferopol. This is the basis for the consolidation of Ukrainian society, the guarantee of a permanent public dialogue to take institutional forms, and the participation of representatives of different communities and diaspora. It will enable consensus to be reached on the most acute and current problems of the country’s development and society. Ukraine has long been a home for many nationalities. There have been peaceful followers of various religious traditions on our earth, and today Ukraine is one of the few post - Soviet nations in which international peace is preserved. This is one of the greatest acquisitions, and we should cherish it. Our duty is to further promote national harmony, prevent conflicts on national or religious grounds. Representatives of each ethnic group should feel better in Ukraine than in their historical homeland. We need to formulate a strategy for working with fellow countrymen living outside Ukraine. I don't see the division of Ukrainians between mine and foreign. There is no such attitude toward their citizens in France or Germany or in other civilized lands. We are all Ukrainians, children of the same land. Our people on all continents are tens of millions. But how Ukraine protects their interests and how they help Ukraine to establish itself in world space. It is important to create a new concept of the integration of the world of Ukraine, its effective implementation, to develop ways and mechanisms to fill it with content. I cannot escape the most sensitive problem of the religious sphere for society, the natural disunity of the Orthodox churches of Ukraine. It is undeniable that there is a need to overcome the existing ones among the greatest Orthodox jurisdictions of contradictions and to establish the only congregational assembly of the Orthodox Orthodox Church. [[Applause]] Of course, its development is seen in the overall context of the development and approval of the national identity of Ukrainians. In view of the strategic significance of this issue, the State is entitled to actively violate it and not interfere with the internal affairs of the church to contribute to its resolution. Language is an important factor in shaping social values. The nation cannot take a decent place among the world’s leading nations unless it cares about its language and its development. The statehood of the Ukrainian language should not only be an important integration factor, but also serve as a powerful factor in the cultural and informational, economic, political security of our state. [[Applause]] The State should have its own transparent public and systemic cultural policy, which should be guided by ensuring the widest possible participation of people and institutions of society in the decision-making process of cultural life. The dissemination and use of cultural products, the creation of conditions for the full satisfaction of the cultural, educational and information needs of the inhabitants of all cities and villages of Ukraine. Ukrainian culture must also perform a powerful representative function, ensuring the integration of Ukraine into the world's cultural space. Because of the better examples of our cultural heritage, the works of modern culture must be recognized by the world. We also need to conduct a civilized dialogue and create appropriate conditions for the return of our people to Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The conditions for the implementation of the marked directions are the concerted work of all branches of government and the formation of a system of interaction with civil society institutions. We need to recognize the new role of citizens in the transformations that we do. The past failures and mistakes of public policy have been linked to the exclusion of people from social and political processes. As a result, not only did the authorities lose their authority and trust but they also lost a huge resource of positive distortions. The partnership should become a new practice of political parties and social organizations. To this end, I see an appropriate introduction of a programming approach in the organization of activities, both in the President's Institute and in the general government. The above - mentioned strategic directions enable national development programmes to become the tasks of national development programmes. National programmes are called upon to actively involve the population in the development of public policy and to ensure that citizens control strategic direction. In the near future, I see a corresponding decree to be implemented by these mechanisms and the law and the institutional field of their implementation. In the final part of my presentation, let me highlight some of the programs that we have already started to implement, or those that have been completed in the near future. The organisation, financing, duration and duration of the project must be governed by laws and be provided with direct budgetary funding. First. The judicial system and law enforcement reform program. In developed democratic countries, the court stands at a level if not above other branches of government. In a civilized society, the rule of law prevails. The same should be true in Ukraine. The main result of these changes is to increase the confidence of citizens in judges and law enforcement agencies. To that end, we need to create the right conditions for the work of judges. We will put an end to the shameful practice of meeting the needs of the judicial system for more than half of the state budget in recent years. At the same time, attention will be given to improving the selection of judicial personnel, increasing the requirements for their training, and working experience. The public will have control over the selection of judges. At the same time, reforms will be carried out in conjunction with the justice of institutions such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the enforcement system, the Notary. At the time of bringing the activities of the law enforcement authorities into European standards, from the strengthening of public control functions. The other one. The Anti-Corruption Programme and the Reformation of the System of Government Authorities. Overcoming corruption in the government system is one of the criteria for assessing the effectiveness of government activities. The program aims to increase transparency of authority at all levels and provides for improvements in the declaration system and property checks, income and level of consumption by senior officials, independent monitoring of the state of corruption. It is important to delineate the political and administrative functions of the executive system, to improve the procedures of the authorities. The exclusion of political positions from the civil service sphere, the establishment of legal mechanisms to protect officials from illegal political influences will be a firm rule. A particular task is to introduce new organizational forms and standards of quality of service, to improve legal protection mechanisms for citizens in relation to the authorities. The development of the administrative justice system will be a subject of particular attention in this area. Third. The National Health Program. The priority is not to treat disease but to prevent it. This includes a shift to family medicine, a shift in emphasis on preventive and health - care methods, early diagnosis, and a healthy lifestyle. When determining the guaranteed level of health care, we need to review the content of basic services for different population categories. The programme provides for the introduction of new financial and management mechanisms to address the problems of social diseases and infectious diseases, as well as the technological modernisation and development of the human resources and research system. The task soon is to take real measures to reduce the number of HIV infections, tuberculosis, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. The “Competitive education” programme. It involves improving access to quality education, including through targeted support for gifted children, children from low-income families. The programme also includes the development of educational institutions in rural areas and small cities, taking into account demographic factors, labour market trends, the prospects for socio-economic development in the region and the call for a modern system of continuous education, lifelong learning in Ukraine. Our task is to rekindle interest in scientific knowledge, to promote the growth of high-class professionals, first of all, in applied sciences. This is possible only if the intellectual resources of the nation are deliberately multiplied. In this regard, the interests of the State and of the individual citizen coincide. For every Ukrainian family, good education is a chance for her child. And an educated man is a chance for the entire nation. So today I'm initiating a target grant mechanism for young scientists. Some attention to science schools involved in forward-looking research, the criteria for the effectiveness of public investment in science will not be the number of candidates and doctors of science, but rather the discovery of a global scale, the innovative ideas commercialized in the world's markets. Rebirth of the Village Program. The agricultural sector needs the attention of the whole society, because the land for the Ukrainians is not as much a tool of production as a spiritual and cultural heritage. The program envisions the creation of a single register of land and property objects, the State Land cadastre, and the issuance of state-owned land rights. Agricultural production is a key issue of pricing. We will be able to overcome the dictates of intermediaries by bringing the trading market system, other market institutions closer to the manufacturer, which will allow the farmer to get a decent price for his production. A particular focus of the program is the creation of decent living conditions in rural areas, the consolidation of resources on the basis of partnership and state, both state and local levels. A separate social package will be provided to secure the village’s youth on the basis of a government contract with VUZ graduates. It's about giving credit to housing and, so-called, lifting at first employment. I will initiate an appropriate support programme, which includes at least 5,000 dollars of state aid for every young specialist who has come to work in the village and intends to stay there. The next step, as part of the program, will be to increase the cost of agricultural production from 15 to 33 in the coming years. This will bring farmers’ wages closer to the average wage in Ukraine. High-tech development programme is the sixth program. Convinced, the recipe for the Ukrainian technological breakthrough in renouncing the wrong idea of an official’s decisive role in the creation of innovation. The function of the state is to create clear and fair rules of the game. That is why I am counting on Parliament's support on this issue. It should be remembered that Ukraine is competing with its neighbors for global investments. An argument about a favourable geographical situation can no longer be convincing to investors. And the thesis on cheap labor should be forgotten at all. It is important to create qualitatively new competitive advantages, developed infrastructure, qualified personnel, effective government management. High-tech manufacturing projects of well-known world companies can be an incentive to raise the technological level of the Ukrainian economy. Yet expensive to our day, and how to money, bureaucratic business initiation procedures, and lengthy customs procedures make Ukraine’s chances of making such investments very scarce. In the near future, the bill that regulates these problems will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. At the same time, a draft decree was prepared to support the initiative of Ukrainian entrepreneurs under the working name “Ukrainian Silicon Valley”. Within the framework of this project, five regions of Ukraine, based on academic institutions and universities, will be established by international technology centres. So we're going to combine scientific discoveries and commercial opportunities. As a result, only at the start of $100 million of private investment in the first years and more than half a thousand new jobs will become a benchmark for the success of the project. The energy efficiency programme for the Ukrainian economy, energy efficiency improvements and diversification of energy supply are key programmes. The mechanisms for its implementation are housing and utility programs based on competition, energy audits in the domestic and manufacturing sectors. We will offer a clear economic mechanism to encourage energy conservation. The success criteria will be to reduce energy consumption by 10% within the next year. We're going to make an effort to re-supply sources of supply and ways of transporting energy to Ukraine. This will accelerate the implementation of international energy projects. Dear National Deputies! I am convinced that these and other strategic programs will become a driving force for national development, bringing together financial and human resources, government, public and business. Our common small and great victories on this path every day will bring us closer to three strategic goals: improving the quality of life of citizens, establishing an effective knowledge economy, and building a just and transparent system of government. I stress that we are united in the future. And finally, I'm convinced, after the partial changes to the Constitution, we're going to embark on a real complex political reform that will be built on these priorities: The first is to ensure the participation of citizens in State administration; the second is to implement mechanisms for the real accountability of all branches of government and public administration before society and its responsibility to citizens; the third is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the system of authority through a balanced distribution of powers and functions between branches of government and authorities. Four. Delegation of authority to local self-government and prevention of concentrated trends, transfer of executive functions and resources to local communities at the same time. Fifth. Overcoming corruption in the authorities, simplifying the mechanisms for providing administrative services to the population, ensuring political, neutrality and social prestige, and professional public service. Six. Adapting the institutions of the political system and society to new social needs, new requirements for political parties, new conditions and incentives for NGOs. I would like to point out that the way these principles are implemented must include the interaction of all branches of government, the full participation of society and the achievement of the elite consensus. The process of introducing a new model of government and improving political institutions should be transparent and perfectly legal. There's no reason to question her legitimacy. That is why I propose such a plan of action for a truly national political reform. Create a constitutional commission from representatives of political forces, the public, non-governmental organizations, local self-government bodies, scientists, experts with the aim of drafting a new Ukrainian Constitution. [[Applause]] Perform a public discussion of the project produced. For this project, a new draft of the Constitution, which was drafted by the Constitutional Commission, should be submitted to the All-Ukrainian referendum. Develop and adopt a series of legislative acts that develop constitutional norms and ensure the effective functioning of the new political model. These are primarily laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and others. As a guarantor of the constitutional rights and freedoms of human beings and citizens, I consider this to be an optimal way of combining the tasks of participation in society and the legitimacy of the entire constitutional process. I am convinced that reaching a consensus on this issue is quite possible. To this end, I stress that the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not initiate a hearing before the Constitutional Court on the issue of Law 2222. At the same time, I would like to reiterate my concern about the absence of an effective Constitutional Court in the State. I am confident that in the coming days, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will ensure that judges elected by the Assembly of Judges and appointed by the President of Ukraine will be sworn in and will choose their portion of the judges. Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude by mentioning the words of Emperor Napoleon, who today like to quote that politics is fate. Apparently, he had his own historical context, motives, and understanding of politics. I would like to point out that it is at our very age that we have decided the fate of our people and the fate of this nation. In the 19th century, when Europe came to the path of the creation of today’s national states, the European idea for the first time was that of a nation that, even now in the era of globalization, determines the political priorities of all who respect themselves, states. We have this view most accurately expressed by Taras Shevchenko, identifying the nation as a community of dead and living and unborn people in Ukraine and not in Ukraine. Think of those words. Each of us has a responsibility at the same time before today, to the electorate who delegated it to power, and to the memory of all past generations who have passed it on to us as an inheritance, and today more than ever before the new unborn generations of Ukrainians, whose future depends directly on how well we are able to respond to the challenges that history has given us. Our Ukrainian Socrates, my favorite philosopher, Gregory Skovoroda, said: “The greatest loss is a waste of time.” And when I hear that some analysts predict that there is no significant change in the country because of the political struggle, I ask myself, do politicians understand the price that pays and pays the society as a whole, and everyone pays for their lives, their well-being, their unfulfilled potential for someone's ambition, their struggle for power. I'd hate to think that once, years later, historians broke their heads: so when was the transition period in Ukraine? When they tried and hesitated about what to do with their independence or when they did not know how to use their restored freedom. And I don't want us to ever, looking into the eyes of our grandchildren, mentioning this period, willing to give up everything to come back here and do things differently. I'm sure we don't share anything today. The state needs a new unifying ideology. It cannot be the struggle for independence or freedom, the struggle against the regime, or any other fight. Actually, it can't be anything to do with the word struggle. Today, we need to climb out of the trenches, lay down our arms, and give each other our hands. Convinced that this year we should lead the country to success, development and prosperity. We need to gather millions of wills and talents into one fist and take another step to meet people. Thank you for your attention and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! A 30 - minute break is announced to reflect on what has been heard. Opening of the meeting at 12 o'clock, 20 minutes. Frg_00586*002*001&lt;12:26: 58&gt;
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our meeting. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'm informing you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Opłacek Vladimir Mikolaiovich, as part of the Ukrainian Communist Party's deputy faction. Traditionally, we begin to consider the question of the selection of judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honorable judges present in this room. The Committee on Legal Policy has considered the candidates for the respective positions of judges and recommends that you be considered for election as judges. In particular, in accordance with Regulation No. 9057, select: to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Kravchenko Olga Alexandrovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Zvarič Igor Stepanović and Lubashevski Viacheslav Polycarpovich, Olendar Igor Jaroslavovich; to the local Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Danilov Malvin Volodymyr and Kuchma Yuri Viktorovich. We've considered the materials on them, there's the submission of appropriate, appropriate qualifications, complaints that would prevent them from being elected. So there's a proposal from the committee to vote in favour of Decree No. 9057.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, no questions? Objection, too. Then I put to the vote draft ruling No. 9057 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis to the Supreme Administrative, Appeals, Lviv Administrative and Local Kharkiv District Administrative, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u54	Vote. [[12:29:51]] For 266 Decision taken. Boiler and Kuchma and other elected judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! The draft decision 9057-1 on the election of judges is under consideration: To the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mamasaw, Ludmila Alexandrovna, Sage Valentine Vasilovna, Polyan Valentina Alexandrovna; The Court of Appeal of Volin district Zdriluk Oksana Igorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Gertsik Rustislav Valeriovich, Ladgin Sergey Mikolaiovich, Parthenyuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, Staroduba Oleg Grigorovovich, Cerkashin Mikolu Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Bondar Vladimir Alexanderovich, Potter Alexander Sergiyyovich; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd district of Korotchenka Volodymyr Vasilovic; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Procik Maria Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Vavrov Igor Zinovovich; There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u56	Vasil Vasilovich, please wait. Note by Andrey the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u57	The narrator, Wavrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u58	Vavrov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u59	To the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Ivah Antonina Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region, Sparrow of Tetjan Volodymyrna, Thunder of Love of Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Amelina Viacheslav Ivanovich, Dibu Vasil Gurievich, Kabanchenko Olen Antonovna, Nemirovska Olen Viljenowna, Štulman Igor Volodymirovich; To the local Eupatoria City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Gorjun's Ludmila Ivanovna and Zachary's Irina Alexandrovna; the local Pervomayan District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Michael Ludmila Alexandrovna; To the local Gorokhiv District Court of Volin County, Adamchuk Galin Mikolayevna; the local Coastal District Court of Zacarpathic District of Balog Ivan Ivanovich; the local Berezan City Court of Kyiv district of Lyalik Roman Mihajlovich; the local Regional Court of Kiev, Jarmolenko Galin Leonidivna; the local Kyewo-Svetoshin district court of Kyiv district of Capichon Olga Mikolayevna; the local Alexandrov district court of the Kyrovograd district of Plaka Sergio Leonidovic; the local Anthracite District Court of Luhansk, Honcharov Ludmila Alexandrovna; the local Preval Regional Court of Luhansk district Simonek Vladimir Ivanovich; the local Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk district of Litvinov Vasil Grigorovič; the local Bousky District Court of the District District of Demyanovske Galija Semenović; the local Ship's District Court of Mikolayeva Davchenko Tetjan Mikolayevna; the local Central District Court of Mikolayeva, Holubkina Alexander Ivanovich; the local Grand-Majil district court of the Odessa District of Ponomarenka Viacheslav Dmitrovic; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Kaplo Aleksija Ivanovich; the local Mirgorod Regional Court of Poltava district of Aloshin Nina Mikolayevna; the local Provincial District Court of Harkova Grishenko Irina Alexiyevna; The local Bologna District Court of Kiev, Valigoru Dmitr Mikolaiovich; the local Svetoshin District Court of Kiev, Krioviaza Andrija Petrovich; and the local Nahimo District Court of Sevastopol, Jezerski Peter Aleksandrovič. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to step down on Judge Alosha Nina Mikolayovna. [[This is the local Mayor's District Court of Poltava]] There were many complaints from the people of Mirgorod, and the committee was unable to verify them. I don't have the right to bring you up to date without a proper examination, so this candidature, if you don't mind, is off-limits. And Drier Andrew has a point, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u60	Yes, Your Honor, so let's do as the law stipulates, vote on the proposed judges with the exclusion of the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Vavre, and then separately and remove Aloshin Nina Mikolayevn. [[Mirgorodski]] Then you get the word. Yes, I'm voting on acceptance as a whole. I repeat, don't vote, it won't help you. After we vote, Rudenko and the Ripper will get the word and you will base your position. Now we're voting with the takeoff. I repeat, Your Honor, you read the laws you're enacting. I'm acting under the Law on the Election of Judges. I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council Order on the election of judges, registration number 9057-1, with the removal of the two judges we talked about. Please vote. [[12:36:00]] For 318 It's been decided. Please, it's the Andrey the Ripper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please. I propose to withdraw from the vote Judge Vavrov Igor Zinovovich, who took part in Ternopolis in blocking accounts and obstructing media activities during the electoral campaign, depriving Ukrainian citizens of their constitutional rights to receive and distribute information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u62	Yes, please, is there a Vavrov? Is it? Step to the microphone, please. Yes, please. What can you say about the charge at your address?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u63	It's the right thing to do. I'm a noble MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u64	Come closer to the microphone, you can't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u65	The case of a national MP was not considered by me, was accepted, and was then referred to one of the Kiev courts for trial. in connection with a change in jurisdiction. My accounts, as far as I can remember, were not blocked either. If there was only a word about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u66	I didn't do property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, Vasil Vasilovich, did the committee have these details to consider the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, yes, we have considered a candidate on the committee. In fact, the judge did not essentially make the decision, but when the application came to his attention, he accepted it, according to our colleague Andrew Dercach, as if he had secured the suit and made the appropriate arrests. Tom, if there is a need to check, the committee is ready to check. But I don't think there's any special claims against the judge. But if you insist, we can do an extra test.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u69	Yes, dear fellows, be careful. We can go two ways. First, put to the vote and we may not get the required number of votes and not make a decision. And take the second path suggested by the head of the profiling committee: postpone consideration of the matter, let the profile committee check again, and then we will be more consciously making decisions and not establishing or establishing a judge. So today we're putting off our consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u70	One week, one week.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u71	No objections? So for one week, next week, we'll be back, sorry not to burn. For two weeks, for the next plenary week. When we have him, we'll come back to that question. Okay, thanks. Please, Rudenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u72	Vasil Vasilovitch, I refer to the judge of the local Regional District Court of Poltav, Aloshina Mikolayovna. You said you got a lot of complaints and you didn't get a chance to look into it. Is this the position of the committee, your personal position? And when will you be ready, if you postpone, to return to the consideration of this candidature and the vote in the hall, please? Because I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, here's how many complaints have been filed. In accordance with the law, we must send them to the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and that the Council of Judges may examine them and give us an answer. Yesterday the committee considered that I was not present at the committee meeting, and considered these complaints without an answer. If you agree without an answer, without examining the complaints, please consider this your right. But as head of the committee, I believe that the people of Mirrod, and there about 15 people, have written a complaint, we should check it out. We will then give a reasonable answer. That's why. There's only one way to approach everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u74	Please, Leonid Vernigora, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u75	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! You know that there are many sanatoriums in the territory of the city of Mirgorod, such as trade sanatoriums. We've had a very big fight in recent years to keep them in the union system, and we've saved them. But the authorities and the bribed are the people who wrote the letters, it's tendingly written, they've been speaking out to distribute the entire resort area under the barrier, like in Desert Water, and this is the only judge who's kept our property and stood up for it. Now we see, that's how the reaction goes. So I'd like you, whether you're checking it out or not, to consider it, and now let's listen to this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u76	Yeah, I think that's an interesting situation. I. Personally, I'm against the judge, you know, I don't have any claim, but there are requirements of the law, and we need to do all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, now. Let's probably do something a little bit more balanced. In two weeks, nothing will change, but fate. They don't deny it. But the fate of a person can now be decided differently than we would like to. I mean, if we don't make a positive decision right now, we're going to do a bad thing. Let the committee check those complaints that have come in accordance with the law. Vasil Vasilovich will tell us that the complaints are unfounded, and you and I will deliberately confirm our choice, for that is the fate of man. So I propose not to listen to the committee’s offer and to make a wise, balanced decision. Rudenko, please, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u78	I believe that Judge Aloshina is worthy of a positive vote today. What's coming is the complaints. Of course, if there is a question on the committee, they could ask the judges from yesterday. There are complaints, from my point of view, not justified. Therefore, Your Honor, I propose to support Judge Aloshina and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear friends, I do not know if Rudenko and others have read these complaints. Hardly. But they say they're not justified at a time when it can only be said by a profiling committee that will check. Let's not joke about the fate of the judge. We're not changing anything. Two weeks later, when we check these cases, we will vote, and I am confident that there will be a positive decision. Is there no objection? Okay. All of them? Don't insist, don't spoil a man's fate. We're about to make a negative decision. You don't have to. All of you, Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u80	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. All of them. But what I'm saying is, we have to have the same approach here. It's a principle, it's a requirement of law, and I have to put it in front of you. Therefore, we may still thank the judges two weeks later for their principles, but the approach will have to be the same. There is no test provided in accordance with the Law on Courtship and the Committee. So assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u81	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. So two weeks from now, we're going back to assigning these judges, and I hope that we have a positive decision with you after the committee is resolved. Let us now welcome those judges whom we have chosen today and wish them no longer to come to the Supreme Council. Good luck. We continue our consideration of our questions. For your part, your colleagues, you will be required to adopt a draft decree for the 2006 parliamentary hearings "Stan and the prospects for the development of youth housing in Ukraine", which is suggested by the profile committee to do so on March 15, 2006. You don't mind if I put it to the vote? I then put to the vote the Order on Parliamentary Hearings "Stand and Prospects for the Development of Youth Housing in Ukraine" in 2006, Bill No. 8269. Please vote. [[12:45:08]] For 259. It's been decided. And we have, honourable colleagues, a bill for parliamentary hearings, "Contemporary state and problems in the area of construction, road exploitation in Ukraine and ways of overcoming them." That's an interesting problem. But there is one thing. It is suggested that the drafters of the bill consider this as early as May 25. I think we're going to do something not entirely logical if we don't speak, and we're going to find another word if we're going to plan the work of the next Parliament. Let's wait. Nowhere will this problem escape from us. In May, Parliament will meet and he will appoint. So there's no objection? I'd like to ask the authors to respond with an understanding. Well. Okay, okay. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. What is the determination? What Government Day? Yes, please don't beat me up. I've got the order, I've got the order of the day. What is your government day? We already accepted the children’s rest, 344 voices. Have a seat, please. On the children's rest, the government's Day of March 2006 decree, with the agenda for the summary of the rest, the healing of children in the summer. The vote is 344 votes. You don't have to sleep if you've been waiting so long for the president, I don't know. That's the point. Please sign the procedure for three minutes. Please, Rodionov, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u82	Radios, Communist faction. Please pass the word Mironenko to Victor Andreevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u83	Mironenko Victoro's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u84	Mironenko. Respectable compatriots, distinguished Chairman. Since early November 2005, the faction of communists and other factions has been insisting on examining extremely important bills 8432, 8431 for the people of Ukraine aimed at the real creation of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan's Single Economic Area through inter-State trade and economic agreements between Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan to prevent trade conflicts, to restore and develop Ukraine's beneficial economic ties, to ensure the growth of the economy, to a significant increase in the standard of living of our people. However, the aim is to ensure that these bills are not considered, including today they are at the end, i.e. they will not be considered. We need to bring these bills before us right now because they are essential to our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u85	Please, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u86	Thank you. May I have a word with Shibko Vitalia Jakovitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u87	Please, Vitalia Šibko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u88	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention and attention to this bill 8683-1. The point is that we must return to the issue of Ukraine's State budget for 2006 on the social protection of children of war and to the proposals proposed by the President. I still think the President was set up here, I apologize for that word, his advisors, they mistrustfully gave him information. And we have to say again to our citizens' consciousness and consciousness what they're talking about and what things are going on there today in our State Budget. So I ask you, first of all, that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u89	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u90	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to support my colleague Mironek Viktor Andrievich in what is now in this chapter, by the way, here's the section of the summary procedure. We need to consider, first of all, these two very important draft regulations: regarding the Supreme Council's application to accelerate the conclusion of agreements between Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus and Kazakhstan in accordance with the Ukrainian Act of 20 April 2004 on the ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement. It's really important. And they don't support and delay the consideration of these important draft regulations by those who don't want to expand our Ukrainian cooperation with other states in the interests of our people. We ask Adam Ivanovich to consider these bills now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, there was an exchange. The point of your suggestions is to speed up, or postpone, the consideration of questions Nos. 8432, No. 8431, is the proposal made by Mironka and Matthew. And Vitaly Shibko suggests that we, in the chapter on overcoming the President's veto, first and foremost consider Bill No. 8683-1 concerning changes to the State Budget, which refers to children of war. He's absolutely right that, in fact, you and I emphasized, we've harmonised the State Budget Act, we've written it out more accurately, and we should accept it. But let us treat you as we do in Parliament. We will now vote on these proposals. I mean, I'm voting to look at the issues that are later in the agenda: 8432 and 8431 as we approach the section “In summary procedure”. Please vote. [[12:52:13]] For 215 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 48, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 0, People's Party – 32, Block Timoshenko – 7, Socialists – 27, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 5, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, People's Movement, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 4, “Afterfractions – 9. [[United]] Who's in favour of going back to voting on this issue, please vote. [[12:53:02]] For 230 Thank you, we're back. Who's in charge of reviewing Bills No. 8432, 8431 now in section “In summary procedure”? Please vote. [[12:53:32]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 57, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 39, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU-29, “National Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 10, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, “Rebirth” – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, “One Ukraine” – 4, “Afterfractions – 10. [[United]] And another proposal that was put forward, Vitaly Šibko, which I support as chairman. Who is it that, when we come to the chapter on questions where it comes from re-examination with the President's proposals, we first consider Bill 8683-1 concerning changes to the State budget on the category of “children of war”, please vote. [[12:54:52]] For 240 Yes, thank you. Copy that. According to factions: "Regions of Ukraine" - 51, Communists - 56, People's Party - 31, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block of Timoshenko - 8, Socialists - 29, "National Block of Lithuania" - 22, Social Democrats - 7, Ukrainian People - 8, "Resurrection" - 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement, "Reforms and Orders" - zero, "One Ukraine" - 3, non-fractional - 11. [[United]] You've already spoken with motive. Wait. Well, let's get to the question, then we'll be motivated. So I'd like you to prepare 8432, 8431, get ready for who the authors are, and from the committee, get ready. And now we're going to look at Nicole, and then we're going to look at your questions. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, registration number 9041. [[on VAT "Nicopolese Ferrospile Plant"]] National MP, Sadowy Mikola Illich. Prepare Budjigan Philip Pilipovich. There's no Sadov? Yes, please, who. Now, now, wait, I'll see who the authors are. There's only one author here: Garden. So please, from the Budzigan Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u92	Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, submitted by the national deputy Sadov. [[on the VAT "Nicopolian Ferrospile Plant"]] The bill proposes to include in the list of property rights objects that are not subject to the privatisation of shares owned by the State in the statute fund of the VAT "Nicopolese Ferrospion Plant". [[This is Appendix 1 to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the project can be based on the fact that it will help to remove social tension, both in this enterprise and in principle as in Ukraine. The committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Listing Non-privatisation of Property Rights Objects”, registration number 9041, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and in the case provided for in article 6.5. [[on the VAT "Nicopolian Ferrospile Plant"]] 5 The Supreme Council regulations, if there is the goodwill of the deputies, will be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, here we have a similar decree regarding this plant, and I propose to hear a statement about the ruling -- now, Philip Philipovich, because he is the author. One of the authors of the decision -- and then we'll talk about it in general, because it's the same problem, and we'll vote separately. Please make an urgent decision on the settlement of the situation around VAT, the Nicopoli Ferrospoline Plant, registration number 9042. Please, this is Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u94	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury of Carmazin. ” Honourable National Deputies, National Deputy Sadowy, National Deputy Carmazin, ruled in the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 9042 on urgent measures to resolve the situation around VAT "The Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Plant". This decision was forced by the fact that the representatives of this labour force, you remember, were here under the Supreme Council in the most bitter frost, under the Cabinet of Ministers, under the Office of the President, and they all went out, and they all promised to figure out, see what was going on around this situation, around this plant. Repeated statements about the intent to sell the Nikopolska Ferrospion plant stock control package under the same scheme as Crevyzstal with auction elements - who will pay more - point to some of us thinking. Should we again tread on the same rakes that have already taken place? Now our commissions, the commissions of the Supreme Council are considering: what is being done with the problems of implementation, or with the failure to fulfil the responsibilities assumed by the investor in the ‘Criminal’? What does it turn out to be? They are already refusing to purchase domestic coal, domestic coke, already refusing to lower prices, and prices for production are rising. And they're refusing the services of our subterranean Ukrainian organizations. If that is the problem, and there is 56,000 working groups in the ‘Cruvoristal’ of Ukrainian citizens, which we are thus throwing into ransom because we understand that the state has no weights to protect the interests. To break the deal we paid for, we got 24 billion, we can't. Because then we have to get the money back, but we don't have the money. And everyone understands that the situation can be a dead end. Taking this into account and seeing that there might be a similar situation with the “Nicopolian Ferrosphrine Plant”, I want to remind you that 11 metallurgical plants have melted 38 million tons of steel and spent 200,000 tons of their own ferrosphate. 44% is the Stahanovsky and Zaporezian Ferrospion plant, and 56 percent are the ferrospile plant. I mean, Nicopolski is the biggest. If it's bought in the same scheme, we're going to get what we don't have is raw materials for our metallurgical enterprises. It is therefore proposed to introduce a moratorium on the privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statute fund of the NFG.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat. Please, the opinion of the profile committee, then we will discuss both bills together.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u96	The committee carefully considered the proposal made by the people’s deputies of Sadov and Karmazin. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to resolve the situation around the VAT "Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant", and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The draft regulation proposes to introduce a moratorium on the privatisation of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrospoline Plant” before the decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decision of the management of these shares during the period of operation of the said moratorium. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Yes, dear fellows, shall we discuss it? No, it's not. Some. Vote? No one insists on discussing it? There's no such thing. Then, Your Honor, with your permission, I'm voting on the draft Amendment Act. Yes, please, Ministry of Economics, please. Maxutta. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, in voting on this law, we should consider that such proposals under the law on privatization of state property should be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's a condition that can't be met. And so far the process of handing over shares has not been completed. I ask you to consider this and perhaps abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm looking at this, this is where Ivan Stepanovich, who said the winged phrase, "The Supreme Council can do anything." That's why I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized with regard to the VAT "Nicopolese Ferrospion Plant". Registration number 9041. Please vote. [[13:04:51]] For 284 I propose to the adoption committee as a whole the Act amending the Law of Ukraine "On the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" on VAT "The Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant". Please vote. [[13:05:22]] For 287 Thank you, the law has been passed. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 57, Communists – 55, People's Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 19, Block of Timoshenko – 0, Socialists – 29, National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 11, “Rebirth” – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, National Movement – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 12, “One Ukraine” – 0, non-fractional – 17. [[United]] I am voting on the adoption of a general decision on urgent measures to address the situation around the VAT "Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant". Registration number 9042. Please vote. [[13:06:28]] For 289 Thank you. It's been decided. The factions? Well, please, it's pretty clear that it's the same. "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 54, People's Party - 35, "Our Ukraine" - 23, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 29, National Block of Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 16, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, "Rebirth" - 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 11, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 17. [[United]] As we have voted with you 235 votes, we are now in favour of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for first-line inter-State agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan with regard to third countries, for the formation of a single economic space, registration number 8431. People's MP Mironenko. Get ready for Player. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm sorry. Adam Ivanovich, I beg your pardon, first 8432, there was a breach of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u100	Please, 8432 first. Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To accelerate the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan pursuant to the Ukraine Act of 20.04. 2004 "The ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement." Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u101	Commie faction, Crimea, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots, given that the creation of Ukraine's Single Economic Area, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia entails economic growth, an increase in the standard of living of our people, a stable supply of energy resources at affordable prices to Ukraine, a stable export of domestic products filling the budget and local budgets, we insist on the adoption of Decree No. 8432 on the need to accelerate the conclusion of inter-State agreements for the establishment of the EP. As President Yushchenko, the Government of Timoshenko, Ehanurov negotiated on gas, we know. The results of their joint activities are known. Negotiations are also under way to establish an EP. Without the real creation of the EP, without concluding the necessary regulatory agreements, they are legally creating trade, economic conflicts, conflicts between brotherly peoples, and they are engendering Ukraine's pressure on NATO, which is contrary to the interests of the peoples of Ukraine. By losing traditional markets in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, they speak of the need to find new markets for the sale of Ukrainian goods, energy markets. While it is reasonable not to lose, but to preserve and develop existing markets, creating a single economic space, which requires the adoption of Regulation No. 8432. However, none of the 92-year agreements had been concluded during the negotiation period. Our rulers are only trying to reach the elections and then to abandon the EP, thereby causing enormous damage to both the domestic economy and the realization of our citizens'rights and freedoms. For the establishment of the EPP is intended not only to ensure economic growth but also to significantly increase the standard of living of the people, the free movement of our citizens across the border, the resolution of employment problems, social protection, the pension guarantees of our citizens working in Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. A thousand excuses can be found for refusing to sign the agreement, but I think everyone will agree that it cannot be called normal when no agreement has been concluded of the 92-year agreements. In view of this, and in view of the need to develop Ukraine's beneficial economic, trade relations, we call for support for Decree 8432, on the need to accelerate the conclusion of agreements for the real creation of Ukraine's single economic space, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. This is necessary for the people of Ukraine, and we are convinced that every national MP who is indeed a people's MP thinking about the interests of the people of Ukraine, the economy of Ukraine, will support this draft regulation, which does not necessarily mean anything but the development of economic ties, the growth of production, the rise in the standard of living of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat. The committees and committees of foreign, international, and the committee of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko supported the draft statement at their meetings. As you can see, it's absolutely, as they say, a normal statement that goes into a meeting so that we can implement the Law that we ratified. Shall we discuss it? Let me see. Yes, please, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Carmazine, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin Block. Honorable National MPs. Today much is said about what we need, whether we need to make interstate agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan and other countries in order to form a single economic space. And about the Supreme Council's statements on speeding up the conclusion of agreements between Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, Kazakhstan, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. Dear friends. First of all, I think we need to take this matter very seriously and not politicize it. The text of the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed to whom? To the government. So we're talking to a subordinate structure, I'm stressing the Constitution, and that's what we're looking at here today without the government itself. It's normal, isn't it? And what is this reference, what is the legal nature of the document that we are now proposing to accept. The Supreme Council adopts decrees, acts, laws, and so on, an application to its government for interstate agreements that have a bearing. So they put in 4 agreements in January on gas, where they broke the laws that we ratified. This must have been the first stage of the oral appeal that was sent. I think, in principle, that the appeal may be to the parliaments of other countries, as we have said before. Let us address the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, where we ask the question: “People, you are talking about that we are neighbors, that we are close relatives, let us work together and between our governments under control. Then let's really start a brotherly relationship, not a gas-bomb killing, because we can also start a war with taps, and now we're going through all this gas that's going. And we reject such problems.” Let us prepare an appeal to the governments of these countries. And to address my Cabinet of Ministers, I don't think it's very serious, I think it needs to be reworked and done with a reference to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u104	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliovich, you're right for the last time, and for what you said we have no right to accept, we're making a statement. Everything is in accordance with the Constitution. Please, Andrew School. Prepare Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u105	The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to ask, first of all, what kind of committee did this decision, which is the conclusion of the committee of profile, because we didn't hear it. This is also interesting, of course, because it seems to me that this kind of Parliament is somehow getting involved in a bill that has to somehow sow dissension in Parliament itself. As far as I'm concerned, this is what it looks like. And in order to demonstrate once again that there are polar points of view in Parliament, that Parliament is not the body that can work constructively. And I don't think that's the best way to demonstrate political sympathy or antipathy. And I emphasize that this bill, it carries and only has the only pre-election character. It has nothing to do with the foreign policy of the country; it has nothing to do with the improvement of life within Ukraine. This is a law that clearly favours those political powers that advocate the abolition of Ukrainian independence, the abolition of Ukrainian statehood, the elimination of the institutions of power, in order to feel clearly and comfortably or uncomfortable in the new economic space. And I wanted each speaker to confirm that, because you can sing songs about the big, unbroken Soviet Union, but you have to say, go, and live there, because I'm living there myself. And those who want to live there can return by emigrating, for example, to North Korea. You'll feel it's cool and quality to realize the acquisition of communism by confronting Kimersen or Kim Chan Ira. So I would like to point out that this bill, it clearly disposes of representatives of the political forces. And when you look at the results of the vote, the distinguished radio audience and the television audience, you have to see that whoever voted in favour of this bill, he voted against Ukraine's independence, he voted against economic sovereignty, he voted against Ukraine's statehood. So when I hear voices of approval from the hall, I would like to point out that before the elections it is not worth using Parliament as a means of implementing political projects. It's ineffective, because. Ineffectively, I'm going to stress again. And to show the power of voice is worth it elsewhere. So I'm asking you not to interrupt, and I conclude that we will not vote for this, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u106	Nestor Schuffrich. Get ready for Michael Schulsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Of course, it sounds funny today that we're supposedly losing our independence. I have a question. Why did the United States of America and Mexico not lose their independence by creating a free trade zone? Why is a free trade zone established within the European Union today, and France has not ceased to be France, Germany has not ceased to be Germany, Spain has not ceased to be Spain? And why are Brussels and Washington today not recommending that we move towards the creation, first and foremost, of free trade zones and a single customs tariff zone with countries with which we have historically and economically intertwined our national economies and production? Today we have witnessed a talk by a “fianctor” who tried to introduce us to a fairy tale that he no longer believes in. But he lied or lied to him when he was being prepared for the figures for the report, namely, Yushchenko said today that the GDP growth rate had dropped by two times last year. There is no need to deceive the Ukrainian people, no matter what language they think. Today, the real decline in production is five times, and in January 2006, for the first time in five years, we have a decline not only in production but also in production by 2.5 per cent. What did we get today on the road to the EU? Clearly, meat prices had to be raised because Tarasyuk, the manager of the Tarasyuk case, is the owner of our fish. Yes Our Ryba, please, for Our Ukraine. At a price of 15 greven per kilogram. And give us back, please, the price of chicken meat for 8 bracelets. It is clear that if the sugar prices were 4.5 bracelets last year, starting with June of the month, this year has been effective since January. What, the "chocolate rabbit" is not enough for a cottage in Conche-Zap? And the entire Ukrainian people will be overthrown? I understand that in the last "orange" month, you have to tear down everything you can. But why should the Ukrainian people pay for it? Today's a great day. A story that Yushchenko did not believe in, we saw uncertainty, fear for our political future. I'm sure there's no future. And today in the referendum, I am sure the people of Ukraine will say that where better he and the countries with which we worked together, we won wars, including Napoleon in 1812-14 years, than those who are today pushing us into poverty and driving us through nuclear waste. Today we must support this statement and put an end to these speculations. Our faction, as I am sure, will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u108	Yes, dear fellows. Nestor Ivanovich, only the war was in 812, the 14th little bit of another war is already in effect, a little bit of another war is already in effect. Please, Mikola Shulga, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this statement that we are discussing today is very important, regardless of its form of statement. And what's been said here is that, no matter what the pre-election character is, in fact, it's not a pre-election character, and this statement is related to the strategic choice of Ukraine, to its perspective in the coming years and to a broader perspective. The fact is that we can speak very often, and when real work begins, it turns out that everything is going wrong. Applications for integration into Europe, well, nice words. But let's look at the real state of the economy. Well, let's not forget that we have an internal gross product, even compared to the 1990s, that it fell to 40% only. With this level of productivity, with this technology, and this innovation that hasn't happened in the last 15 years, well, who's waiting for us in the Western market? And at this time we can still compete, and we can also present our products to the east, to countries that are united in the EP. Well, how about not taking advantage of that opportunity? Yeah, they don't accept as much as we say we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good. And here we're losing markets. What are we going to have in two or three years from the economy? That's something to think about. That is why I believe that we should support such a statement, and the application should follow concrete steps, pragmatic steps. And there is no need to be attached to this by various ideologists. If we are in a situation where we are, pragmatism must come first. If there are pragmatists here, they will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u110	Yes, please, the Black man insists on motive. One minute. One minute. Nigga's in.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! The decision must be made with knowledge of the matter. What is “the only economic space”? The only economic space is, firstly, a free trade zone, secondly, it's the only customs union, thirdly, it's a national regulator, and fourthly, it's the only currency. In this regard, if we support the only one. A customs union, Ukraine's customs borders will be passed along the Pacific, along the border of China, Mongolia. Moreover, the country cannot join two customs unions at the same time. I'm not saying whether or not I should. I'm saying let's define. If we're going one way, let's go the other way. So we can't move in at the same time. And let's not stretch in the spaghetti. Now, the question of a free trade zone with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan is correct. This is totally worthy of support. And let's be correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u112	And that's exactly what the statement says. Please, Dragnibok, Assadchev. Dear colleagues, one minute at a time for reasons of vote. Don't argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u113	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, in no way do we have the right to adopt similar laws and regulations today. Actually, that's what we've talked about before. With Russia, especially today, when it aggressively treats Ukraine, it is not possible to say so. Russia can't let a finger suck, because it'll bite its arm off. Is that not understandable? Consider Tuzla, a Russian landing in Crimea, the eternal armies of Russian chauvinist politicians Luzkov, Slzka, Girinowski. Is this where good neighbourly relations come in? What about the sugar crisis? And even the same gas crisis in May, and now the current gas crisis that was actually created by the Russian Federation about Ukraine. If we are to have a good neighborly relationship with them, we need to speak from a strong, not a weak one. Today, Ukraine is acting like a weak - spirited state, standing on its hind legs both in front of Moscow and in front of Warsaw and in front of other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u114	Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u115	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy You know, my friends, after the beautiful Consolidated Report by the President of Ukraine, this political void that we hear today in the Supreme Council is very clear to our voters who are who in this country. But I would just like to say, Your Honor, you know very well that when you create your Communist EP, you should know that you are eliminating yourself. Because you're shutting down the Supreme Council. The decision will be made by the so - called national authority that will sit there in the Kremlin. And if you think you're going to be released to the Kremlin, you're very wrong. No one's gonna let you go any further, Mr. Mikhailowski. So I'm making a constructive proposal on behalf of the faction. As a result of your EPU, today we have a huge problem with agriculture. Let's give the government a mandate to date our agriculture in connection with milk prices, that's 200 million. And this will be very useful for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u116	Yes, all right, dear fellows. Huh? Marchenko, please note, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u117	Good afternoon. Marchenko Alexander. One of the deputies in front of me said that Ukraine should have a goal where it should go. In my opinion, for Ukraine, neither the European Union nor the EP is the target. In my opinion, Ukraine's goal is the mother of a powerful independent state. If we look at the policy taken by the security assurances of Russia and the United States and Europe, we can see Tuzla and the gas crisis there, and we can see when the United States made us not accept the economic agreement with Iran. And we see that only when Ukraine is able to have a strong position can we move toward our goal. A strategic error, in my opinion, is Ukraine's refusal to nuclear weapons. So I think I passed a bill that last week on denunciation of this disgraceful agreement, on denunciation. And, in my opinion, Ukraine should have a strong one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u118	Yes, dear colleagues, calm down, the discussion is over. The discussion is over, we'll vote. Before voting, literally two moments. The first thing I said was, I probably didn't hear it because I said there was a decision of two committees and a committee in foreign affairs, and the Committee on Economic Policy that supports this statement is in your document. First. The other one. Dear colleagues, just so there's no unnecessary speculation, it'll take one minute. I'll read what this statement is about. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space in 20.04.2004. The implementation of this law requires the adoption of more than 90 agreements between Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan to provide. First. Free movement across borders of people, goods, capitals, services. The other one. Increasing the standard of living of the population. A year and a half have passed since the adoption of the law, but no agreement has been made to implement it. Taking into account that delay in the formation of a single economic space does not contribute to the national interests of Ukraine, that the formation of a single economic space will contribute to the development of external economic, external trade relations, the strengthening of export potential, the raising of the standard of living of our people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses the need to accelerate the conclusion of agreements in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of an Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. Here's the whole policy. I'm taking into account how I read, because this is a bit of an editorial correction, and I'm voting for a decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:32:45]] For 212 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 51, Communists - 56, People's Party - 20, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 29, People's Block Lithuania - 22, SDPU (o) - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 3, Industrial Party of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 1. Who's in charge of coming back? Please vote. [[13:33:35]] For 206 Not accepted. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 53, Communists - 56, People's Party - 14, Our Ukraine - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 28, National Block of Lithuania - 21, Social Democrats - 19, Ukrainian People's Republic - 0, Rebirth - 6, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement, Reforms and Orders, “only Ukraine” - zero, non-fractional - 9. Not accepted. There is a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for first-line inter-State agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan with regard to third countries, to form a single economic space. Registration No. 8431. Please, Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u119	The Ukrainian Communist faction, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots, with a view to an extremely necessary economy, to the people of Ukraine, regulation No. 8431, are the priority to conclude the 26 basic inter-State agreements identified in the negotiations, which will form the basis of Ukraine's single economic space, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. Which will ensure the restoration of Ukraine's beneficial economic ties. A significant economic growth, a significant increase in the standard of living of the people. The United States, and not Ukraine, of the forces, who are now temporarily ruling, are avoiding the real creation of a single economic space. What legally creates a gas, gas, meat-milk crisis and other difficult crises for the people. They hide that their ministers do not negotiate at the inter-State level, the attitude of the 26 core EPP agreements that determine the customs position against third countries, although without these agreements there will be no single economic space. What, is power lying? We see a lie! I will only bring three facts to show that there is a real threat to Ukraine to remain outside the EP. We will not be able to get the benefits that our economy needs from the EP. Fact number one. In order to establish an EPP, it is necessary to conclude an agreement on the adoption of uniform rules for determining the origin of goods in order to reduce the number of tax evasions, customs duties, in order to fill the budgets of our countries in order to prevent imports from third countries of health-threatening foodstuffs. However, our rulers are not going to conclude this much-needed agreement, which leads to trade conflicts, including meat-milk ones. Second fact. Refusal to enter into a single transit agreement, although we, as the transit Power, are in urgent need. Fact three. Avoiding the conclusion of an agreement establishing a commission on trade and tariffs. While there cannot be an EP without a regulator to deal with trade and tariff issues. Because some body has to deal with these problems. Words of a violation of sovereignty can be seen as ridiculous in their strange logic of implementing the decisions of The Hague, Stockholm courts and other Western authorities, joining NATO, increasing dependence on the United States does not violate sovereignty. The commission, which is necessary to deal with trade issues in a normal manner, is in breach of tariffs. That's ridiculous. Respectable compatriots! Unfortunately, this position of U.S.-dependent puppet politicians is causing economic and social distress. For the real creation of the EP, we call for a substantial improvement in the lives of the people. Thank you. Show me you're people's deputies, please, and the people will see who's in favor and who's in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. People who want to fight a lot, even though everyone says they won't do it. Please, Karmazin. Next Sergey Shevchuk. Four will come out, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jury Carmazin Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to talk to you first. We're discussing drafts, and we never think in our lives that you can use a chair to pry. So the national MPs, they don't have to think badly about them either, they have the right to speak about the projects that are being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just returned from the Vinnitsky region, from the Cherniewsky region, and I would like to ask the authors, could we add and further elaborate only a reference not to my government, I emphasize, but not to my government, to stop the process of the destructive process of the Ukrainian village, which was launched today by our neighbours? Do you know what the value of milk is now? This is cold when you have to watch those cows. Up to 60 copies fall from 50 bracelets. Your Honor, I don't mean a national MP. I mean the frost, which was 25, 27, 29 degrees. So it's no use to you. I see you're in a good mood, Your Honor, I'm very pleased. But in fact, I want to address a very serious subject. The point is that today humans are forced to destroy the head of a large cattle. And it's because they're so protected by the Ukrainian Parliament that the Ukrainian Parliament has allowed it to spit on itself and is not now addressing the State Duma of the Russian Federation to stop the destruction of the Ukrainian village. We'll reorient. But I'm talking to a government that doesn't exist right now: you need to start buying for the Reserve of everything that makes animals. Buy now. Save the village now! You have the money for that. So, Your Honor, what you're suggesting to your own government is that they speed up the negotiation process, it's not just up to it. The process is a matter of mutual concern. And that's where you have to have love on the other side. Can't you see that no matter how much you get off your pants, there's no love on that side. I want us to be loved, too. But this right must also be chosen. Let us choose this right, and then we will be loved as a strong state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I confirm that Yuri Anatoliovich was not a pianist. Please, Sergey Shevchuk. Get ready, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich! You are presiding today, and you allow our meeting to turn into a parody of legislative activity. Most likely, it's a rally on a specific subject organized by left-wing forces. The U.S.R. rally and the O's parentheses are updated by the USSR, which is now called for. It's a parody of a communist idea in general, because it has positive qualities. But in this case, you are talking about a union with a state that deliberately does everything through special operations that are harmful to our nation, that is, no friendly relationship is a useful collaboration. If so, the subject of cheap sausage is such a valid argument for Communists, and the example Carmazin spoke of: It costs meat and milk, and it costs things that people understand that are still prone to the Communist idea. This is actually the agony of the KPU faction, today we are witnessing this, because in the next Parliament, the number of these flags is going to be much smaller, only in a small part of the Ukrainian Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u124	Let's take the subject of statements and the law. Then you'll talk about the Communists in the "Variable".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u125	I want to remind you by subject. Even when Parliament had considered this issue a while earlier, the first President of our state, Leonid Kravchuk, the new state, had not voted in favour of laws relating to the EP. And it's a shame that his factionists today are so passionate about this idea. Today the President, the acting president of our country, delivered a message in this room. It can be judged differently, but it was the only true one -- it is the forward-looking direction of our nation's movement to Europe, not to Europe. Ukraine has always historically been in this, within the continent, Ukraine has always been a European state in terms of civilization. It was temporarily isolated for 70 years, during a period of totalitarianism. But thank God that this period has come to an end. So it's clear that the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko will not participate in this parody, will not vote. I call upon all conscious members of the people: there are only 1.5 months left until the end of your cadence, do not spoil your previous legislative path by making the wrong decision at the end of this cadence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u126	Yes, please, Sergey's next City Hall. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u127	Sergey Ratushniak, Carpathian. Dear radio listeners, honourable MPs, I just want to remind you that the economy is the science of e how to survive, the science of survival. Politics is the science of how to survive better. In modern times, we have faced a situation where some groups, like fearsome and oligarchic experimented, robbed, replaced ourselves with other groups, which led to the increase in basic goods: meat, milk, sugar, gasoline, electricity, utilities, transportation, twice as many as three. Today we have a shameful practice, virtually turning the country into a branch of some commercial structure. Now I'm just suggesting constructive, constructive. I think the whole of Ukraine will agree to share economic zones not only with Russia, with Europe, with America, with China. The area in which capital, goods and labour are freely exchanged certainly has a positive impact on all participants in the process. I have two suggestions today. First, in order to balance the situation in our State, the Government must lead Semen Mogilevich, for whom the city of Kiev is its own. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of TEC must become Peter Yushchenko, because they have the energy base of the entire economy of Ukraine. That's much better. Much better than today's country's accession to Russia and Belarus is joining Buryatia with the accounts of the country's plums from the economy in Dubai and the Swiss banks. I therefore call on the representatives of the pro-President factions to support the proposal of non-scrupulousness to Buratia with the calculation of plums from the economy of Ukraine in Dubai and Switzerland. Better off in Belarus than with Stormia. As for EEP and free economic zones and spaces, Chinese free. With China, with Europe, with America, and more, with Russia. We're destined to do that. As for national authorities, I will never vote for it. I was born here in Ukraine, and I want to die in Ukraine, and there will be a yellow and blue flag here in a thousand years and there will be no other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u128	Yes, my fellow Members, I call for parliamentary statements. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, dear compatriots! The results of the debate on Bills 8432 and 8431, submitted by members of the Communist factions, Victor Andreevich Mironenko, show that the patriots of our Fatherland, the thousands-year-old Kiev Russia, are under attack, but have not yet had a majority vote in the Council. Gazawat, an artificially hostile gas war between Russia and Ukraine, has borne witness to the folly and, more importantly, the danger to Ukraine's energy security, the mindless and mindless drift of Russia of Kiev from its thousands of years of civilisation in the Orthodox-Slavian civilization towards Europe is not always friendly to us. Remember the famous Drang nach Osten, starting with the Napoleonic Crusades and the Führer's marches, and now this is Europe's third march into our civilization. And the so-called orange revolution is implementing this project in our territory. Next steps in. It's a meat-and-milk war, Tuzla, Black Sea Navy lighthouses and so on. The actions of the President, the Governments, have demonstrated their frank anti-national course of betrayal of national interests, which they are so fond of proclaiming in ecstasy from every Ukrainian tribe. One of our colleagues here has agreed from the rostrum even before its nuclear status needs to be restored in the name of Ukraine's independence. Dear colleague, don't worry, Chernobyl is our eternal nuclear status. Madam President, I ask you to give an order to publish the results of the factions' vote on these two bills in the parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine. The people must know their heroes. And he'll give these heroes an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed. With Assadchev's motives, please. Nigga's next. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u131	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy The “productive” work of the Supreme Council under the direction of the Communists continues, dear friends. But the faction of the Ukrainian People's Block of Kostenka and Ivy still thinks we need some kind of construct to get out of this. As a result of what the Communists have done today, Russia has put an embargo on our products, you know. And that's why we think that to remedy this situation, and by the way, their behavior as communists today is also damaging to normal relations with Russia. To remedy this situation, yesterday we calculated that about 180 or 200 million dollars should be transferred to the village today to support our producers who are selling today 60 copies of milk. We would very much ask the Supreme Council to accept such a government commission, and these funds can be taken from the contingency fund today. I'm very grateful to support this proposal and the faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u132	Vladimir Cherniak, Tajnibok. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, it is clear that normal relationships with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan need to be built. Only the enemy of Ukraine can deny this. This is understandable to all of us. And we're all for it. That's not the point. The point of the question is different. The question is that the question of the only economic space is surrounded by a mist of politics, deception, and wickedness. That's the problem. There was a deliberate substitution of ideas. Instead of talking about the free trade area, the issues were polished and called the only economic space. I have already told you that the only economic space owes much, not only to the free trade zone, to the single customs union, to the national regulatory body and to the single currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u134	Oleg Tuggnibok, Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u135	Oleg Tajnibok, Head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, it is quite obvious that the only economic space is new imperialism, but not political, but economic. It's actually a new union agreement. And it is absolutely obvious today that Russia is waging war, a spy war, an information war, an economic war. And, God forbid, she can translate the war politically. And this war in Russia only succeeds because in Ukraine, in power, and including in the legislature, very many agents of Moscow's influence, who are still working for Russia today, not in Ukraine, but working for Russia. That is why the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has developed a programme for the protection of Ukrainians, which clearly states that we cannot sign any agreements on the entry into the EP. We need to get Ukraine out of SND and get the Russian troops out of Crimea. And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u136	Mikhailo Ratushny, please. Nestor Schuffritch is on the move.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It is clear to everyone that there is an economic war against Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Regrettably, in Ukraine, parliamentary elections and political powers are coming together in contrast with the situation with Tuzla, and they have found courage regardless of political differences. Now there's no such position, because some people think it's going to involve the support of the Russian capital or the Russian-speaking electorate. It won't happen. Russia's gonna need you here as a layman. Communists, at least think of the story of Ukrainian Communist Screepnik, who fought very hard against the U.N.R., and 10 years later he received a bullet in his forehead from Moscow Communists. Don't work in the dance halls! Because all that's happening right now is a special operation against Ukraine. And you just do the role and function of those Kremlin puppeteers, don't do the puppet act, don't do the Ukrainian boys in the One Economic Space fight against.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u138	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich has another thought, please. Sergey followed him, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! I want to speak the national language: don't be intimidated by war. All the wars we started against us ended in the capitals of those countries that attacked us. In 1812, your beloved Napoleon attacked us, and the Ukrainian Cossacks ended this war in 1814 in Paris. At 41 and 45, I won't remind you, because you're so scared. But we're scared of each other today, we've already figured out the price of gas, with the price of gas, it's your free will, it's your responsibility. But today people are no longer able to buy potatoes and cabbage. Today, instead of 80 kopecks, potatoes cost 3 bracelets, 4-5 griven cabbage. What's left of us is that you can only take the air away from us, and you're already making it radioactive. Only in association with States is our future, our economics first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u140	Sergey Sobolje will vote. Please, those who sign up for after Sobolev will no longer have words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I think this pathetic thing, which now sounds from different angles, should still end up the only one. What is the only economic space? If the only economic space is a free trade area, which is also a decision that is consistent with the Supreme Council and the insistence that was appropriate for President Kuchma, who was clearly given a mandate that a free trade zone under the current Constitution is the main point that should ensure both the free movement of goods and services and jobs and the labour force. Then I have one question. Why in all the agreements that are in force today, we have the worst relations with agrarian products, we have now been hit by pipe products, we have such blows literally in every direction. And the answer is one, because the EP does not view this as a free trade zone, but it sees this as another factor of pre-election tension. So ask: Stop doing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u142	Please, Frost, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u143	The honourable deputies, the declarations that have been made, do not need much on this subject, including during consideration. We really need to have a free trade zone and we need to sign the papers, develop the conditions. And from that list of regulations that we're talking about, about 29 conditions apply to free trade zones, and they're still going to be a separate subject of Parliament's consideration. Our faction did not vote in favour of ratifying the EP Law because there were no calculations. After all, they must appear. Two hours ago, I met with Russian industrialists who wanted to form a single investment commission with industry today. And they say the same thing. The question of tariffs, the question of prices, the conditions of cross-border crossings, and so on, it should be a specific subject, not a general declaration. Let's give the government a mandate, let it work in this respect, and the content of the decree is reduced. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u144	I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The resolution on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for first-line inter-State agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan with regard to third countries to form a single economic space, registration number 8431. Please vote. [[13:59:34]] For 223 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 59, Communists – 54, People's Party – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 29, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democratic Party – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, People's Movement, “Reforms and Orders”, “Only Ukraine” – 0, “Afterfraction” – 5. [[united]] Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Vote. [[14:00:21]] For the 220. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 56, Communists – 56, People's Party – 28, “Our Ukraine” and “Timoshenko Block – 0, Socialists – 29, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, “Social Democrats” – 19, “Ukrainian People” – 0, “Rebirth” – 5, “Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, People's Movement, “Reforms and Orders”, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 5. Dear colleagues! We need to make one point with you right now. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 294 of the Code on Administrative Offences, with the proposals of the Committee on Over-vote. Registration number 8659. Please, Marcus, the explanation is there, literally a little clarification, because we allowed only the first deputy judge, and there any deputy. Maria Andriyevna, one minute and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the Legislative Security Committee, law enforcement, reports that on 12 January 2006, the Supreme Council was reviewed by a reduced procedure and adopted as a bill amending article 249 of the Code of Administrative Offences. The law has been adopted with the aim of extending the possibility of judicial protection of citizens in matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u146	Excuse me, Maria Andriyevna. Please don't tell me anything. Tell me what you're asking. We have heard what this law is about because we voted for it. What kind of clarification should be made?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u147	In voting on a bill by the National MP, Sasa has been warned that the bill should be brought into line with part two of article 28 of the Ukrainian Sudokustia Act. I was a reporter, and in response to a warning, I was referring to all the deputy heads of the Court of Appeal and, first, to the deputy heads of the Court of Appeal, the heads of the courts, including, as their positions are equivalent. But because of the noise in the hall at the beginning of the vote for the project, I was unable to finish my opinion, so it was not recorded in the transcript. I would like to re-vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u149	We don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u150	Once again, you and I have voted to amend article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences. We voted the sixth number. There was a suggestion that the bill should be brought into line with part two of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudokustra, which states that the head of the Court of Appeal has the first deputy and deputy heads. [[Sasa, People’s Deputy]] This law also states that in the absence of a judge’s head, the first deputy or deputy judge is entitled. Yeah? Yes. Or intercessors. First intercessor or intercessor, that is to say, clarify. I am voting for the clarification of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 8659. First intercessor or intercessor. Please vote. We discussed it. Vote. The vote, the vote, is that the committee of Moses is asking. [[14:04:12]] For 212 Dear colleagues! We discussed it. The committee asked us what we had recorded, not hearing us vote on the specifics of the people’s deputies, and so the committee of Moses asked us to write that not only the first deputy and deputy, but the first deputy or intercessors, for it has both the first intercessor and the deputy. Please vote. Vote. “And”! Vote. [[14:04:53]] For 241 Thank you. Clarification accepted. Yeah, we've got a whole group of colleagues here to talk to. Yes, the Social Democrats, the faction, the BUTT and the People's Party. Yes, please, who? The storm. Please prepare yourself from the BUIT and. Belarus and Salmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u151	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, opposition block “No YES!” [[united]] The opposition bloc “No YES! ” claims that the situation surrounding the updated Constitution of Ukraine is unacceptable. By its decree of December 15, the Supreme Council obliged the Cabinet to provide by December 31 with an official publication of the text of the Constitution, amended by Act No. 2222 of Ukraine, with a levy of 100,000 copies at the expense of the State budget. The preamble to the decree we passed clearly sets out the purpose of the publication for the proper information of Ukrainian citizens about the organization of state authority in Ukraine. However, the decisions of the Supreme Council are not being implemented, and the text of the Constitution of Ukraine, which has been amended so far, is still not available for sale. For the second month now, its citizens have been deprived of access to the amended basic Law. To date, the text of the updated Constitution is only posted on the Web site of the Supreme Council, which, given the low level of access to the Internet, is certainly not enough. They are convinced that the situation with the Constitution of Ukraine is not accidental. It is not justified to write it down for the negligence of the Cabinet officials responsible for issuing the document. We state, in the actions of the electoral opposition “Block NOT YES!” sees concrete steps directed against its own people to limit its access to the Constitution of Ukraine. Instead of the official text of the Constitution, assessments are proposed. Officials, including the President of Ukraine, are constantly and on schedule forcing Ukrainian citizens to think about the imperfections of the basic Law, the urgent need to rewrite it. In fact, these evaluation judgements are evidence of real government plans for the organization and governance system in Ukraine, testimony to the implementation of a general strategy aimed at breaking political reform, which we witnessed today during the President's speech. The refusal of power to distribute the updated text of the Constitution is also a way of avoiding responsibility for failed socio-economic policies, the consequences for which both the state and the citizens are catastrophic. The government lives in other dimensions, in other digital data, which, again, we've heard here today, during the president's speech. Procrastination with the official publication of the updated text is also the only way to hide the lies of the authorities' statements about the unconstitutionality of the Supreme Council's decision to resign the Government. The electoral “NOT YES” block requires an immediate report from the Government on the implementation of the Supreme Council Decision 3197 on the issuance of an updated text of the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 1295. We are personally addressing the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: conduct an investigation, ask the competent authorities to investigate all the reasons for delaying the official publication of the updated text of the Constitution of Ukraine on the trade network. We also insist that Bill 8666 on “Criminals” be heard in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u152	Yes, from the BUT faction and the “One Ukraine” by Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. Get ready for Salmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, national MPs, Ukrainian citizens! I want to make an offer that's very timely, and that seems to set up all the factions. This proposal is to review immediately the group of laws 7732 and up to number 6 here seven or eight laws, in which representatives of different factions strongly propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on Intactness]] The motives of this decision of the Supreme Council are well - known. We discussed, of course, that the so-called “inviolability of MPs” of local councils does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine, in mass order, at meetings, demand that each of us remove this element, which leads to nothing but criminalizing local councils of all levels. I think that whether now, if we have the power to vote or at four o'clock, we should do it now, because the Conciliation Council was still planning to vote on this yesterday, and this law should be adopted today. This is what millions and millions of Ukrainian citizens expect of us. Dear colleagues, these bills, starting with 7732-state, 7732-1d, where the authors of me and my colleague, School, are actually similar. Differences, and that says there's solidarity between them, minimal. So we can accept them in a consolidated way as the only bill right now, and our voters will be very, very grateful to us. I very much ask the MPs to agree to this and to vote in favour of this group of bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u154	Thank you. So, vote now? Now? Let's give it a try. Please, Salmin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u155	Thank you. Statement by the faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania, on the use of administrative pressure against activists and supporters of the People's Block. The faction of the People's Party, the “Lithuania People's Block”, has been forced to appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament on the facts of the escalation of administrative pressure by the authorities on their subordinates, representatives of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Thus, in the Galopol region of Zaporozhye, support for the annual district tournament by the People’s Block of Lithuania has turned into a total horror for sports fans and activists of the National Block. On the eve of the West, the district authorities in the head of the Rujsenka regime and his deputy, Dombrowski, took advantage of their position in the ultimative form of warning those who sincerely tried to have a small holiday in the area, to cut their jobs, and to quit their jobs. On the day of the tournament, the authorities went down even before shutting down the heating of the sports school in a 19-degree frost. She also tried to shut down the power. Permanent reprisals, humiliations and accusations are felt by the local authorities on all members of this region and the family, including those who were not afraid to openly claim to support a policy other than that of the Lithuanian People's bloc. In relation to the National Block of Lithuania, the people of Energodar of Zaporozhye region experienced the approval of officials. The city’s head Morsztavka, as an activist of a well - controlled party, authoritarianly dismissed the subordinates, motivating them to refuse to share the mayor’s political preferences. Thus, a member of the National Party, a respected and authoritative man in the city, the director of the KP “Heat Channel” of Solomon, was forced to join the political party by Prime Minister Energodar for a long time, and was severely pressured, kept under pressure by the labor groups of the enterprise. At the end of the day, man was unjustifiably removed from office and only because he is a proponent of the constructive views and ideas of the People's Block of Lithuania. At the moment, 17 employees of the enterprise who are members of the People’s Party have made a fine choice, or they have applied to apply for discharge at their own request or to apply for admission to the lavender. An open political order is a matter that is violated by the investigating authorities of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior in Kiev No. 203402, marking article 190 to 4 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Actions. They clearly outline deliberate accusations and presumptuous orders. Only the fact that individual sample documents have been removed with further refusal to join the case of the necessary additional materials, as evidenced in the benefit of the accused, is regarded as an objective, unilateral, investigative investigation in a case fabricated by certain interested persons. That is why we consider it necessary. by the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for a criminal case, and by verifying the validity of the offence. All of these facts cannot help but provoke a different reaction in a constructively reasonable political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u156	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Two words, just two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u157	Therefore, the faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania calls upon all political forces to join in our protest against administrative pressure and official saviour, especially in the previous March elections. We urge officials to stop, not pressure the Ukrainians, to carry out at least one promised authority and the President that the law and the Constitution are the only one for all. We request the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give appropriate instructions to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to carry out verification of these facts, such as violation of the constitutional rights of citizens and freedom of political opinion. Please consider the application to be a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-09-m0.u158	Yes, respectable colleagues, three pairs of factions took advantage of their right to a break and expressed their vision of problems. Last statement, three pairs of factions. The last statement was strongly supported by the exclaims of “Hanba ” by Yuri Anatoliyovich. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We'll start the evening session at 4:00.
