ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies! invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:02:02]] There were 353 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Nightshenko Mikoli Petrovich, Slobodan Alexander Viacheslavovich, who was 50 years old and Toločka Petra Petrovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success in their work. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind the leaders of the MP factions that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock. We're going to discuss issues that are relevant, and at the same time there's no political agreement between factions, and then we're going to figure out how to act. With this in mind, we worked on the Conciliation Board's decision to schedule a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this plenary week on February 21-24. We need to take decisions now from the issues that we discussed before, these are usually draft regulations. What, what? There's a show on Wednesday. No, we did it once, we had an ad hoc decision. Dear colleagues, we must now take a decision as a result of hearing reports from the Cabinet of Ministers and conducting Government Days. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the status and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine is under review. Mikola. Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues, you have this draft decision, we have considered it, and we have decided that it should be further worked out. Now the committee has been working on this project. What are some warnings about him? You don't? Please, Oleg Pullside, microphone and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, February 21st is the International Day for the Protection of Mother tongues. So I'm addressing all of my fellow Parliamentarians. Let's just hope that this day in the Ukrainian Parliament we speak exclusively in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Peter Petrovich Toloczko by decree, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u5	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I have a comment on the decision on the Information Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the status and prospects of preservation of cultural heritage. I've done this before. I asked for the removal of paragraph 3.3, which is both invalid and offensive to archaeologists. Sadly, though, today this decree is made with this paragraph. I ask either to delete this item or not to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we really, when we discussed this last time, Peter Petrovich's proposal was. And there was a commission in connection with the fact that they could not make a positive decision to work on. But the committee did not take that proposal into account. So I'm going to put it as a base first. And when we take it as a basis, we will vote on Peter Petrovich's proposal to exclude paragraph 3.3. No warning? I'm voting on the adoption of the 8671-d registration form. On the basis, and then we'll delete, your honorary colleagues. [[10:06:34]] For-151 The decision is not taken. So I'm voting for a motion: to adopt a draft ruling as a ruling with the deletion of paragraph 3.3. Since we have not taken the basis, we need to find a solution. And paragraph 3.3. So read it, dear fellows, there is! I read: “I monitor the activities of organizations in the field of protection of cultural heritage, scientific and rescue archaeological services, cultural heritage centres, etc., which, in fact, replace cultural heritage bodies, use the laws of Ukraine on protection of cultural heritage and on protection of archaeological heritage, other legal acts on the basis of their own assets, make a cost-effective agreement between those or other progrees and projects of urban, architectural, landscape, construction, meliorative, road, land-based works on the monuments of cultural heritage, their territories, in protection zones, on protected archaeological territories, in historical areas of inhabited cities, and to take immediate action from the cessation of the activities of such organizations in relation to the preservation of cultural heritage, in the protection of protected archaeological areas, in the historical habitats of inhabited cities and to the preservation of their heritage functions. Understand? What are some suggestions? Well, please, Paklusenko, then Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky. Turn on the microphones.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u8	Alexander Pecklusenko, Regina faction, Zaporozhye district, 84th constituency. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you were in Zaporozhye, and you know the problem today for Zaporozhye is bridges. It's not just about archaeologists, it's about bridges again. This Act, which involves everything in a row, is why our faction and we propose to all factions: to remove this Act from the vote. You can't mix things up. For Zaporozhye, however, bridges are a question that has been resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u9	Yes, Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky, one minute. Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky, turn on the microphone. It's not a discussion going to draft a decision. Yeah, well, you're an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u10	Mikola Joulinski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, in principle, I agree with the suggestions made by Petrovich Toloczko. And the committee is willing to support this, because this is also our position. Maybe we haven't been able to count all this. But this Law has to be adopted, because, indeed, if we don't accept it now, then all of these organizations that are acting on their own discretion and making a lot of money by replacing state structures. This leads to the loss of huge ones. And so, dear fellows, we should not postpone this Law today, and I propose to support it, taking into account Peter Toloczko's suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, microphone. And let's welcome John Alexanderovich back to the parliamentary team.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I think we should stop somewhere. To stop and not fight against Ukrainian nature, the Ukrainian state, not to fight against the environment, and to realize that those technical projects that were developed 40 years ago, they cannot be implemented today in this globalized world, where natural resources are completely destroyed, where spirituality is now very low. And this determination, it's really calling us to come to our senses, and so that we can finally begin a spiritual revival on a national basis so that we don't end up building those valley rivers so that we can finally give some kind of expression of energy to the Ukrainian tradition itself, to the Ukrainian custom. So, frankly, blocking a decision is an anti-Ukrainian position. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy to vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! The discussion is closed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal by removing paragraph 3.3 from the draft regulation as a ruling. Registration number 8671-d. [[10:11:30.]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Ukrainian Regions" – 0, Communists – 0, National Party – 28, Block Timoshenko – 21, "Our Ukraine" – 25, SPI – 2, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 16, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, Rebirth Party – 2, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 1, "Reforms and Orders" – 5, Postfraction – 10. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote once again the return of the draft decree, registration number 8671-d. I'd like you to identify your peers. Don't look at me like that. We have to go through the whole procedure. Well, please, please. About the return. Voting goes, voting. [[10:12:27]] For 178. The decision is not taken. I ask the honourable committee to work on a project that is essential to us. A draft decree on compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on quality education in rural areas is under consideration. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please. And there's a draft decree on the inadmissibility of individual points. I'm asking you to prepare a national MP for the Blackwolf. If. Miss Igor Raphaelovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The rural education decree was considered very carefully on the committee. The committee took into account all the amendments, all the suggestions made by the deputies. The committee held a special field meeting in the White Church, where the heads of the district education departments from all parts of Ukraine were invited. The problem of rural education is problem number one. This decree takes into account all the proposals made by the Ministry of Education and Science. Other ministries’ proposals are taken into account. The main thing about this decision is the following. There must be quality education in the countryside. To have quality education, you have to create basic schools in the countryside. These primary schools should center around certain rural areas from which children come. Primary schools should be complete. The minimum number of primary school children should be 300 students, which means 12 classes of 25 students on average. The best is 650 students. The basic school needs to be fully formed. There's gotta be a way to get to elementary school. There's gotta be roads. The primary school must be provided with transportation. The elementary school should have a land plot where students could work in biology or other science classes and thus learn to do physical work and learn to do the ground. The primary school should be a marketing center for the relevant agricultural products produced in the region. This is required in that draft decree. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is asking for a draft ruling, but there is one paragraph in the draft decree that was adopted by vote on the first reading. The project considers the government’s work in rural education to be unsatisfactory. This is an unfair paragraph that refers to this government, although what I am saying now refers literally to all the governments that have been in Ukraine now and the Ukrainian Republic. So I'd like to ask you this. I'd like the Supreme Council to adopt a draft ruling. I would ask the Supreme Council to delete a paragraph that defines the government's work as unsatisfactory, because it refers not to this government, but to all other governments. And you don't have to wave your head, so what I'm saying is fair. And so I ask the honourable deputies to vote on each other's proposals. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u15	Igor Raphaelovich, thank you very much too. Have a seat, please. National MP Blackwolf. You don't? Is it? Please have the right to base your proposal. The discussion is over. The minister will speak now and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u16	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we can evaluate the actions of this government differently, we can judge the situation differently in education. In any case, we have to pay the right amount that both the teachers' salary and the entire education remit have increased by 50% compared to 2004; that's already a big achievement, so when we're summarizing the activities, we're asking the question of unsatisfactory work, well, at least not good enough. At the same time, if we take up the problem of rural schools, it is obvious that there has always been a gap in the quality of education between rural schools and urban schools, as well as in different areas, that is also an obvious fact. Remember, in Ukraine, even in the former union, there was a system of preferences for graduates of rural schools, because of the insufficient quality of education. It is determined by objective factors, and it is obvious that it must be fought down. At the same time, if we take up the government of Yehanurov, he works from September of the month to say that during this time we can overcome this difference, which has not been overcome for decades, and obviously we cannot. And so to ask the question in a way that's just an abstract government, what government? The government of Timoshenko, the government of Yehanurov, the previous governments, the governments of Soviet power? So it's a ridiculous setup, more than that, it doesn't specify what kind of government it is and how long it takes, which contradicts paragraph 3.5. Paragraph 1 of the Rules is therefore proposed to delete paragraph 2, recognizing that it is not in conformity with the Supreme Council’s Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u17	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to raise your hands, we've already discussed it, we're making a decision. So, Minister, we ask Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenka, he'll tell us everything, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I thank Parliament today for considering and paying attention to the problems of rural school, where we have almost 14,000 schools today. There are many problems. In general, the decision will be in favour of the case, but today I would like to thank Deputy Blackwolf, I really think that paragraph two needs to be ruled out, because it does not reflect the trends that are currently taking place through both government and parliament in joint work. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Just two digits. For the first time in years of independence, 150 million were allocated to repairing rural schools. Now we've got a schedule: each district gets a grant for these needs. 163 million were first allocated to rural areas for the computerization of rural schools. 90 million took loans from the World Bank to repair the roofs, repair the system, etc., and nearly 70 million more. The bus was also distributed to locations of 140 million people. - for textbooks. I think it's more than half a billion dollars for the first time, and I'm not saying that we don't actually have vacancies in rural schools today, we've raised wages for four stages. I would like to ask the people’s deputies to support the ruling, except for paragraph 2, because it will not be objective, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The point is that when we considered the issue, we listened to information from the Cabinet of Ministers and voted on the draft decree, there were two proposals. The first suggestion, if I'm not mistaken, is to consider the work insufficient, which was prepared and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. This offer was not supported. Then there was a second suggestion: to find work unsatisfactory that the Supreme Council supported and thus voted on the basis of the document. In view of the fact that the Crnvolenko People's Deputy has passed a draft decision on the non-acceptability of paragraph 2, and since we have already discussed it, I will now put it to the vote. Although I do not believe that this paragraph on "unacceptability" cannot be voted on, because "inadmissibility" is being addressed when it comes to violations of certain laws. It's about the actual, the political evaluation. But you heard the argument made by the chairman of the committee, and you heard an argument made by the minister regarding the work being done. That is why I am putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Unacceptability, paragraph 2 of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “To comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine”. [[on the acquisition of quality education in rural areas]] I mean, it's about withdrawing the position to recognize the government's work on this issue as unsatisfactory. I'd like you to determine by vote. Yes, there goes the vote, we vote, dear colleagues. [[10:22:09]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, everyone has arrived. Please. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of quality education in rural areas. [[Registration No. 8656-d]] Please vote. [[10:22:48]] For-187 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the return of the draft ruling. [[Registration No. 8656-d]] About the return. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. [[10:23:16]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. A draft decree on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of housing and utilities is being announced. [[completed]] Registration number 9081. And we still have alternative number 9081-1, author of the People's Deputy Odynik. Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On February 10th, here in the session room, we heard a report from the government on housing work. And frankly, the open questions did not get any smaller. We have never heard a clear understanding from the government of the need to implement a state-wide programme on housing and housing development. And this is, I remind you, a comprehensive state-wide strategy to get the industry out of crisis and to ensure that it continues to function. I've already told you what the main problem is. The minister’s office finances no more than 10-20 percent of the program annually. First of all, the cost of retrofitting residential households that don't regularly receive local self-government. After that, Alcevsk and other cities appear, and what will be the next winter? There will be a chain reaction and the situation will not be managed at all. For non-admission, we have brought in a draft of an appropriate decision in accordance with the recommendations that have been sent and expressed by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. It also obliges the government to report to the Supreme Council each year on the readiness of housing and work facilities during the spring-winter period. The draft decree envisions a whole range of recommendations for local self-government bodies, whose responsibility for the unfortunate state of municipal housing and utility facilities is not removed. The Ministry gave us three suggestions, we didn't take them into account, because they're accounted for, the Cabinet of Ministers order of February 9, 2006 -- this is paragraph 5 and 6. And I recommend that Mr. Kachuru's Minister of Housing and Utilities hold a seminar on the situation of residential and utility farming in Slavotic, where the system of housing and utility reform is in place, which is headed by the mayor of Slavotic Volodymir Udovicenko. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u21	Yes. Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. I'm going to ask Michael Odynik to justify the date of the draft decision you made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Good day to you and good health to all! We know that on February 10, 2006, the Supreme Council heard a government report on housing and utilities. As reported in this room, we've all heard, our colleague Paul Kachur, who, I want to pay attention to, was appointed on September 28, 2005 to the post of Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine. I mean, it hasn't been six months since his appointment. Just as since the beginning of the government of Yuri Yehanurov. That's why the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, offering to recognize the government's work as unsatisfying for some reason, forgot to report to the government. Or the government of Yanukovich, or the government that once headed today’s head of the profiling committee. Because the question of the catastrophic state of housing and utilities did not arise in September 2005. Experts have noted and warned that in 2005-2006 they are peaks for possible technological accidents. Because that's the period where we have a critical piece of equipment wearability. And it was necessary to prepare for that date. Because within six months, we cannot repair what has been repaired for decades. For some reason it is not said today that, when the State Budget Project for 2006, I would like to pay particular attention to this, the government of Yehanurov has prepared proposals to allocate 300 million dollars of subsidies to local budgets for measures aimed at reducing costs for the production, transfer and consumption of thermal energy and 150 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. for the development, reconstruction of centralized water supply and water supply systems. In addition, the government has proposed credit mechanisms that target, stimulate the involvement of non-state investment in the modernization of the sector, and require the involvement of another 300 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. non-state credit resources. Unfortunately, however, I would like to say that these proposals were not supported by the Supreme Council. And it has to be admitted. Why, then, is it proposed that the government of Yehanur be evaluated in this matter? “?? Satisfying.’ That's why I'm addressing the deputies, and I'm asking you that there's not enough criticism. I'm proposing to the people's deputies to be objective, so I've put into your consideration an alternative project, which is proposed to the government in the area of housing and utilities, which is insufficient and given.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u23	Yes, Your Honor, well, the Desert Tank microphone for 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say the following to my distinguished colleague, who has just spoken of governments. That every newly appointed government or president assumes full responsibility for the state of affairs in the national economy of Ukraine and including housing and utilities. And she's today. That's nice. And there is no need to be squandered into the governments that exist today. Look what's going on at the Cabinet. The Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant is not operational. All the factories were running. Why isn't it working now? Who Will Take Responsibility? And that's the situation in housing. There can be no satisfactory government work today or insufficient, only insufficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. While you're preparing for the vote, let me put it this way. I'd like us to calm down and understand what's going on in the assessment of the state of affairs in this area, not the assessment of the people who are just covering this position. Well, we have every reason to say that we're dissatisfied with the situation. I think it's a general assessment of Ukrainian society and it's a task for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to ask that we don't take that kind of assessment painfully. I'm voting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 9081, on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of housing and utilities. Please vote. It's about money, dear colleagues, let's vote. [[10:31:56]] For 268. I'll take the order. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation in the agro-industry sector of Ukraine and on the state of preparation for spring-field work in 2006 is being announced. We have three draft regulations. That's why I'm talking about now Ivan Fedorovich Tomich to make the committee. Please, Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On February 14, 2006, the Ukrainian Cabinet was briefed on the implementation of legislation in the agro-industry sector of Ukraine and the state of preparation for spring-field work in 2006. Taking into account the socio-economic situation in the countryside and the preparation for spring-field work, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations first considers it advisable to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers concentrate on three main areas. First. Changes in the monthly budget allocation for 2006 for the first half of the year are no less than 60 percent, including the first quarter, 40 percent, and by 1 March, 540 million dollars for post-harvest support for winter crops. The other one. Make changes to the 2006 budget, predicting an increase in expenditure under the Ministry of Agrarian Policy for the provision of spring-field jobs. First. The cost to agribusiness enterprises of short and long-term loans of 300 million dollars, including 150 million short-term loans. The formation of a seed seed reserve of 30 million dollars. Allocation of 50 million dollars from the State Budget Reserve to partially compensate agricultural enterprises for losses associated with the loss of winter crops. Third. To stabilize the situation in the milk and milk market: first, to adopt legal acts concerning the granting to farmers of all forms of property, compensation for the sale of 40 copies of milk. Financial interventions also cover 100 million dollars to remove vegetable and dry milk from the market. And as for the sugar market, there are product interventions to stabilize the price situation in the sugar market in line with the state support for agriculture. In view of the difficult situation faced by the Ukrainian peasant, the committee asks for the support of the bill. Project Decision No. 9033-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Basil Nadrag. Please, your draft decision. Prepare Korja or Svatkova. Who will act? Kors?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u28	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina National Block”. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania, to express my gratitude to the Committee and the Hall for bringing them to the Hall on our initiative and considering the work of the Committee. Cabinet of Ministers for the implementation of legislation in the agro-industrial sector of Ukraine. Why? Because we believe that, unfortunately, the coming spring-field season is evidence that the Cabinet of Ministers is not properly trained on this issue. We believe that to date all necessary actions and activities are insufficient to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian State Budget 2006 legislation in terms of the agro-industry complex, State support for Ukraine's agriculture, grain and grain market in Ukraine and a number of other legislation. The individual requirements of the Supreme Council regulations relating to the agro-industry complex have also been ignored. So once again, we have done the right thing to you, regardless of our belongings, sympathy, antipathies, which have addressed the situation in the agro-industrial complex before the spring-field work. I must say that, after considering it in the Hall, the relevant committee has worked very closely on the bill, which was originally proposed, and today is more complete and more correct. Based on that logic, on behalf of the faction of the People's Block of Lithuania, we're shooting 9033-1. I believe it is necessary to support the bill, the draft decision proposed by the Professional Committee, 9033. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u29	National Deputy Korge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u30	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Information from the Ukrainian Cabinet on the implementation of legislation in the agro-industry sector and the state of preparation for spring-field work shows that the situation in the agro-industry complex is a crisis. It's a particularly difficult situation to prepare for spring-field work. It is known that, as a result of the increase in energy supplies, minibars, spare parts, and technicians, the cost of a single hectare of grilling increased by between 500 and 700 dollars in the last year. Ukrainian companies are provided with spending on spring-field jobs by only 50 percent, which could have a very negative impact on the domestic economy. The situation is also very complex in the field of animal production. The government did not protect the domestic farmer from the Russian Federation’s ban on imports of animal products from Ukraine, resulting in the loss of more than 10 million dollars a day by Ukrainian producers. We propose to recognize the situation in the agri-industrial complex of Ukraine as a crisis. The work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in implementing legislation in the agro-industrial sector and the state of preparation for spring-field work is considered unsatisfactory. People's deputies would like to support this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u31	Yeah, thanks, too. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote now, prepare for the vote. For reasons, please register before the vote. And invite the deputies to the session room. We need to adopt an extremely important draft decision. Please sign up, three minutes. Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I really urge you to support just the previous speaker. In the country, the state of affairs in the country is critical. And when someone else is talking today, whether it's 30 million or 20 million, adding to some fertilizer and so on, it's a shame. We're in the village today, even if we can see under the spring-field work at least 2 billion, and we're probably not going to fix the situation in the country. So there is nothing further to keep, to allow, to exacerbate the situation in the countryside. We need to make radical decisions. And there is nothing to be sure about today’s head government, which is fulfilling its responsibilities, is practical. We need him today, this work about the village is considered unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u33	Andrew Polit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u34	Andrew Politt, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u35	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we really need to make a very responsible decision with you right now with regard to the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of legislation in the agro-industry sector of Ukraine and the state of preparation for spring-field work this year. And in fact, the three draft decisions presented for our consideration are different, and above all, they are assessed. So a faction of communists will only support a draft decision of 9333 MPs if the evaluation of the Cabinet of Ministers is found to be unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u37	Victor Boyko, please. Is it? I can't see. Matthew Sergey, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u38	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the issue of the state of the village to date cannot possibly bother anyone, especially with the weather conditions in which we are facing today, especially with the situation in which the winters have fallen. I don't think there's a person today who probably doesn't care about the future of our Power and the future of our country. We have considered this issue very carefully with the factions. I would not like to see him turn into another political speculation today, because, indeed, the village today needs tremendous support. It needs constant support. What the European Union countries are doing is what many are talking about today. Take Poland, take other States -- a specific crop ton grant, a specific price subsidy, a specific credit line grant, an incentive system that is in place to date. An effective programme and effective concrete steps are indeed needed. And very, again, I would not like this matter to become a political overture today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, let's do this. Because we really need a draft decision, especially taking into account the proposals made by the committee. So in order for us to act now in accordance with the Rules, I will put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? We vote, there were two proposals for assessing the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. The first evaluation proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National MP from Nadrag is not enough. The second assessment, which in draft decrees 9033-1 of the people's deputies also came from the faction of Communists, found work unsatisfactory. So now we're going to vote on the first paragraph. After one of the proposals has received the necessary support from the session hall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will put it to the vote as a whole. No warning? I'll be the first to vote on the proposal for paragraph one. The work of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on implementing legislation in the agricultural sector of Ukraine's economy and the state of preparation for spring and field work in 2006 is not considered sufficient. Please vote. Here comes the vote, my dear fellows. [[10:45:11]] For-97 The decision is not supported. I'm voting on a second proposal. The work of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on implementing legislation in the agricultural sector of Ukraine's economy and on the state of preparation for spring and field work in 2006 is not satisfactory. Here comes the vote. [[10:45:46]] For 246 Decision taken. Just a minute. Given the first paragraph that we just adopted, I'm voting on the draft ruling as a whole as a decision. Registration number 9033-d. Please vote. [[10:46:22]] For 261 I'll take the order. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 54, Communists - 56, People's Party - 37, Block Timoshenko - 38, Our Ukraine - 0, SPI - 1, National Block - 22, SDPU (o) - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 12, Rebirth - 3, National Movement - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 5, Reforms and Orders - 0, non-fractional - 14. Dear colleagues, a number of factions have asked to announce a recess for consultations. These are factions, well, I'm looking at Koval as a fraction of what? The national movement of Ukraine and “Our Ukraine”. Viacheslav Koval, right? Will you be performing? Please and prepare, who's going to be here from two factions? Nightmare. Let's just keep going into the construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u40	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, spoke on direct television for days on the “NTN” channel Viktor Janukovic said that perhaps the main culprit of the intense relationship with Russia is the head of the National Movement of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Boris Tarasyuk. So, great experts in the history of the recent Ukrainian-Russian relations would like to remind you that in the early 1990s, when the pre-Denish comrades cut down their capitals, and Ukraine just restored their lost independence, our relationship with our eastern friend came not only to gas blackmail, but to armed opposition. Where were the great supporters of friendship with Russia when they tried to take Sevastopol away from Ukraine, where was their firmness when we were accused that Ukraine’s independence was temporary? It was the pro-Ukrainian position of our diplomacy that made Ukraine an independent state. Perhaps, according to prominent internationalists and creators of Anna Ahmatova's creativity, the promotion of Ukraine's national interests is the provocation of hostile relations with neighbors, but only the protection of Ukraine's national interests is the only means of ensuring the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State. And as for the respect that Mr. Janukovic so suddenly called in his back, the level of respect that the democratic world has shown to all the Ukrainian people is well known. You'd be called "neglect" for a short time, and as a result, almost isolation. This will certainly not be said of a new democratic government that is a desirable and worthy partner for all countries. In the language of specific figures and facts, only the last year of normal equal relations with the Russian Federation brought an increase of 15% for both countries. Only transparency and honesty in relations have contributed to the start of recent negotiations on the demarcation of the state border, which, in turn, for both Ukraine and Russia will contribute to the reduction of illegal migration and organized crime near the border, in a way that is not without your involvement. Only in the new government did we learn what happens to the Black Sea fleet is not all cloudless, and Ukraine's budget is not 100 dollars or maybe billions of dollars short of the budget. According to your “ideals”, these are undeniable successes and they are provocations of strained relationships, and patriotic understanding is called equal relations between two independent states. The National Movement of Ukraine believes that there can be no alternative to normal friendly relations between Ukraine and Russia. But the development of relationships should take place without giving up national interests on an equal, fair platform. And pastures, God, without such great professionals in the field of international relations as previous leaders. There is a national interest in an independent Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u41	Please, Mikola Nightshenko. Dear colleagues! We've started working so well, please calm down, let's continue our work now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u42	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina. The Lithuanian people's block. Dear voters! The faction of the People's Party and the group of the People's bloc of Lithuania have consistently defended the rights of Ukrainian citizens. With low wage levels and social pay, we were able to stop the government from trying to raise the price of gas and electricity. The interstate agreements that have been concluded have not provided the desired prospect, the calls for review of existing contracts and conditions for securing Ukraine’s gas. There's a gas crisis on the doorstep with Turkmenistan. The requirements of the State budget for expenditure and income balance are clearly ignored, and the increase in gas prices has led to an increase in expenditure on the budget, and the budget has not been budgeted. No one speaks at all about the extra arrival of the State Budget. The question is, How will the cost of the increase in natural gas transit costs be used through Ukraine, from a dollar of nine cents to a dollar of 60 cents? There's not a small amount coming forward, it's 5 billion 800 million more in 2006 alone. Who will manage this? NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, for what merit, for what purpose? The government keeps its plans before the public about the use of the funds. A bill to amend the State budget for 2006 has therefore been prepared, registration number 9120. [[on the increase in rent for natural gas transit]] Ukraine's additional cost of gas transit is foreseen, it is aimed at supporting local budgets, financing the requirements of the Children of War Act, as well as “tapping holes” of the Pension Fund. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, include this bill as a priority. Next. More than a third of Ukraine’s gas and oil is extracted in the Sumskia region. Costs and incomes from the implementation go to Kiev, of course, and the problems of broken roads, inebriated drinking water, environmental pollution remain for the bagels. Recently, it has been released in the media that as many as 50 million, not as 90, were promised by the sum administration. In our view, it is enough to close problems with taxes. The request to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister, to fulfil his repeated promises to establish the State Company Sumi Oil. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We're handing over the parliamentary requests from the problems that have been solved. Please give the commission to review them in an orderly manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u43	Two factions, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and BUT, have requested a recess or a performance. Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u44	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm authorized to make a statement to our faction of this content. January and February ice cream caused irreparable losses to the Ukrainian village. According to the previous February 10th, more than 1.6 million people have been weakened and reduced. acres of winter, 730 thousand. The hectares are dead. That is, 38 percent of the winter wedge is actually counted for this year’s harvest. In southern areas and in Zakarpat, European grape varieties are threatened with destruction. In Donetsk, 80 percent of alliches, blacks, apricots, pears, and late apple varieties are struck. Generational organs of bone and grain cultures have been damaged in all regions. In Kirovgrad, the frosts completely destroyed the seeds of rapsa. The Socialist faction believes that without decisive action, Ukraine can expect many crops this year and many fruits over the years. Traveling minibars and fuel will further increase the impact of weather conditions on the state of vegetation, gardening, and agriculture in our country. To restore the loss of the winter. The country is obliged to support the peasants by planting crops, gardens, vineyards, and berries. In order to solve this national problem, it is necessary to allocate at least one billion dollars from the stabilisation fund. Socialists believe that Parliament and government should act in a consolidated manner in this situation. We have introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2006. [[on compensation for the loss of agricultural products from severe cooling at the expense of a stable fund]] And we believe that it should be considered on a timely basis, since weather conditions do not allow time for long thought and valid reconciliation. We think it's necessary to direct these funds to pay an additional grant to the peasants. For each hectare of dead crops, gardens, vineyards, berries. As well as paying and paying taxes and debts to congregations, without counting foams and fines to farmers, where osmium and gardening have been destroyed by more than 30 percent of the area. These measures will help to stabilize the agricultural situation, allowing farmers to obtain compensation from the state for the damage caused by the destructive cold that led to the loss of crops, especially crops, gardens, and vineyards. This is the only possible solution to the situation that has arisen, and this will eventually be an expression of the state's mature responsibility for the peasants and the village, the real concern for the food security of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u45	Please, two more factions: Ukrainian National Party and Rebirth. Who will act? Please. Mikola Porowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u46	Dear Head! Dear fellow MPs! The Rebirth Political Party faction draws the attention of the Supreme Council to the fact that Parliament has already ignored twice the ratification of Ukraine's extremely important agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the allocation of credit funds for the implementation of speedy train movements in Ukraine, the reconstruction of railways and the construction of the Beskid Tunnel. Unfortunately, only 165 deputies supported and understood the need to achieve European standards of transport in Ukraine. The fast train system has long become the norm in Europe. For this purpose, the European Union allocates 45 billion euros annually. The Rebirth Party faction believes that Ukraine should also not stay away from the process of improving the ways of communication that are taking place in the world. Ukraine's entry into the European market requires the immediate involvement of Ukrainian railways in the development of modern transport infrastructure. But the right to be an equal transport partner of Europe must be paid. And the problem of speeding trains is that, above all, there is limited funding. Modern railing technology is needed to ensure that the speed is greater than 200 kilometers per hour. I will remind you that the fifth international transport corridor, which connects Italy, the Balkans, Hungary and the cities of Chop and Lviv in Ukraine, is passing through our country. This corridor accounts for up to 40 percent of the freight and passenger flow that passes through the western border of Ukraine. And that's not a limit. If this corridor is extended to the East and West, it will unite the entire continent from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from Spain to the Far East. But a promising Ukrainian transport corridor can cease to work at any time for a long time. And the problem is an emergency one-track railway tunnel at the Beskid race in the Carpathians for two kilometers, which is on the Lviv-Chop area. The speed of the train was reduced to only 15 kilometers an hour, and the tunnel was built in 1886 and was demolished and quickly restored during World War II. In the event of an exit tunnel from the railway system to Hungary, other countries of Europe will be heavily paralyzed, and Ukraine will be left without significant volumes of freight. As a result, Ukraine will not only lose millions of dollars in transportation. And if the damage from stopping train traffic in this corridor can be calculated, the moral damage to Ukraine is not. A guarantee agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development project for the implementation of the rapid movement of trains also provides for the restoration of the tunnel, and for the construction of ways of connecting the reconstruction of the track. Of course, there are countless railway tunnels.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, we've all made speeches. Let's get to work. I would just like to say that the Supreme Council had the opportunity to ratify the document. First, he needs to join the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee has already decided to ratify it, and it is not yet in the Supreme Council. Reported for review, of what procedure? So you get out there, down there, or you write a statement, and we'll, I'll do it, my respectable colleagues, don't worry about your card. And don't ask me any more questions like that, please. The laws on which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto are announced for consideration, that is, he has made appropriate proposals and observations. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 has been published and has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 7 February 2006. Registration number 8683-1. Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room. An extremely important question. Giachenko. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, please take the position of President of Ukraine. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 19 January 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006. The reasons and motives for the return of this law to the Supreme Council and the proposal of the President of Ukraine for his re-examination are well known to you. The main issue is the lack of funding expenditure in the State budget for the current year for the "On Social Protection of Children of War" Act, in full terms, such as increasing pensions for children of war. That is to say, it is virtually impossible to implement this rule of law, including gradually without defining the specific amount of financial resources. With regard to utility benefits, tomorrow at a government meeting, it is planned to review the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the procedure for the introduction of social services benefits to children of war in 2006. Costs are provided by the State budget for these purposes. Taking this into account, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u49	Yes, the position of the President of Ukraine towards your well-known, distinguished colleagues has been proven. Thank you, sit down, please. Sophia Pavlovna Suprun, please. We're going to vote now. We'll listen to information from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The law adopted by the Supreme Council on aid to children of war and the fulfilment of another 30 percent requirement for adequate assistance to those who have the status of children of war is difficult enough. As you know, the Cabinet of Ministers passed the Budget Act 2006 without taking into account these payments under the Children of War Act. If the budget balance had already been established, it was extremely difficult for the committee to find the resources needed to fully meet the requirements of the law. So here on the Supreme Council, you and I have determined that this law will be introduced in stages. First, 25 percent will be compensated -- so-called, housing-communal benefits. And we at the Supreme Council, together with you, have determined that 700 million dollars are allocated to this goal in the State Budget. Another premium funded directly from the State Budget is the passage in suburban transport. Thus, one article, article 5, is provided with financial resources. It has to work since January 1, 2006. What must we do, fellow believers, to put this article into action? Only one thing needs to be done: this law does not require any change to the State Budget. It is necessary for the government to make a decision and to make a decision on how to provide such assistance to those living in the city and to those living in the villages elsewhere. Today's delay is solely government. What about article 6? In order to meet the requirement of this article, it is necessary to allocate 12 billion dollars from the budget. It's clear that if the budget balance is already in place, this money can be found in this range, as you know, you and I have defined it, it's virtually impossible today. The only option envisaged by the Budget Act is to review after the first half of 2006 the volume of government budget revenues, and perhaps then we will have the resources to implement this law to the full. The law that was passed in Parliament is unfortunately not correct in its formulation. And here we can agree that he can actually balance the State Budget for 2006. I would very much like for us to make decisions that are balanced and that we do not try.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u51	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u52	and did not try to accomplish what was impossible today. I very much ask my colleagues to pay attention to this and return to the law, especially when it comes to article 6 after the 1st half of 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Zybenko from the committee and invite the national deputies to the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw the attention of the public and citizens of Ukraine to the fact that, on November 18, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am not afraid of that word, made a historic decision on the restoration of justice in relation to the entire category of Ukrainian citizens. This is a category that is commonly called “children of war”. It was then voted in favour of this law that everyone was quite friendly, including today's President, in today's prime minister. True, at the time they thought they were opposition and, seeing the differences in today's position as Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine and their position at the time, I think, obviously they voted not to support this category of citizens, but to, if you'll excuse me, pour salt on someone's navel at the time, as they said, criminal authority. Otherwise, I can't explain today's position as Head of State and Head of Government. In our own time, when we passed the National Budget Act of Ukraine, we voted as a compromise decision that the State Budget Act of Ukraine was introduced from January 1st with the benefits of passing for children of war and with 25 percent housing and utility benefits. And it was commissioned by the government that, from the 2nd half of the year, right from the second half of the year, it would be possible to add 30 percent to the basic pension. That was the vote of the document. But when it was signed, it turned out to be completely different. Therefore, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, my fellow Members of Parliament! The Supreme Council of Ukraine today has two possible solutions: either to override the President’s veto under this law, or, if this is not possible, to create a parliamentary commission of inquiry and to find out on what basis the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006. I just don't have another definition of what happened to the State Budget. So, dear colleagues, I would like to thank Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk once again today as the author of the bill that we supported with you in the Supreme Council Hall, and to overcome the President's veto on this law, because today the citizens of Ukraine are looking forward to it. I would like to emphasize once again that children of war today are the main masses of veterans of labor that fall under this law. We can't ignore that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In accordance with the Rules and Procedures, the President of Ukraine's proposal to vote is the first. The proposal by the President of Ukraine is: taking into account what has been said, it is proposed to reject the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2006. I'm voting on this proposal from the President. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:11:22]] For-41 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? The second is the proposal to vote: to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006. [[concerning children of war]] Registration number 8683-1. Please vote. [[11:12:03]] For 318 For the faction, please. Decision taken. The President's veto for the Law, registration number 8683-1, is over. "Regions of Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 54, National Party - 39, Block Timoshenko -41, Our Ukraine - 0, SPI - 29, National Block - 22, SDPU (o) - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 13, Rebirth - 15, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 7, Reforms and Orders - 0, Non-fractional - 21. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24 October 2005 has been announced for consideration. Registration number 3323. Reporter is acting as Minister of Education and Science Stanislaw Mikolayovich Nikolayenko, please. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, today we must make an extremely important decision and finish the work that lasted for two years after the parliamentary hearings on amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. This Law contains all the changes and additions that have been made by more than 10 national deputies, about 150 university proposals, and so forth. This law is needed, by the way, tomorrow's general college of the Ministry of Education begins in higher education, and this will be a good gift to Parliament to our higher education system. Regrettably, technical inaccuracies were allowed at certain times, prompting the President to veto individual articles. The Ministry of Education and Science, along with the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Committee of Science and Education, worked on this law. You know, the veto was imposed in article 1 on the comparison of higher education institutions owned by consumer co-operation in matters of taxation to government, and the President disagreed with that; Article 18 in part of the mandate to implement public price policies in the field of higher education and price monitoring for education services to the Ministry of Education, is not a function of the Ministry of Education; In part of the requirements for a candidate to head a higher education institute of culture and art, one can agree; in the part of contracting a graduate of a higher education institution and compulsory work, as well as in the part of funding of article 62 of scientific and scientific and technical activities and article 64, concerning the change in pay for training. Veto is also quoted in some articles that contain the content of a violation of a simple norm. design technology. The proposal by the President of Ukraine for a law on change, additions to the Higher Education Act are largely taken into account, and the committee, in our opinion, found a palatify, took into account the positive changes. And we think we could vote on the changes that the committee has made. They are balanced. In particular, all issues, including the question of the Rector’s election, are settled. You know what was in the law. Vladimir Mihajlovich, stood the “Election of Rector” position that chose the entire collective. We can imagine if a team of the Kyiv National University or the Lviv Politechnics or the Kiev Politechnics or the University of Donetsk chose all the rectors. It's gotta be in the stadium, and you can't even find a stadium like this. So the committee made some interesting suggestions about where this all came into play. And I propose, taking into account the opinion of the committee, the national MPs, to vote on the law in the new edition. Taking into account the president's seven proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u57	Thank you, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich. Please take the seat of the committee. Mr. Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky, please Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Stanislaw Mikolaiovich spoke and said that we took into account the comments made at the parliamentary hearings and worked on their implementation for two and a half years. But when it comes to this law, we have been working for eight years to form a law, a system law on higher education in Ukraine. Of course, the problems are extremely complex, because we have to combine higher public education, private education, to combine the levels of education that we've introduced over the past 15 years, and to bring these positions into a single law. The committee and the working group, including the Ministry of Education and Science, were able to resolve these issues. Of course, there are a number of positions in this law that are not clearly understood by all. Today, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich spoke of the Rector’s election. Of course, you can put the Rector's election together as a whole, but a higher education facility is an institution run by a scientific council, a people of science, not a whole group. And when this article or this amendment was introduced into the committee, not all members of the committee were supported. When it comes to knots that are extremely large and profiled, of course there are problems in this regard. I support Stanislav Mikolaiovich that this part needs to be changed. The Committee believes that all seven of the President's proposals should be supported and that the question should be considered regarding the additional election of the Rector and the adoption of today's amendments by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is actually in line with the government's proposals. It's a sophisticated law. With the President's proposals, presented by Stanislaw Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko. It is therefore proposed to put to the vote the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Higher Education Act in a new edition, taking partial account of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:19:23]] For 358 The law is passed. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of technology transfer activities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from December 22, 2005, registration number 4008. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Economics, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut. Please, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Prepare Michael Kouzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u60	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, at the request of the President of Ukraine, I would like to inform you of the comments and suggestions to the law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. This law cannot be signed by the President for such reasons. First, the law does not define the concept of “technology transfer” which makes it impossible to properly regulate state-owned activities in this area, to establish transfer objects to which incentive measures are extended, as provided for in Articles 20, 22 of this Act. To avoid this, it is suggested that such a definition be given. The second part of article 10 of the Law provides that the chief budget administrators provided for by the State Budget Act may transfer to enterprises, institutions, organizations that use certain technologies, property rights, and technology created at the expense of government funds. This is contrary to the Code of Budgets and is proposed to delete the words “the budgetary appointments provided for by the State Budget Act” and in this way it can be adopted. Part 1 of article 12 of the law provides for State expertise in technology or technology and equipment used for their application, which is imported into Ukraine at the expense of state funds. This rule applies if the amount of the purchase is equal to or greater than the amount of the purchases for the relevant procedures by the law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. Thus, all other technologies that are imported into Ukraine, as well as all the domestic technologies that are purchased at the expense of government funds, are not subject to state expertise and control. There are also no regulations in the law on the conduct of national expertise on domestic technologies and their constituents for use in Ukraine and exports, such as State-owned transfer incentives. With a view to resolving the issues raised, articles 12, 14, 19 of the law are proposed in the draft of the corresponding articles of the bill introduced by the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers, registration No. 4008. 20 articles of the law set out the appropriate accounting of funds for the State budget received from the transfer of technology. It is proposed to clarify what is included in the State Budget special fund. Finally, article 22 states that the transfer of technologies that are made in the priority direction of innovation is to establish a target subsidy regime, such as import duty, value added tax and company income tax. In fact, it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u61	Give me a chance to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u62	In fact, it's about the granting of aid, which the President believes is contrary to the terms of entry, conditions in the GAT. Hence, article 22 is proposed to be excluded. I'd like to support the President's proposals and support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u63	Thank you, sit down, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u64	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The President of Ukraine has repeatedly applied the veto on the Ukrainian Law on State regulation in the field of technology transfer. At the first promise of the law, the proposal applied only to articles 18 and 22 of the legislative act. No comments were made on other articles of the law in the first promise. Therefore, this law was adopted in a new edition, practically entirely taking into account the President’s proposals, except for article 22. Instead, under the renewed veto of this law, expressed not only in relation to article 22, but also in relation to the new articles that the President of Ukraine had already agreed to before, including articles 1, 10, 12, 14, 19, 20. I mean, by creating a precedent for a permanent review of the norms already voted in the Supreme Council and actually agreed with the President of Ukraine. Therefore, the Committee on Science and Education agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that there is no legal basis for reviewing the articles already voted in the Supreme Council and agreed with the President of Ukraine during the first vote. With some comments from the President of Ukraine, the committee proposes to agree, particularly with regard to, as the deputy minister has said, taking into account proposals for the completion of article 1, the definition of the term of transfer of technology. Exclusion of articles 10, the sentence “according to the budgetary purpose provided for by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine” is indeed contrary to the Code of Budgets. Supplement to Article 20 with the words “special fund. ” With the proposal of the President of Ukraine to delete article 22 “The Speciality of Subsidy of Technology Transfers”, the committee agreed in part. In particular, the committee excluded from this article subsidies that were planned for the value added tax. That is to say, this article has been fully brought into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks. This law, as we know, has already been signed and is in operation. In order to speed up the activities of the transfer and technology sphere, it would be appropriate to include in article 22 the following paragraph: “The procedure for granting targeted subsidies is determined in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks. ” And in this context, in article 1 and article 12, clarify the following content, instead of the words “receiving tax benefits to record receipts of subsidies defined by this Law and instead of the sentence ‘importing’.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u66	In the “Final Positions” the term “acquiring validity” in article 20, changed to “January 1, 2007”. Please support the Ukrainian Law with the comments and suggestions noted in the new edition, taking partial account of the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u67	Yes, the representative of the President's microphone, please. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, faction of Viktor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. I must say that the previous report began “for rest” and ended “for health”. So I am ready to support the final recommendation on acceptance in the new reading. However, I would like to point out that the initial warnings, somehow with reference to the Science and Experimental Authority, are invalid. Once the Law has been adopted in the new edition, it is no longer the previous edition of the Law. And according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, this is being re-examined by the President in full scope. There have been remedies that did not meet the President's proposals and therefore there are no warnings about the President's new comments to this Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption by a committee in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities is put to the vote, taking partial account of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Registration No. 408. Please vote. [[11:28:55]] For 277 The law is passed. The Ukrainian National Property Fund Act, which was proposed by the President of Ukraine since 27 January 2006, is being published. Deputy Justice Minister Mr. Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich. Prepare for the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of the national economy, property and investment of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The proposals had already been considered at the meetings of the Supreme Council, but no decision had been taken on those issues. I've heard it one more time. They've already looked at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u71	I can't hear you. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u72	The committee's proposal to sound?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u73	Just tell me how you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u74	The President's proposal is that, first of all, the prescribed law should be brought into line with the Civil and Economic Code, this refers to the powers of the State Property Fund in the administration of state property, and also new proposals are that the provisions of the Law on the Liberation of the Head of the State Property Fund, as well as the establishment of a five-year term of office, also do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, since the exclusive list of powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on discharge does not provide additional grounds for such dismissal. In addition, the law provides that the deputy heads of the State Property Fund are appointed prime minister of Ukraine, which is also not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, since this is the competence not of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, but of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u75	Thank you, too. Please sit down, Leonid Vasilovich. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko is head of the committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u76	Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ukrainian Company faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to address all those present in this room and those who are in favor of post-privatization and those who are in favour of strengthening the role of the state in economic governance. We need the State Property Fund Act. Its acceptance has been in progress for about eight years. This bill is promised a third time by today’s President, and every time there are new remarks, unfortunately. And most of the claims about the non-compliance of this law of the Constitution of Ukraine are not supported by the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Council, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, sorry, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the other President's remarks were taken into account every once in a while, and they're back in the Supreme Hall, and again today it's about the conceptual disagreement of the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act, the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee considered these observations and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine in order to introduce Ukraine into the State Property Fund Act during this period, which will now be rather uncertain. For there to be any law on the administration of state property. I thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Also the Head of the State Property Fund microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, dear friends! First of all, I want to say that today it's very, very difficult to work in an undefined legal field. First of all, you know that the State Property Fund is doing an inventory of state property objects today. Right now, I'm doing an inventory of inter-economic property. I've also been approached by the unions, and we've also done this work, and we're going to do it, and we're going to finish it. Working on a permanent basis is not just a job, I'd say, for wear, it's just a danger to even state-owned employees. Even the fact that we are dealing with such an investment activity today is of particular importance to us. Because in most cases the investment is not carried out. I have a request for you. Today, the State Property Fund is a structure and directly controlled by you. Request: Maintain the law. Working in an indeterminate way is just going to self-destruct. I'm asking you to uphold this law, because it's impossible to work like this. You know, coming to my reception, I'm meeting your questions, I'm looking at all the questions you need, but I'm saying once again, you need to protect the foundation staff today so you can go to the place, that and the dormitories, that and the boardrooms, that and the boardhouses, to still determine the legal status and preserve what else we can keep in the state. Much will depend on us. It's okay to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Before the vote, I'm sorry. And while you're preparing, I'm going to read one paragraph of the proposal for a law that the President of Ukraine sent to the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the Prime Minister, including the Heads of the State Property Fund and his release from office. Thus, the President supported the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when it took a decision on the government, the Supreme Council. Because now there's a recalculation of paragraph 85 of the 12th. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. Please listen carefully! Regarding the rejection of the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act, registration number 7364. About the deviation. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. [[11:35:46]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The proposal for a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act is now being put to the vote. Registration number 7364. Please vote. [[11:36:17]] For 273 The decision is not taken. The factions. One moment, dear fellows. “Regions of Ukraine” – 38, Communists – 56, People's Party – 39, Block Timoshenko – 39, “Our Ukraine” – 0, SPI-27, National Block – 22, SDPU(o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 1, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, “Afterfraction – 17. Who wants to go back to the law, registration number 7364? [[11:37:06]] For 260 To get back, we had enough votes. I am voting for the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act, registration number 7364. [[11:37:37]] For 260 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Dear colleagues! Can we do this? To suggest once again, if you support, to continue to work, to reconcile positions, perhaps with the Cabinet of Ministers, and to find an acceptable decision on this law, because then we will never return to it again. Is there no objection to such an offer? So let me now put to the vote the return to the consideration of this law. If you support, the committee, along with the State Property Fund, will work with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, perhaps. This is the will of the Supreme Council. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I'm voting on this proposal, please. Take down the vote. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, you can see that we just have the same force in power, that's all. People don't want this law, you can. You, my dear, can accept the commission of the committee today. It is not clear that if there is a new law, he will be in the first reading. We're going to get the fourth veto and until, so there. I'm sorry, as long as this situation goes on, it's complicated, it hasn't been extended yet, so there's no need for law. And all those who voted today were determined. Not for the first time. If there is no veto, the committee accepts any offer that will arise today in the hall. The U.S. doesn't have any suggestions, because all of these remarks by the President are simply, I don't mean to say mockery, there will be insults, but just abuse of common sense, nothing more. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let's make this consensus that we will now see that the State Property Fund and the Committee will work on this law. If they have any suggestions, decisions, we'll get back to it. Is there no objection? Come on. So we don't. so that we do not “burn ” the law. Well, we've already agreed that we'll go back to considering this law. No warning? Well, we'll make a deal. Who's to go back to the draft law? I apologize for coming back to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Property Fund with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.01.2006 with the commission of the Committee and the Ukrainian State Property Fund to make agreed proposals with the government. [[Registration number 7364]] I'm asking you, let's define. [[11:41:04]] For 254 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on State Property Management, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 29 November 2005, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 6027. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economy, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich. Please, Sergey Andryovich. Prepare Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine did not sign the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Act on the Management of Objects of State Property, making such major remarks to him. According to the name of the law and its preamble, the law lays down the legal basis for the administration of property. However, the law contains a series of provisions that are not subject to its legal regulation. Yes, articles 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 are devoted to the establishment and activities of state-owned stockholders, state - owned holding companies, state - owned enterprises, casinos, government agencies, and organizations that are not the settlement of matters involving the management of state - owned property. They are part of the regulation of other legislative acts. The law establishes powers to exercise the rights of the State as owner in the administration of property not only by the authorities of the State but also by other legal and natural persons. In determining the powers of the latter, however, the law prohibits the alienation of only government-given corporate rights. There is no prohibition on the alienation of other State property. Such a law will allow legal and physical persons, in whose administration they are held accountable, to alienate them for their own judgment. The law also empowers the government in Article 5 concerning the owners of the degent, non-state-owned economic organizations that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the appointment of pre-planned checks on financial and economic activities, competitive selection of directors of subsidiaries, management of assets of economic organizations whose statutory fund exceeds 50 percent. The individual provisions of this article and articles 7, 11, 12 violate the principle of equality of all subjects of property rights before the law, the protection by the State of the rights of all subjects of property rights, and the inviolability of private property rights. Part and kind that does not conform to the household code are the lists of state - owned entities, including, among state - owned entities, the definition of sentence and holding, whereas according to article 73 of the Master’s Code, the sentence of the enterprise is a subset of the enterprise. State - owned entities include shares of rations belonging to the State in statutory funds in various forms of property that are defined by the Law as corporate rights. This does not correspond to the Master Code, under which corporate rights are the rights of a person whose share is defined in the statutory fund of an economic organization. Taking into account what has been said, the President proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on State Property Management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u83	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy. At its meeting on January 17, this year, the management of the national economy, property and investment reviewed the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on the Management of National Property Objects, registration number 6027. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law, since he feels that it does not correspond to the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the lack of clear, transparent and controlled arrangements for the administration of public property. But I would also like to point out that on the committee, it was very serious that the position of the Cabinet of Ministers was not understood in this situation. Since the Act adopted on November 1, 2005 “On the administration of public property objects” is essentially a joint work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Note that during the preparation of the bill for the second reading, the committee received from Kabmin proposals that applied practically every article of this Law. And all of them are fully included in the final edition of that Law that we passed. Those national deputies working in the Supreme Council do well to remember that the Supreme Council, starting with the second reading, is trying to regulate the matter in a legislative way, such as the administration of public property. Yet until now, it has failed to complete it. Why? A few clues. It seems that neither the President nor the Government is in need of the Law, which is provided for in article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers administers public property and in accordance with the law. The absence of legislation allows this to be done on the basis of legal regulations, and in fact, by hand. Who would benefit from that? Likewise, I think the people's deputies understand. Now for the President's latest proposals. Regrettably, they don't have the proposals made to improve the individual rules of law, but as always, and this is already in practice, it has been noted before, it is only proposed to reject it. Given that the development and adoption of a new legislative act on the administration of public property objects could take a long time, the committee decided to agree with the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and took into account the President's individual comments by making editorial clarifications in the text of the Act. It is therefore proposed that the bill be adopted in a new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen. Head of the Semenyuk Holding Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! As you've heard from the report, we've worked and taken into account the observations of both the Scientific and Experimental Department and the President's remarks, and we agree on the possibility that the remarks that have been made, we support them, and we ask for a new bill to be voted on. I especially ask, this allows us today to regulate the legal aspects of the management of public property objects by ensuring that both the control of the business and the financial side, and, above all, the assets, and the work of enterprises in accordance with international law. And this will enable us today to manage those objects that are related to the treasury property to state property. And that's the one. This work, which we have already done by inventory of public property. Let's save another one for future generations that we can keep in our country. Please support the law in the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in this order: since the President of Ukraine has proposed to reject this law, the President's proposal is the first to vote. In the event of its non-support, a proposal by the adoption committee will be put to the vote in a new edition, taking partial account of President Ukraine's proposals. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects, registration number 6027. [[11:49:26]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property objects is submitted to the vote in a new edition, taking partial account of President of Ukraine's proposals, registration number 6027. Please vote. [[11:50.]] For 283 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on the Purchase of Goods, Works and Services at State Cost, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 13 January 2006, registration number 8015, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economics, Anatoly Arkadyevich Maksut. Get Klenchenko ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's Act amending the Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense and other legislative acts was adopted by the Supreme Council last December. Regrettably, this law contains unacceptable and unforeseeable consequences and does not properly agree on the development of the functions of public procurement by relying on the Antimonopoly Committee, the Court of Auditors, the Chamber of Commerce of Ukraine, which is in fact a community of public organisations, as well as the full dissemination of the rules on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for all state-owned enterprises, without taking into account any specific features of their functions, which run counter to EU legislation and to general economic satisfaction. In addition, changes made by law to the basic law would result in unjustified financial costs for public funds managers and individual procurement procedures. In particular, the changes to article 4.1, part 7, provide for the deletion of rules on the choice of a customer on competitive information systems that provide information in the field of public procurement and monopolize this area of services. The law also provides for the deletion from article 8 and the text of the words “The Secretary of State Procurement”, which will lead to the de facto liquidation of the public, including outside Ukraine, of an official publication in the field of public procurement, in which announcements of budgetary institutions are published free of charge. As a result, not only does the spending of government officials on publishing announcements in other non-state publications increase unwarrantedly, but there is also a loss of additional control in the area of public procurement and a source of official information to analyse the functioning of public procurement systems. The proposed changes to articles 23, 25, 27 of the law will make it mandatory for participants to purchase tender and enforce the purchase contract, which will also make it more competitive. I want to say that this law has been negatively appreciated not only by Ministry experts but also by the Security Service, by international organizations. It contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine on the basis of the conclusions of the Legal Authority and cannot be accepted in such an order. Thus, the President, by exercising his right, proposes that this law be rejected. It can't be accepted because it's actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u89	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u90	In fact, it's going to lose control of the area of purchases, it's going to go away, and today it's an authorized body that's after the adoption of this law that we're actually not going to see who's actually responsible for it. So we have a government project that we're ready to sit down and work on, but this law has to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Viktorovich Kalichenko, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u92	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We have, as always, heard the Ministry of Economics' subjective opinion about how they feel should happen in our country. But I would like to remind my colleagues, my dear deputies, that by 320 votes, I repeat, by 320 votes in this room, we voted in this whole law as a law. Which, in turn, promotes parliamentary control over government procurement. And with regard to the constitutional principles of parliamentary control, I wanted to point out that since January 1st they have taken on the validity of the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which are particularly expanded and empowered by the Supreme Council, that is, by you and me in the sphere of State procurement control. It's no big deal that an authorized body is planning to be referred to the Antimonopoly Committee, which is accountable to us. And we would like the opinion of 320 people's deputies to be more important than the opinion of several officials of the Ministry of Economics who made remarks to the President to apply the veto. That's why both the committee and the Supreme Council's Science and Research Administration are clearly proposing to overcome the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The president of Ukraine proposes to reject this law, and the committee proposes to overcome the veto. In accordance with the Rules, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds is the first to vote. Registration number 8015. [[11:56:34]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The proposal by the President's veto committee to amend the Ukrainian Act on the purchase of goods, labour services and public funds is put to the vote. Registration number 8015. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:10]] For 314 President's veto to the law, registration number 8015, over. Ladies and gentlemen, a 30-minute recess is announced to 12,28 minutes. I ask the heads of the MPs, the President's representative in Parliament, the representative of the government in Parliament, and the heads of the respective committees to rise on the third floor to participate in the work of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u94	Yes, the honourable colleagues, though few of us, but we will continue the meetings, we will continue the meetings. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. The draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on leave is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 30 December 2005. Reported by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Tótkin Vladimir Ivanovich, prepare for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u95	According to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 15 December 2005, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Vacations cannot be signed by means of the following amendments to article 84 of the Labour Code and articles 9 and 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Vacations provides that scientific and scientific and pedagogical activities abroad are to be carried out on the basis of decisions made by scientists of scientific and technical, technical, scientific and scientific institutions without saving a salary for a period of up to three years. During scientific vacations, the workplace is reserved for employees. It is predicted that if a scientific institution where a scientific or scientific pedagogical worker is working together with an employee of intellectual property rights for an object that will be created by him during a scientific vacation, there will be a salary, but not more than one year. That is, the law that came to the signature of a particular category of workers, namely, scientific and scientific teachers, is given the right to work with domestic scientific institutions during their vacation to carry out scientific and scientific teaching activities abroad and to receive a corresponding reward for this. In practice, this has resulted in unwarranted advantages for designated workers. Such an approach is not in accordance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, in particular, violate the constitutional principles of equality of citizens before the law, the non-admission of privileges or restrictions at all times, article 24. As well as the principle of equal work rights of citizens enshrined in article 2 of the Labour Code. It causes denial and regulation of the law on the preservation of scientific and scientific and pedagogical workers up to 1 year's salary if a scientific institution where a scientist or a science teacher is employed is associated with the employee's intellectual property right to an object that will be created by him during a scientific vacation. It should be noted that the salary is the remuneration that the owner or the authorized authority pays the employee for the work he has done. Its size depends, in particular, on the complexity and working conditions of the employee's professional skills. In view of this, it seems unfounded to pay the paid wages of the employees involved. Moreover, the law does not address the question of how to pay insurance to scientific and scientific teachers when they are on scientific leave and how they are calculated during this period, both in the solidarity system of compulsory state pension insurance and in the course of scientific work. As a result, in practice this will lead to misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u97	As a result of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on leave, the President proposes to reject. Please support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u99	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national MPs, colleagues! You know the situation with scientists in Ukraine today. Many go abroad, there is no normal basis for scientific research. That's why our academic, our colleague, Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky, introduced a bill that envisaged changes to the Vacation Act, and these changes predicted that, according to a decision of a scientific council or a scientific and technical council, or a scientific institution, a scientist who goes to a scientific internship is granted a vacation of up to three years. And then Igor Rafailovich suggested that if it was created abroad when a scientist came and did scientific work, a common intellectual property was created, that is, some scientific development of our fellow scientists with scientists in that institution, where he was interned abroad, should be left with the scientist for a year. I mean, he created individual property, it pays off, and that's what he had to do. Surely such a bill would encourage our scientists to train abroad and would allow us to earn, let's say, for the institute or for the scientist himself, and that would be a good incentive, but the President vetoed it. I want to draw on the President's motivation, and I want all the scientists in Ukraine to hear it, and all the scientists as president and government care about our scientists. See the first motive. It turns out that vacations are fundamental in regulating vacation issues. [[I read from what the President wrote]] Holidays are given to workers to restore their productivity, to strengthen their health, to raise their children or to satisfy their own vital needs and interests, not to carry out work abroad. Surprisingly, the President has not known for many years that there has been a law on the granting of scientific leave to complete the candidate's dissertation, the doctor's dissertation, the writing of monographs. This system exists. Our colleague Yukhnowsky only suggested that we encourage our scientists to stay abroad every year to pay if intellectual property is created. Next. Next motivation. You can't pay, the President thinks, on a scientific vacation abroad and pay a year for a major job because there, abroad, you see, scientists get a lot of money. What if he doesn't get big money? What if he only came for an internship? Did you come on a trip? So this scientist can't be paid for a year, it's not that big a sum. So, your honorary colleagues, in order to support our scientists who are going abroad, who are doing scientific research, are returning to Ukraine, our committee, the committee on social policy and work is proposing that you overcome the President's veto. There can be no other way. The president didn't make any other proposals. If we don't get through the President's veto, we just can't support our scientists who are being interned abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u100	I'm just clarifying. It's not the President's proposal to beat the veto, it's your proposal. The president made an offer to reject it. So you don't assign to the President what he didn't do. No questions for Stoyan. We'll vote. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on leave. Registration number 5710. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:38]] For the 17th. For 17, including some factions that would not want to do so. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto on the Ukrainian Act to amend some Ukrainian legislation on vacations. Registration number 5710. Please vote. [[12:40:16]] For 158. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 49, Communists - 46, People's Party - 11, Block Timoshenko - 14, Our Ukraine - 0, Soccer - 15, People's Block Lithuania - 19, Social Democrats - 01, Ukrainian People's Party, Rebirth Party, People's Movement of Ukraine - 14, Industrial and Business Parties, Reforms and Orders - 0, "Afterfractional" - 4. [[United]] Well, that's support. What other suggestions on the committee? Please, Stoyan, the microphone. Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the law is really serious, it affects the science of our scientists in Ukraine, the committee would ask, well, given the situation that many of our leaders are now on the board of factions and some deputies at the council, perhaps they would return to it on Thursday or, say, in a week and try to overcome the veto. I think the President has already realized that we must support the scientists of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u102	Now, I'm going to put it to a vote, but on the Conciliation Council, a small number, the faction leaders of only 14 factions. So they don't determine the results of our vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to this bill on Thursday. Please vote. [[12:42:07]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The Ukrainian Act on the Food System of Workers with the President's Proposals has been under consideration since 13 January 2006. Registration number 6044. The first deputy minister of finance is Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, the President of Ukraine applied the veto to the adopted Law by the Supreme Council on the Staff Feeding System for the following reasons. First, the Law provides for the granting of tax benefits to operators and individuals, such as those related to release, purchase, use of gift cards and food cards. It is suggested that taxes on added costs should not be taxed, nor should employers pay taxes on the purchase of gift cards and cards for hired workers, nor should they be taxed on the profits of businesses. The cost of food received by an employee, except according to food stamps and cards, is not included in the monthly tax income nor taxed on the income of a natural person. Such benefits will result in losses not only to the state budget but also to local budgets and deductions to the Pension Fund. In particular, it is estimated that losses to the Pension Fund can amount to about 6 billion dollars. In addition, the requirements for the food supply provided for by this law are, in fact, a substitute for the money involved in the diet. At the same time, less than a year, there are no means of protecting such a gift that will, of course, make them vulnerable to counterfeiting and, as a result, lead to abuses in their circulation. It is also unwarranted that the law provides a complex mechanism for the organization of food for workers. So the very essence of this law, in our opinion, and the scientific expertise of the Supreme Council is not justified. In particular, this applies to the accreditation of food and retail establishments, the licensing of the production of gift cards and food cards, their release, the organization of circulation and the purchase of vouchers, the introduction of card exchanges, their accounting and the control of their circulation. That is, a complex system is proposed that can now be regulated by the availability of money and the conclusion of appropriate food contracts. Therefore, a request to support the President’s proposal and to reject and repeal this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u104	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Bondarchuk Committee of Profiles, Alexander Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u105	Dear President, the People's Deputies! On 22 December last year, the Supreme Council adopted the Food System Act on second reading. Under this law, the State has encouraged the food system of workers, recognizing that such activities are designed to preserve the health of workers, increase productivity and ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to an adequate standard of living. This system also worked in Soviet times. It is now in force in Western democracy in Europe, where the State, by adopting a special concessional tax on activities aimed at providing food services to workers. Regrettably, President Yushchenko imposed a veto on the bill and, as the previous rapporteur had said, argued that his actions would be reduced in the budget. But first, budget cuts may indeed be, but for that we are adopting a special law that is fixed. Such activities can be stimulated by reduced taxes on the income of individuals, on profits and on value added gains. With regard to another argument on the possibilities of falsification of issued coupons, he did not support the criticism of that argument, since the issuer who would issue those coupons understood that he himself would be financially, materially responsible for possible counterfeiting, so he would apply the necessary number of safeguards for such documents. With regard to the complexity of the system proposed. It's a simple system. An employee receives a gift from a gift shop, and with these coupons he can go to either a cafe, a dining room or a grocery store, lunches, breakfasts. On 8 February, the Committee considered the President's proposals and decided to break the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u106	One minute, Sergey Shevchuk, please, the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a very interesting example of our legislation. In the first reading and second reading, the bill went under the heading as urgent. It was the President of Ukraine who suggested that the draft law should be considered first. Between the first and the second readings, the bill did not change substantially, including several dozen amendments. And after the Supreme Council adopts this bill in the second reading, the President suddenly imposes a veto. Such logic is simply a surprise, especially when it comes to the health of Ukrainians, to malnutrition, which is chronic, especially the working Ukrainians. I think we should get together today and beat the President's veto. As far as I know, the President is also changing his mind about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u108	Let's be clear. I am putting the President's first motion to vote, namely to reject the Ukrainian Workers' Food System Act, registration number 6044. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:49:42]] For-12. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal of the President's veto committee for the Ukrainian Workers' Food System Act, registration number 6044. Please vote. [[12:50:17]] For-188. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” - 49, Communists - 54, People's Party - 12, Block of Timoshenko - 21, Our Ukraine - 0, Socialists - 19, People's Block of Lithuania - 18, Social Democrats - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, Rebirth - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Reforms and Orders - 0, non-fractional - 2. [[United]] Let us vote back on this issue. Please vote. It takes 226 votes. [[12:51:11]] For 181 The law is rejected. The veto of the President of Ukraine is being reviewed under the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, registration number 4389-1. Reported by Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich, Deputy Justice Minister. Prepare Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u109	Honourable National MPs, due to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, have in practice encountered a number of problems regarding the state registration of non-profits, in particular religious organizations, namely: the establishment of double registrations by the subject under this law and special legislation, and as a result of the increase in the registration period, the significant complexity of the acquisition of legal status, the double application of registration fees. The law that came to the President's signature did not fully remove this colossal. Instead, the law, along with the registration of the statutes of religious communities, district, Kiev, Sevastopol, municipal public administrations in accordance with the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, introduces them into the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Justice. This situation has had a negative impact on the implementation by citizens of the part of article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the right to freedom of worship, which includes the freedom to engage in collective worship and ritualism and to engage in religious activities without hindrance. It also does not correspond to part 2 of the basic law mentioned above, whereby the exercise of this right can be restricted by law, only in the interests of protecting public order, public health, and morals, or protecting the rights and freedoms of others. In connection with the statement, the President proposes that the law be revised in part of the procedure for the registration of religious communities and that a mechanism be envisaged to exclude the double registration of such communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, I can't see the slappina. Who in the Committee can do so on matters of industrial politics and entrepreneurship? There's no one here. So, it's the respectable colleagues. As you have heard, the President's proposals are that he suggests we clarify certain positions, and the committee has agreed to the President's proposals. That is why I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, registration number 4389-1 in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[12:54:49]] For 186 The factions. “Ukraine’s Regions” – 40, Communists – 55, People’s Party – 14, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 18, Socialists – 13, “Lithuania’s People’s Block” – 10, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 4, “Rebirth” – 3, People’s Movement – 11, Industrial and Business Party – 8, “Reforms and Orders” – 6, “Affection – 4. [[United]] Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please vote. [[12:55:37]] For 172 We're not back. The law is rejected. I would like to stress, once again, that the committee has agreed to the President's proposals, but those forces that support him do not want to vote. It's their right. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, I've got a bill on my hands. We should be looking at it right now. That's right, we skipped a bill, we're going back to it. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Provision of State Assistance to Child Care until it reaches the age of three with the President's proposals of 10 January 2006. Registration number 6464. Reported to Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Hotch Helen Vasilovna. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Before the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 22 December 2005, the President of Ukraine made the following proposals. The law that regulates the provision of care for children up to the age of 3 in article 14 stipulates that in the event of the return of an insured person, in the case of a child's mother, the payment of assistance is suspended and carried out by the person who takes care of the child. At the same time, the norm that regulates the issue of payment of assistance in the same case for an uninsured woman who has not worked or cared for her children continues when her return to work. In order to unify and establish a single approach to the payment of such assistance, the President proposes to provide assistance to the caregiver. The scientific and expert office supported the President's proposal as a whole. At the same time, she stressed that a proposal could be considered to extend the payment to a woman who works part - time or works at home. We think that's an offer. deserves attention and can be accompanied by a committee corresponding to the Supreme Council and a government already worked under another law. Thank you for your attention and please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Yes, please, Alexander Bondarchuk, Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u113	Dear President, the People's Deputies! Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour considered the proposal of the President on 10 January 2006 to the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Provision of State Assistance for Child Care until it reaches its three-year-old age, and decided to accept the President's proposal to clarify article 42 of the Law on State Assistance for Child Care. He proposes to support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, here the committee of profile has concluded that we must agree with the President's proposals and support them. That's why I'm voting: on the adoption of the President's proposal to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the provision of state aid to care for a child until it reaches its three-year-old age. Registration number 6464. Please vote against the President's proposals. [[13:00:24]] For 301 Some say that the hands are not enough. The law was passed in a new order. The Ukrainian Act on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productions, which form part of a comprehensive property complex of companies producing sugar, is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since December 27. [[single]] Registration number 6113. First Deputy Minister of Economy Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich will report. Prepare Oleg Yuhnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u115	The Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 1st 2005 approved the Law of Ukraine on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Essential Productions, which form part of the entire property complexes of companies producing sugar. The Law was approved on October 18 of last year. In the new edition, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine are not taken into account. The changes apply only to the periods of the ban on alienation: January 1, 2008, was replaced by January 1, 2007. The law proposes that by January 1st of the following year a ban on the alienation of immovable property, sugar - producing objects and the Cabinet of Ministers develop a comprehensive programme for the restructuring of sugar factories, presupposing that they are re-classified, a procedure for the disposal of non-restructuring enterprises. The prohibition of estranged objects, as well as the absence of provisions in the Law concerning the obligation to agree with owners of sugar factories, their restructuring, is contrary to the basic principles of Ukrainian legislation regarding guarantees of private property rights. Of the total number of sugar plants owned by the state, there are only 2 left today. The Constitution of Ukraine declares the integrity of the right of private property and the right of everyone to have his or her own right to his or her own judgment. In addition, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’s mandate to implement a comprehensive restructuring programme goes beyond what is defined by the Government in article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine for the administration of objects solely of state ownership. On the basis of the above, he proposes to accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine regarding the rejection approved by the Supreme Council, the Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Sergey Andryovich, please sit down. Yukhnowsky Oleg? None. Who from the profile committee can say? None. Well, then let the Head of Staff express his position as a profile committee. The decision signed by the committee head, Tomic, says that the committee is proposing to defeat the President's veto. In that order, I'll put it to a vote. The President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productives, which form part of the entire property complex of companies producing sugar, is put to the vote. Registration number 6113. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:17]] For-67 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, we are all with you in the constituencies, especially today. What a price for sugar, we all see very well. Who sets this price? Monopolist in the face of those who stretched out sugar factories. Let's help a little bit to make sure that something is stopped and left in the hands of the state or companies that can produce this sugar and sell it a little bit cheaper. I am voting on the proposal of the veto committee for the Ukrainian Act on the temporary prohibition of the alienation of immovable property and other basic means of production, which form part of the whole single assets of companies producing sugar. Registration number 6113. Please vote. [[13:05:26]] For 211 The factions. The Party of Regions – 48, Communists – 55, People's Party – 22, Block of Timoshenko – 31, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 20, National Block of Lithuania – 16, Social Democrats – 16, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 1, National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Reforms and Orders” – zero, non-fractional – 2. [[United]] I'm voting on a motion to return to this bill. I suggest I'm an MP like you. Please vote. [[13:06:19]] For 205 Not accepted. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regionalities of Ukraine - 43, Communists - 53, National Party - 25, Block of Timoshenko - 27, Our Ukraine - 0, Socialist Party - 17, National Block of Lithuania - 19, Social Democrats - 18, Ukrainian People's Party, Rebirth, People's Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Reforms and Orders - 0, non-fractional - 3. [[United]] The Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of the Import into Ukraine of Meat and Birds Products, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 8290, is under consideration. Deputy Minister of Agriculture Pabat Viktor Alexiovich. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Law banning imports of meat and poultry products into Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 December 2005, cannot be signed by the President for this very reason. First. In accordance with the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, restrictions or prohibitions on the export, import and transit of animals and animal products are referred to the competence of the Ukrainian State Department of Veterinary Medicine. The other one. The Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act restricts or prohibits imports of food products of animal origin from certain countries or zones within certain countries if the outbreak is confirmed under the “MEB” list can also be applied by the State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine. Thus, the order of restrictions or prohibitions on imports of food products of animal origin should the outbreak be confirmed is already clearly defined by two laws of Ukraine. In addition, the legal ban on imports of meat and poultry products into Ukraine does not meet the requirements of the agreement on sanitary and phytosanitary measures to be taken in WTO countries. The project, at the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, decided to reject the law. Therefore, in summary of the foregoing, I ask you, honourable deputies, to make a judgmental decision and to reject this Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u118	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic from the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u119	John Tomic, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, reviewed President of Ukraine's proposals for a law on the introduction of a moratorium on imports into Ukraine of meat and food sub-products from rural birds. The introduction of the mentioned moratorium is due to the spread of avian influenza in neighbouring countries with Ukraine and the risk of the introduction of this disease into Ukraine. To date, however, this issue has been addressed by the Ukrainian Food and Food Safety Act, which places State control on the Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine. Thus, the issue of the ban on imports of food products of animal origin is now regulated if the outbreak of disease is confirmed. Thus, the Agrarian Policy Committee, by a majority of votes, proposes that the law be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u120	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. We have recently listened to the Minister of Agrarian Politics, who says we have enough meat. So let's take care of our manufacturer, why take him abroad? I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports of Meat and Birds Products in Ukraine, registration number 8290. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:11:11]] For-26 I'm voting on the proposal to defeat the veto on this law. Please vote. Let's protect our cocks. [[13:11:35]] For 148 Yes. It's bad luck. Who's in favour of coming back to this bill's consideration and asking for a vote? [[13:12:02]] For-170. According to factions: "Regions of Ukraine" - 31, Communists - 54, National Party - 17, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 3, Socialists - 27, "National Block of Lithuania" - 20, Social Democrats - 17, Ukrainian People's Republic, "Rebirth", National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, non-fractional - 1. [[United]] We're looking at the Ukrainian Animal Protection Against Cruelty Act with the President of Ukraine's 27th December proposals. Registration number is 3175. Yeah. Please, Ignatenko Pavel Mikolaiovich. Protecting the environment and preparing Rudenko
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! I want to thank you for your understanding of the problem of legislation and protection against cruel behaviour, and then for the humanization of Ukrainian society. Before the final drafting of the Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruelty, apart from the authors of the bill of National Deputies: The National Deputies of Ukraine were involved: Masters, Komar, Zubec, Korsakov and other Ukrainian National Deputies and Specialists of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, scientists and specialists of the Faculty of Biology of the Kyiv National University of Chevchenka. Specialists from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, taking into account the results of environmental organizations and the public. President of Ukraine's proposals of December 27, 2005 on Law 3175 were adopted on December 1, 2005, if you remember, concerning the clarification of a number of terms, the introduction of a rule that regulates the issue of the legality of property acquisition by the seller of wild grass; the mandatory presentation of animal documents at the request of internal affairs authorities; and the clarification of the conditions for the acquisition of dogs belonging to increased aggressiveness, which is particularly important. You know, what happened in the country, in Kiev with aggressive breeds of dogs. The refinement of the law will allow to ensure that animals are fully humane in their use in scientific experiments in performances and sporting activities, in animalry, and in view of animals as living creatures in need of human care and sensitivity. In an updated version of the law, it should be part of legislation on animal life, humanitarian and environmental legislation as a whole. Additional expenditures from the Ukrainian State Budget or local budgets do not require improved legislation. The Animal Protection Act is designed to strengthen the humanity of society, the civilized attitude of humans toward animals, and to protect the needs of animals, ethics, and the environment. The need to work on the law was confirmed by the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Deputies! I very much ask you to insist now on the law, the law is almost holy. Please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u122	Thank you. I hope you've convinced them. Paul Mikolaiovich, please. Hennady Borisovich Rudenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Deputies! Let's be consistent. We voted on the basis of 242 votes in favour of the bill in 21.09.2004, 08.09-252 votes in favour and, in general, 269 votes in favour of the President on 1.12.2005. We have accepted many of the President's proposals except for some. Especially. I will note that there have been new comments that were not made on the first promise, and we believe that this is a failure of the secretariat of the President’s Administration. Thus, paragraph 7 of the “Proposal” states that the provisions of article 24 of the Law on the Conservation of Deprived Homeless Animals for 7 days on quarantined sites of specialized services and their return to owners do not correspond to the provisions of the Constitution on the protection by the State of the rights of all property subjects and the Civil Code on the periods of acquisition of ownership of homeless animals. On the contrary, we believe that there is an article 24 of the law that does not deal with property issues, and it refers to temporary isolation, which is carried out with the aim of carrying out quarantine measures and protecting the environment and the owner himself from life - threatening and health - related consequences of contact with a sick animal. In addition, the provisions of article 13, part 3, and article 42, part 7, of the Constitution of Ukraine set limits on the use of property that can harm society’s interests and aggravate the environmental situation. The Committee also considers that there is a groundless and uncompromising proposal to determine the status and competence of bodies that will conduct biosterilization or auto-nazis, as well as the order in which they are to be carried out. The law states that animal surgery is carried out by specialists in veterinary medicine and that the identification of another organ is considered irrelevant. I repeat, with most of the suggestions we have agreed and with the editorial regulations they are taken into account, so we propose to support the Committee's proposed edition of the Ukrainian Law on Animal Protection against Cruelty to the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u124	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Everyone has a cat or a dog or something at home. Right now we're gonna check out who doesn't. I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Animal Protection Against Cruelty Act, taking into account the President's proposals in the new edition. Registration number 3175. Please vote. [[13:18:34]] For 267 Thank you. The law is passed. We have dealt with you, as always, wisely. Here we go to the section “About the return to consideration of previously unsupported issues”. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal: to go back to the previously unsupported issue of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 9015. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:30.]] For 186 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 0, People's Party – 19, "Our Ukraine" – 37, Block Timoshenko – 17, SPI – 21, Socialists – 20, "National Block of Lithuania" – 17, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, "Rebirth" – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, Industrial and Business Parties – 9, "Reforms and Orders" – 13, "Afterfraction" – 7. Yes, please write down what suggestions. Three minutes. Please show me. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u125	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, television audiences! The government is once again stretching the law on return, or giving NATO troops the opportunity to be in Ukraine, to conduct training, and then to see if we can eventually involve Ukraine in NATO. The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions is clear: we are against Ukraine's accession to NATO, so we will not vote in favour of this law. And please remove it from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u126	Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u127	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Respectable radio audiences. We know very well with you that in NATO we will not receive money and no one will give us new jobs when we join NATO. This is a structure that promotes the interests of the United States of America, a pair of three rich countries in the world to the markets of countries, so to speak, developing countries to which Ukraine is referring today. Therefore, the Communist Party of Ukraine opposes Ukraine's accession to NATO with an off-block status, opposes the provision of our territory, including airspace, for use by the NATO troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u128	Please, Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u129	I ask you to pass the word to Leonid Czernovetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u130	Please, Leonid Chernowitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u131	Dear Chairman, People's Deputies and those who listen to us, Our Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. I believe that this law must be supported and those who vote against this Act are voting for the exercises that took place earlier when we had a rocket in the house in Brovar and in the direction of it, and when we had knocked down planes from other States. Let NATO teach us how to use military equipment for their own money. Because an independent Ukraine needs its army. And cooperation has never been a hindrance to anyone. And if, of course, the problem with our heads is that NATO is going to eat us up with our weapons, it's going to send him to Russia somewhere else. That's bullshit. It's for those who vote. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u132	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u133	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about joining NATO. This is well understood by those who mentioned NATO today. It's different, it's military training, it's military training. To ensure that the Ukrainian Armed Forces were properly trained, there would be no such thing as what we observed over the Black Sea, in the Barbara and other matters, when the unwitting terrorist in Ukraine was a Ukrainian soldier. I'm sorry. The aim is to increase the experience of Ukrainian soldiers. So it is absolutely necessary to vote in favour of this bill, but, Adam Ivanovich, given that there are few people in the room who are currently in the Conciliation Council and many national deputies on the Conciliation Council, I would ask that we consider this question when there are enough national MPs in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the recent vote has shown that there is quite enough rooming because we have gained more than 300. It's not about quantity, you know. 401 card. You're more likely to vote. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u135	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] I'd like to deny the previous speaker. What are they offering us? Approval of the President's decision to allow other States' military forces to enter Ukraine. So I go to all the residents in the region of Lviv and in the Crimea and wherever you want: it is tomorrow that the troops will come here, roughly speaking, to follow in the territory, and our children, and our grandchildren will later be paid with their health for their stay. Please tell me, have you ever seen any powerful, rich people in other states who just throw money in the wind? Thus, millions of dollars are paid for such training in Ukraine to prevent their troops from conducting such training in their territory. Therefore, no vote can be taken. And whether Ukraine is in NATO or not, this will be decided by the referendum, whether the President wants it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u136	Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u137	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear National Deputies! As early as November 21, 2002, during the presidency of Leonid Kuchma, one day before the approval of Viktor Yanukovič as Prime Minister, the Supreme Council passed a decree recommending parliamentary hearings on relations and cooperation between Ukraine and NATO, which was supported by most of the regions and 90 per cent of the MPs. On June 19, 2003, the National Security Act of Ukraine was again referred to in article 8, on cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty. Among the 319 deputies who supported the adoption of this law were 41 out of 46 Party of Regions, 34 out of 37 out of SDPU. In fact, on March 17, 2004, NATO was again referred to in the memorandum, and 24 deputies from the Party of the Regions were referred to in the memorandum, 29 – SDPU(o).
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u138	Yes, in exchange for the thoughts that have been heard, I am once again putting a motion to the vote. Who's to go back to the draft law on approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training? Registration number 9015. [[13:27:18]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 1, People's Party – 20, Block of Timoshenko – 33, “Our Ukraine” – 35, Socialists – 20, “National Block of Lithuania” – 17, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Rebirth” – 16, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, “Reforms and Orders” – 13, non-fractional – 10. [[United]] Two factions, the regions of Ukraine and the Social Democrats, are asking for breaks. [[United]] Or, or. Yes, please, Gregory Kaletnik, three minutes please, and we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u139	Honorable National MPs. The abnormal system of functioning of the power vertical, built on double standards, double morals, separation of friends and others, has proved to be total mass layoffs in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, and tens of thousands of experts have been thrown into the streets. A party of regions today claims another crime of power, which has already been committed to beating up children from higher education in defense of its illegal activities. Yes, yesterday, February 20th, to prevent the court's decision to reopen at the work of the Rector of the National Academy of Ukraine, Peter Melnik, an illegal force was organized against the physical police officers, who applied tear gas and oaks against the students of the academy only because they applauded and cheered upon the return of their chancellor, Peter Melnick. Six boys and girls were so severely injured that they were forced to consult doctors. This case has once again confirmed violations of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, failure to comply with the decisions of the court, denial of all rights and freedoms of citizens, these are typical signs and methods of action of today's authorities. In the Ministry of Internal Affairs, even pregnant women are dismissed. The head of Dombrowski’s Vinnicka observatories released a woman whose three children were raised and for more than six months did not make several court decisions. In Kamyanec-Podilska, on February 20, a citizen of Sergei Ambrosev was arrested for refusing to leave the list of candidates for the Party of Regions. I'd like to remind Mr. Lucenka of his words that he justified the criminal orders and actions of the militia in masks that brutally beat up the national MP, the woman, the teacher, the hero of Ukraine, Tamar Proscuratov. You said then, Mr. Lucenka, that the police were ensuring the execution of a court order. Why, yesterday in the case of a re-establishment decision at the National Academy Rector's Office, your branch of the Berkut has turned out to be on the other side of the court's demands. A party of regions is calling on Ukrainian national deputies to support the following requirements to the President. First. Punish the perpetrators of the savage beating of the students immediately. Second, to stop the persecution of Ukrainian citizens on political grounds, to remove Mr. Kiriev from the duties of the Head of the DPA, to remove from the duties of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Lucenk. Fifth, to entrust the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, headed by the national deputy Musiak, to investigate the incident that took place in the territory of the National Academy on February 20, and to provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by March 17. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u140	I don't know, I did, but yesterday I saw amateur footage, that it was there, that our state doesn't usually look beautiful. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine is under consideration. No, no, that's not it. Thus, under the reduced procedure, registration number 8468 of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. [[on the limitation of wages in kind]] Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy of John Natalia Ivanovna, prepare Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed for your consideration is intended to limit in-kind wage payments to 30 percent of the monthly salary. The current law stipulates that a collective agreement, as an exception, may provide for partial payment of salary in kind at prices that do not exceed the cost in both areas, or for those professions where such payment is normal, or desirable for employees, except for goods that are approved by the government. This proportion is now 50 percent in line with current legislation and was introduced in 2002. Legislative restrictions have produced positive results. For example, if in 2000 the economy as a whole paid wages in kind amounted to 1.2 percent of the labour fund, in agriculture as a whole 12.6 percent, in 9 months last year, for which we have statistical observations, these figures are correspondingly 0.3 percent, and in agriculture 1.3 percent, i.e. virtually 10 times less than in 2000. The government is convinced that further legislative restrictions on the part of the pay paid in kind will have a positive impact on the increase in labour guarantees for workers, the increase in the financial income of the population at the appropriate level of living of the population. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Professional Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u142	Thank you, Natalia Ivanovna, sit down, please. Mr. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u143	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear colleagues! We remind you that a few years ago, and now we can see when we go to the districts, how much children's toys are sold on the streets, peaches, screws, buckets, everything you want. I mean, people get, not money, but nature. Some progress has been made in the days of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Then it was decided that no more than 50 percent should give in goods, in kind, and 50 percent in cash. Now there's an opportunity to make as many people as possible get in money terms, they can figure out what they need to buy. Therefore, the government has made a proposal to replace the “50” number in the Labour Pay Act with “30” and thus, in accordance with the collective agreement with employers, it should be noted that in nature workers can receive no more than 30 per cent of everything else by money. It's going to be social justice. But in large numbers, this shameful practice, when the payment goes partly in kind, has to be abolished. A person should be given a decent salary for his work, and then he could buy whatever kind of product he wanted for his salary. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Work requests that the bill be adopted on a basis and as a whole. But given the concern shown by the President and today's government about Ukrainian citizens, I doubt that this law will be signed. It's gonna be vetoed again. But let's still support this law today and we'll take it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u144	I'm reminded that this is a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers that will support the President. So there won't be a veto. Shall we discuss it? Then I put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. [[on the limitation of wages in kind]] Registration number 8468. Please vote. [[13:36:21]] For 285 If there is no objection, may we support the committee in general as a law? You won't? Here's one sentence: not 50 percent of the pay, but 30 percent. I think it's a humane decision. We vote in general as a law. Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. [[on the limitation of wages in kind]] Registration number 8468. Please vote. [[13:37:03]] For 307 The law is passed. Veto won't. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 is under consideration. [[on the allocation of funds from the privatization of VAT "Croat-Croat Metallurgical Combine "Crioristal" to finance measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings in institutions of the former USSR Savings Bank]] Registration number 8676. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich reports. Prepare the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! It is likely that society has already assessed how the commitments made in Maidan are being fulfilled, as returned to the Crookryzstall, specifically and exclusively to the Ukrainian people. It's already happened. We are now witnessing the fact that the Ministry of Finance, the government repeatedly assures that the money from the “Criminal” is on a special treasury account that they are untouchable and are waiting for their use. If so, it would probably be in place of Yushchenk and his bankrupt team, his bankrupt government, which is only capable of selling everything as a bad landlord, because only a bad landlord sells property, and in only two cases: when the owner of the property has died, or when the bankrupts have died. And it is today's bankruptcys that cover the costs of the “Criminals, ” the national funds, their debts. We are making a proposal, although in part to do what was said: to pay the money to those who actually belonged to the “Cruvoristal”. Send them to pay off the savings of the USSR. Regrettably, there are only nine and a half billion dollars left. Let's at least give the money that's left over to our citizens today. I think they deserve to get their share of those big, big, record sums that have been received from privatizing the national metal giant. Once again, I would like to point out that the authorities failed to comply with their commitments to the 2005 State Budget and had to send 14 and a half billion dollars to pay off the debts it had made in 2005. This is the price of the ability and ability of modern - day orange officials to work in power. They promised that the people's interests would be central and that today's so-called authority would do everything in their power to raise the welfare of citizens and to pay the debts and obligations of the State to the people. There is no greater obligation than to repay our contributors to Sberbank's former USSR. Today is the moment of truth. We can find out who is for the people and who is for the people! We can vote and find out who really wants to help our citizens today. There is still a unique possibility. Today we can lose her forever. Thank you, let's help our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u146	Yes, dear fellows, according to your lively response, I see that the Law will be upheld. Yes, from the Suprun Committee? I can't see. Then let me introduce you to the committee's unique decision. This decision may not have been made by another committee. As a result of the foregoing, there is much to be said. “The draft text cannot be accepted.” Next sentence: “At the same time, no decision has been taken by the Committee on Budget Issues on the basis of the bill.” Signature: “the acting head of the committee, Suprun”. Did anyone realize that the committee had accepted? It's hard to understand, I don't even understand. Is that how we'll discuss it? Shall we? Please, Terrence, prepare for Garden. [[Taran]] The garden of Santa Claus. I'm glad you're next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u147	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz's faction. As for the savings of the population of Ukraine, which was made in 1991-92, mostly in the years. This is certainly a crime committed by the State against its citizens. If you think of anything from history, we've been told about it. That these savings remained somewhere else in Russia, but, in fact, if we get this out of the way, these savings haven't disappeared anywhere. Of course, in the form of loans, or in the form of other appropriate financial transactions, they were taken into commercial structures. These commercial structures were strengthened, and everything was then done to make sure that these costs and traces were lost. That's how it came to be. Instead of making adequate calculations in the State budget and long ago calculating savings that are undervalued and left in debt in the state, unfortunately, and in the Supreme Council and in the government, none of these issues have been done. You may recall what Alexander Moroz did in his own time as Head of the Supreme Council to acknowledge these savings as a sovereign debt. And thank God that this has been done, and that even today the state owes the population the payment of these savings. With regard to the money received from the trades in Krivoriztal, there is no doubt that there is not much of it left, about nine billion dollars, and it is reasonable to pay back at least to the population in order to at least partially repay the debts that exist today. But that's half the job. The job is to ensure that both parliament and the government do their utmost to compensate for the full compensation of those savings that, unfortunately, the State, along with the privatisation that was done with these processes, has taken these costs to the citizens. Therefore, we will support the bill, and socialists are meant to mitigate the issue of savings that have been taken from the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u148	Basil Nadrag, please follow him, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u149	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues! I think you will agree with me that today the authors of their bill raise a topic which, with a certain frequency in this room, arises quite consistently. And you know, listening to the authors, listening to the conclusions, studying the material, there's only one question: Why haven't you and I received anything from the government so far? Why is it that, unfortunately, all the bills that propose differently, under different options, to address the issue of the return of citizens to the former Soviet Union Bank, are not worked out or made as final proposals by the executive branch. And we are constantly considering some of the bills on behalf of the MPs. Here's the bill today, it has both its positive and its negative features. And I think it would be more appropriate to consider a more technological, more correctly drafted bill, which is sponsored by my colleague in the Lithuanian People's House, Fomenco Ekaterina Alexandrovna. Why? Because normal things are laid down there, it is written down and the rule of law assumes that the State takes this into domestic debt, the State takes this as its obligation by the corresponding variations of the decision, the annual decision. And not the mechanisms that we're offered for 20, 30, 100 years, but literally for 12 years, depending on age. I'm the investor. Older ones — sooner or later — will be able to recover their money. Similarly, a mechanism is in place to ensure that those wishing may be at some cost, but at least most of the amount owed to them by the debt of the bank could be obtained by the citizens. That is to say, in the end, one thing can be said that, unfortunately, all the discussions on the contributions of the population are faced with the unwillingness of the executive branch, in which case the current Government is no exception, to address the issue systematically, to resolve the issue in those foreseeable options of the future when it is not necessary to wait 50 years for those debts to be repaid. Therefore, based on this logic, we also discussed this bill at a meeting of the factions of the People's bloc of Lithuania. And we believe that this subject must be raised and raised in this way and found such solutions, including with the executive power, so that our citizens do not sit and wait for the next time, under which the next election will tell them that they will return the savings that, unfortunately, the executive power will not return and will not. That's why I think this bill raises the situation correctly. It makes it absolutely reasonable for the State to pay attention to its responsibilities to its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u150	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u151	Dear compatriots, distinguished members of the bourgeois Parliament, above all, gentlemen of the millions, I address you. The debt of the State of Ukraine to workers amounts to more than 130 billion grevens. Every year, 200 million returns were made in the budget, then 500, then promised to return in part through housing and utilities, but this proved to be “Filka’s letter”, unfortunately. Therefore, if this is settled as it was before, for some 200 years, there will be 250 hundred from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fate of the destitute people, especially before the elections. The second moment I would like to address. We have in Ukraine, this published official data, there are five respectable gentlemen of the dollar billionaires. We have a 2-3-fold increase in the number of millions of incomes per year, and now in Ukraine, by income, not property, we have more than two and a half million. And if we have 136 billion dollars worth of money to the population, I want to ask you, what is that money that was put into the government bank, it's just there like the cubes were lying there? Nope. They worked in a large State of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and they were transformed into factories, factories, steamships and missile shields of our family. Where's the missile shield? Where, in whose hands, are factories, factories, and steamboats? Gentlemen, the current President Yushchenko has spoken of sharing the rich with the poor. Is it time to share? Not only are these contributions proposed in such bills. My colleague said, "There are nine billion grevens left of the Creatures, the rest of them are unknown." That's right, with a lousy sheep, even though it's a fur ball, let's give back at least nine billion bracelets. Our faction supports such a bill. Of course, he's political, he doesn't solve all the problems that come after the debt is repaid. But I'm still saying, with a lousy bourgeois capitalist sheep, at least a hairy kangaroo! That's why I, the respected parliamentarians, am a bourgeois group! Vote for this bill - I will not vote, I will do anything to make the people know who and how to vote, what faction and what MP. I promise you that!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u152	Yes. Ivan. Please, Leonid Cherniewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u153	Dear Chairman! Respectable people's deputies and those who listen to us! Leonid Chernovetski, Our Ukraine. I believe that the bill, which has been put forward to make more money than the sale of Crimsonstalls, reach our voters who need money in their pockets. That's a good bill, that's a good idea. But an even better idea is the idea that I propose that, including the people's deputies and. Here, my colleague has been speaking with a lousy bourgeois sheep, better with a lousy Communist MP sheep to break all the privileges she has assigned herself, and since 1990, all that people know is that as long as the KPSS, KPU, there and others have enjoyed it has gone to all the rest of the power structures. This has been used to a lesser extent by the Supreme Council today, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the Office of the President. A fool who does not support the Law on the Deprivation of the Privileges and Privileges of All Branches of Power. And I even promised the Communists by car that they would vote and give the people what they owned. The second bill that I have proposed and which will work even better than the Deprivation of Benefits and Privileges Act is the Value Added Tax Elimination Act. Every second, every minute, both pensioners and pharmacists and all other institutions pay a value added tax, which goes into the pockets of not a lousy communist sheep, but scum, cockroaches, officials in other branches of government. And they're blowing up money that our pensioner spends 20 copies of each bride, including the communists, every second, and whoever pays in different places. And of course, I believe it is on the conscience of the Communist leadership of the Supreme Council, which this bill does not put in the voting room, because only those two bills that I have passed and against which I do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u154	Turn off the microphone. Leonid Mikhailovich, Your Honor. We are considering the “Criminal” Act, please speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u155	Because I said the most important thing. And those who listen to us, most importantly, do not forget to call your parents. And Solomatina, too, because he's also a parent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u156	Please, Taran, one minute. [[Terra]] Then Solomonine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u157	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable citizens of Ukraine, colleagues! The point is that the bill under consideration expresses the conceptual opinion of the session hall. I'd like to say that our faction, in particular the people's deputies of Belarus, the school, the field and before that Yulia Timoshenko, as a deputy, we've offered the same, we've got to find the funds, we've got to find the funds to solve this problem eventually, because it's impossible to pay 50 dollars, it's impossible, it's not possible until the end of time. And by the time it's called, that money fell from the sky for Krivoriztal, when they were actually removed from the bandits. We need to get them back to savings, otherwise we can't solve this problem. People want it for a long time, people have been waiting for it. These 50 bracelets have already been completely depreciated, inflation has eaten them, and the queues are huge each year in these savings for these unfortunate money. There's an opportunity. Let's finally decide, let's give that money back to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you the right to reply when we're done with this question. Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. Question completed. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 is put to the vote, registration number 8676, on the basis of the first reading. [[on the allocation of funds from the privatization of VAT "Croat-Croat Metallurgical Combine "Crioristal" to finance measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings in institutions of the former USSR Savings Bank]] Please vote. [[13:57:13]] For 227 Copy that. The factions. “Ukraine regions” – 50, Communists – 53, People's Party – 35, Block Timoshenko – 13, Our Ukraine – 0, Socialists – 28, National Block Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, Rebirth – 1, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Reforms and Orders – Zero, Non-fractional – 5. Maybe in general? There's a denial. There's a denial, you can't. The thing is, what we've been practicing, we'll have everything else, we'll have deadlines, we'll have meetings in March -- and then. It's gonna be okay. We can't protocolly limit it, we have to vote on it. Yes, please, one minute, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, my name has been named one of the modern-day New Yorkers, bankers, millionaires, and simply a depraved person. Let him remember how he was on his knees in a party organization and was very keen to join the KPCS, which was necessary in order to become a speaker of the Institute. And now, after this behavior of yours, you're gonna throw a dirty party and our whole story! Tell me, Mr. Banker, what a gift you've given your wife, bought the Mayboh for $500 million! And here you're watering the Communists with dirt from this rostrum about what you want to give them to every Zaporozhye factory a car like a disabled car! Shut up with your cars. We'll get by without you. And the privatization you did: you stole from the people, and now you're giving a plate of soup to the poor!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav, remember how you were expelled from the party, because I can tell you too. You don't have to! You don't have to! I can tell you a lot. The Lviv period I know yours very well. Come on, fellows of honor. Dear colleagues, that's enough! Let's switch lines, let's move on. We have a pretty serious law. I'd like us to accept it. This is about making changes to the Law on TB. [[on forced hospitalization of patients]] Registration number 8648. Can we vote for him? Is there no objection? Chevchuk, please, microphone. Chevchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is not just about tuberculosis. We all understand the importance of this issue, but other things are: human rights, how power will be applied to the sick, to those with disabilities, who will be forced to hospitalize. And the main question is, where do you want to go to hospital? Where will compulsory treatment for tuberculosis be conducted? Are Conditions Made? Are there free medications? What are we going to talk about? About, really, the treatment in the proper order, or about the forced isolation of those unfortunate ones? You'll see what's proposed. First, we decide that a militiaman can force a sick person into the hospital, and later, Minhlav will take care of such treatment. Let's do the opposite: let's let the Ministry determine where, when, when, how do we do compulsory hospitalization? Only after that will we make an important decision that violates human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u162	Yes, please, a minute, Santa Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u163	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. Of course, the bill is important, yes, to combat social diseases such as AIDS, tuberculosis, and others. But once again, I do share the view of the previous MP that it is not just necessary to set up a permit for internal affairs employees to intervene in order to bring someone else to the hospital to see if they need to develop a mechanism for such action. All of this has to be done through the courts to ensure that the court acknowledges such actions, and after that, medical personnel have offered to deliver another to the health care facility. And only then, as a last resort, should internal organs be involved in this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u164	Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that this is the subject that we have heard at the parliamentary hearings -- the situation with tuberculosis. And there's a lot to tell how relevant and important this is, but I want to remind you that 10,000 people die of tuberculosis in Ukraine every year. If the State does not move and do nothing on this subject, the situation will certainly be more than sad. Therefore, the bill has been drafted by the Government in conjunction with a professional committee. And I think we should take him to the first reading today. These are the problems that colleagues have put right in respect of respect for human rights and freedoms, and they may need to be addressed and refined in second reading. But in any case, we must set up a mechanism whereby, if the patient presenting a public danger, tuberculosis is an infectious disease, does not want to be treated, there must be mechanisms to make him do so. That is why we, as the People's Block of Lithuania, will support this bill in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u166	Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u167	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Head, dear colleagues! I'm going to say that the Communist Party faction will support this bill, because we all know very well what the state of the fight against disease, tuberculosis, we have in Ukraine. We're the first in Europe. As a representative of Hersonskin, I should also say today that this disease is also highly developed in regions, especially where places of deprivation are involved. No, it's not. No one thinks about people or those who are in the months of being deprived of their will. So these proposals that have been made today, they are really worth paying attention, and we're really saying that this law is necessary for doctors, for employees of internal affairs. Of course, mandatory hospitalization should be carried out in accordance with judicial decisions and appeals by the head of an anti - TB facility. Otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I remind you. I remind you, Gennady Josephovich. It's also written for reasons. Dear colleagues, I remind you, the author of the Cabinet of Ministers bill. The author of the Cabinet of Ministers bill. That's one thing. The other one. You're absolutely right. You and I listened to questions specifically at the parliamentary hearings. Tragedy, a great disaster. Let us adopt the law in the first reading, correct what those who are heavily on the watch for human rights want to do. But we stand on the sidelines of human rights. We want to protect one, and a thousand, sorry, compromise. It is not the protection of human rights. Let us approach this wisely. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis, registration number 8648. Please vote. [[14:06:53]] For 246 Thank you. The factions. Copy that. Party of Regions 55, Communist 55, People's Party 17, Block of Timoshenko 23, Our Ukraine 10, Soccer 22, People's Block of Lithuania 22, Social Democrats 16 and Ukrainian People's Party 2, Revival 4, National Movement of Ukraine 0, Industrial and Business Party 11, Reforms and Orders 3, non-fractional 6. Thank you. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
