ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:23]] There are 372 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Widow Gennady Josephovich. Let us welcome him with this memorable day. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! It's a special day. Perhaps all of you remember the words of the song that are now dipping into each one of us. Twenty-second June Four o'clock straight. Kiev bombings, We've been announced, That war had begun. This happened 65 years ago. I call this date especially exciting because my father is a frontist, and I'm proud that he's with his fighting brothers as soon as he can get this great time of victory. The war against “the brown plague” is rightly called“holy” because every day of this war was sacred: both the days of the heavy defensive battles and the days of the victorious attack. From the early days of the fascist invasion, the people of Ukraine rose up to defend the homeland. By the end of 1943, the number of Ukrainians in the Red Army had reached 35 percent. With the courage and courage of over 2.5 million members of the Ukrainian people, the Orders and Medals awarded more than 2,000 to the highest rank of the Hero of the Soviet Union. Including 31 twice, John Kožedub, the famous air ace, three times. So it happened that during the years of the war, Ukraine found itself in the epicenter of the most bitter battles in human history. The deadly cat of military action took place twice in our country — from the West to the East, then from the East to the West. The occupiers destroyed and burned 29,000 cities and villages, more than 16,000 enterprises, and left some 10 million homeless. During the years of the war, the Republic lost two thirds of its national wealth. One out of six Ukrainians died. Where is the source of our victory? What had happened was that the deadly danger had mobilized the forces of the people, and his sweat and blood had become the main factors of victory. Patriotism, the will to win, the strong friendship of the peoples of the Allied State, and the leadership of the Communist Party played a major role. The economic model at the time justified itself. As far as researchers are concerned, the heart of World War II was in the cold trenches of our Great Homeland War. To Europe’s capitals, victory came in a Soviet soldier’s shoe. Yes, the fate of today’s flourishing Europe was decided in bloody battles and in Ukraine’s space. Today, there are more than three and a half million war veterans in Ukraine. They are not only members of the fighting, but also members of the families of the fallen soldiers and the disabled, the workers in the rear. To the extent possible, the State is taking steps to provide them with normal living conditions. But we must admit that very little has been done. And this, I think, is going to be the central task of both the higher legislative body and the coalition government Parliament-formed government. Twenty-second June is the tragic date of our history. But it must always be kept in mind in order to prevent such an calamity from ever happening to our people, so that no armed foreigner can enter our Ukrainian land without permission. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the eternal memory of the famous and nameless heroes who have overcome death and their exploits in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u2	Thank you, please sit down. Yes, dear colleagues, we continue our consideration, we continue our consideration of our issues in the order of the day. Now we're with you, I remind you, at the tenth point of the agenda, which sounds like the formation of a coalition of MP factions. At this point, at this point, we don't have any reports of it yet. What will be the suggestions? I'd like you to sign up for five minutes at a time. Please point to the table. Smythuch George, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u3	I'd like a word with Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u4	Please, Kushnarov Eugene's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we concluded that the three factions promised us today to announce the creation of a so - called orange coalition. I offer to give them a word, either together or in turn, so that they can tell us whether there is a coalition or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u6	Yes, please, Kolocy, the faction of the “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u7	I ask you to pass the word to Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u8	Please, Raisa Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u9	Respectable. Raisa Bogatyreva, “Regions of Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, I think it will be absolutely right if we now take the time to exchange our conclusions and our political assessments of the events that are taking place and then decide whether we are working without interruption today, until we have exhausted all the issues that we are asking or begun to review again the order of the day, there is an appropriate decision by the faction of the Regions to vote in favour. I don't think the time to delay is absolutely necessary. And that will be fair and fair to our electors and all Ukrainian citizens who are waiting today, as on the last day, although today and 22 June, for positive messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u10	Please, Oleg Belarus, faction of the "Timoshenko Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u11	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u12	Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone is looking forward to an event, which literally, I think should take place in a few minutes. This is a declaration of a democratic coalition that will ensure the stable development of our state. And now, as far as I know from my colleagues in the faction “Our Ukraine” there is a collection of the latest signatures under this document. And so the two factions came up with a proposal to take half an hour breaks to technically ensure this process. This is our, I'm sorry, regulatory right. And I'm asking the chairman to comply with the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u14	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of Regions. After him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u15	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues. I remind everyone that article 83, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the regulations that we voted on March 16, of this year provide for the addition of a list of members of those factions that form a coalition. What I would like to hear and see are these lists. That's the first one. And secondly, we have every opportunity, no one is stopping us, as the three faction leaders of these factions are negotiating, they're processing the deputies to sign, we can boldly approach the decision-making of the Supreme Council. Because to this day we have completely slowed down the sad consequences of these unprecedented calculations in the economic sphere, the unprofessional activity of the two orange governments that put the Ukrainian economy today on the brink of collapse, stop and collapse. So we suggest that we continue the work of the Supreme Council, we don't need a break, let those who have to do it agree, and we should work on it, because we have to prepare people for winter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u16	Please, Andrew School, the faction “Blok Timoshenko”, followed by Kunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u17	Thank you. I would like to draw the Chairman's attention once again to the fact that this is the absolutely regulatory right of the two factions of the Supreme Council to request a recess. And you don't have to take the last speaking break, so he can work here all the time. I would even suggest working without a vacation to prepare well for the winter, to secure the winter period of Ukraine, and thus everything will be fine in Ukraine, and with the seasons, because it's right when a national deputy instead of a vacation wants to work in the summer, to prepare for the winter. And actually, I would like to point out that this is over, and I hope that all the signatures can be interesting not only to see, but to bury and hang themselves on the wall to see that the coalition of democratic forces, regardless of what they try to do, will happen. And Ukraine will be, no matter what your opposition is, and I would like to give us a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u18	Yes, please, Kunchenko, the Socialist faction, Tsakchenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u19	Kunchenko, Socialist faction. I'd like to give the ice cream to Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u20	Please, it's Alexander Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I would like us to stop being in Russian for the sake of whether or not a coalition has been created, because if it's cold, it'll be cold in the winter for everyone, regardless of the political color they have. That's one thing. The other one. Obviously, we should now allow factions to comment on the situation. That's enough, let's say 20 or 25 minutes, and then, if asked by colleagues, there's a need for that, for another half hour to announce a break, then we can vote. At least during this time of communication, signatures can be collected if they are not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u22	Please, Alexander Tkachenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u23	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u24	Please, Peter Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u25	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would very much like to ask the representatives of the orange coalition not to use the word “democratic coalition” because if it is composed of corruptionists, it is not democratic. Second. I propose that we do the following, distinguished colleagues. If, after the break requested today by the two factions, it is not announced that all the signatures have been collected and are ready to show all the documents, in accordance with the Rules, verified by the authenticity of the signatures and so on, I propose to proceed with the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council. And that's the point. Why am I talking about this? We are fed promises and breakfasts every morning. If these leaders are unable to provide organizational issues today, they are not capable of anything. And we need to understand that they can't be trusted to run the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, in the course of your speeches, there were various suggestions, including mutually exclusive ones: some proposed a break, others offered to give the factions a chance to speak. But in view of the fact that paragraph 15 of the 27th article of the Rules states that the presiding officer is obliged, if there is a requirement of at least two factions, to declare a recess of 30 minutes, I declare a recess of 30 minutes to 10 hours 45 minutes. I would like to ask the factions and members of the temporary Presidium to rise on the third floor. Representatives of the factions of the Socialists and the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, we'll continue our sessions of the Supreme Council. The meetings of the temporary Presidium and the leaders were concluded, more specifically, the heads of the factions. As always, it was fruitful. There's a lot of interesting thoughts. Now we're going to hear about them and figure out how we're going to work on them. In the meantime, at the request of the two factions who announced the break, I give the floor, 3 minutes, to Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u28	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues, a venerable presidency! It has been a great privilege for me to announce the news that the whole country has been waiting for many months. I would like to announce that, for this moment, the coalition of democratic forces in our "Ukraine", BUT, the Socialist Party, has been created. [[Applause]] I think we've all seen how difficult this process has been and now that all the documents have been forwarded to the Supreme Council Secretariat under the Rules, there are no difficulties to talk about. And I think it's important to notice that the coalition under the new Constitution begins to live today when the struggle of the people of Ukraine began 65 years ago with the peoples of the Soviet Union against the invaders. And today we are starting our struggle to make our country democratic. . to be cleansed of all corruption, and to be proud of our Ukraine as our grandfathers, parents, all the people who fought for independence had dreamed. And just as the victory ended then, the great five - year battle, so our fight will end with a victory. And it's a sign. And I want us to welcome both the people of Ukraine and the Parliament. [[Applause]] Now I have a few seconds to say the main thing: “Glory to Ukraine! ”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! With 61 percent of the new deputies here, I would ask: Don’t get too excited. The session had already seen everything so that there would be no disappointment. At the Conciliation Board meeting, there were suggestions on how we should proceed, and I'm going to put them to the vote. There was an offer to allow the factions to speak for five minutes. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[10:51:03]] For 312 Decision taken. So please report from factions. Who's starting? Perhaps, as always, we will begin with Roman Petrovich the Immortal. Please, Roman Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u30	Yesterday's formula: no one to speak, let the Immortal speak. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We passed from November to the moon, when we first talked about coalition, a very long road. And today I'm going to talk about the wrong problem that we've solved, eventually we've found a common agenda, we've found the steps that have brought us together, we've solved the most difficult issue -- this is the cement that we've added to this program, which is called "the division of spheres of responsibility," and the citizens of Ukraine will soon see in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and the program, and the areas of responsibility that the political power assumes for what part of the work I'm going to talk about today: how after that this road, which divides two parts of the hall, will make Ukraine a joint road for Ukraine to develop, so that Ukraine develops to increase the well-being of the Ukrainians. And that's why our next task is to find an opportunity. How to settle the status and proportions of the majority and Ukrainian opposition. This is a very important step, because we all have to understand that we are both the majority and the opposition, we are all Ukrainian and we all have to work for the Ukrainian people for the Ukrainian state. What must be decided in this regard? First. This is possible at this stage, when a government is formed, to draft a law on opposition that clearly identifies the rights and responsibilities that the opposition would first have in order for the majority to act only within a framework that the opposition cannot act. The other one. I think we need to think about the way to go -- or the way to create so-called shadow offices, shadow governments and ministries in order for the opposition to have all the necessary information for its activities, or whether it is necessary to create conditions for the work of committees and ministries, where they are represented in public colleges, in advisory councils, the opposition's representatives. This is very important because it will enable most people to work rationally, and the opposition to control Ukrainian power. The next problem we have to solve is public control over the activities of Ukrainian authorities. We should not think that when we linked deputies and governments with responsibility, we gave the Ukrainian people the broadest right to control the activities of power. No! No! Why? Because we're on the verge of serious constitutional changes for reforming the local government, which means that the venerable is the majority, and the opposition is that we need to look for 300 votes, and I don't think in this case the opposition will refuse to support those ideas that have been spreading and implementing Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz in reforming the local government, in reforming the central executive authorities. That is why we need to find an understanding here as well. And that means that in local governments, we need to create the system that we've created so hard today in the Supreme Council, and we hope that we'll create it in the Ukrainian government. So any of them. criticism, any remarks will always be taken from the point of view of their rational use in building Ukrainian power. We need to realize once again that we are all Ukrainians. The next step, of course, will be the serious economic reforms to be undertaken by Ukraine, which must be implemented by the Ukrainian authorities in the person of the Ukrainian majority and the Ukrainian opposition. And you don't have to think that there's only going to be a place and application here for the majority, there's going to be opposition here, and there's control functions, and there's criticism by the Ukrainian majority, most of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government. And I would like to pay attention to the things that are happening in Ukraine today. If we build this atmosphere in the Ukrainian Parliament, the interaction between the Ukrainian Parliament and the government, and transfer this atmosphere of relations at a district level, between district administrations and councils, between district councils and administrations, then we can say, we can build a mechanism to implement the will of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, who's the socialist? Alexander Alexanderus Moroz. Let's get ready to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I think we've solved one very important question today. We've seen the negotiations in the last period, we've seen the artificial delay in creating a coalition, and the risk has been tremendous -- to put Parliament on a legal hook as to what it might be either dissolved, that is, the President's right to do so is provided in the Constitution, or there will be some strange legal space to work in. So the solution to the question of creating a coalition puts a dot on this perspective, and it's still going to depend on how the entire parliament works: both coalition, and opposition, how the government works. I'd like not to call you to unity or anything, because I understand that it's not just going to make this happen, and obviously it's going to be hard to have a discussion, we're going to be getting a new practice as needed in a democratic society. But I fully support what Roman Petrovich said about focusing on a whole range of problems related to the completion of political reform. Yesterday, when I prepare a document as a protocol for the “Draft Law on Constitutional Change” agreement, when I communicate with representatives of various political factions, I have once again learned that so much work will be focused on a committee to deal with local self-government, because we need about ten legislative acts of extreme difficulty to be adopted over a year and a half. And this is fundamentally important, and the changes to the Constitution should be finally voted this year in order for no one to have any doubts as to what a political reform review can be done. As long as we don't hand over the power to the electorate in places until the local authorities have all the tools to provide and their powers, and meet the needs of the electorate, until then we can't be calm about the future of the state, for its future. Here I am, hoping that we will have enough sense of responsibility for solving this problem, and I would like to express myself on this very day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u33	Thank you, you. That's not how the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko claims to be. Please, from the faction “Regions” who? Efraemov, please, Alexander, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u34	Alexander Efremov, faction of Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I hope we have heard the final decision today to form a coalition in Parliament. And I think all the deputies who made the conscious decision and joined the coalition. And those who have not joined the coalition understand all the responsibility that is taking place today. Indeed, 22 June is a black day for our State and 65 years ago, as a result of the war with us, practically every family in our country has either lost its family member or someone has remained a cripple. I do not wish, as a result of the coalition that was created and we still do not believe in its capacity, because, at least in our regions, the individual political forces that signed the coalition today are going completely under other slogans, and it is difficult to understand how they will explain to their constituents, even though they are many in our region, why they have dramatically changed their view of the diametric opposite. I hope that everyone who signed the coalition understands that we still have one more day left, which, if it turns out that the signatures gathered in this coalition are not given to anyone and that information is still in the Chamber, you will put the entire MP and the entire Supreme Council under a constitutional article that states that the President can at any time question the illegality of the Supreme Council in the future. Therefore, I would like further attention to the representatives who have announced the establishment of the coalition to consider the responsibility they have assumed. We are very much talking about local councils in this room, and the representative who spoke before me has also not forgotten to mention it. But let us remember literally what happened a few months ago. East Ukraine, the city of Alchevsk, tens of thousands of people are frozen under the new orange rule. It's never been like this before. Justice! I know what I'm saying, believe me, better than you. Tens of thousands lived in cold apartments all winter at a negative temperature, and nothing was done to remedy the situation. And today, local councils don't have a penny to prepare for the winter. Yesterday, in the city of Luganske, in the neighbourhood of East, the eastern boiler room was the largest in the Luganske region. Twenty-six impulses, and not a penny's worth to get rid of those impulses. That's how we're forming a coalition today. Dear friends! I'm not saying that to separate someone or unite someone. I say this in order for everyone to think about the measure of responsibility they have. We are. Yesterday, our representative from this rostrum, Evgeny Kushnarev, spoke and said that we did not prevent you from forming a coalition. It really is. You created it today. It exists. But we are following closely the processes that are taking place in the establishment of your coalition. And we can assure you once again that we don't believe in her ability. Therefore, we do not abandon the responsibility of the people of Ukraine to our State for the processes that will take place in our State. And we leave the right to make decisions, because we will feel it must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u36	Respectable voters. From this rostrum, I would like to address you, distinguished voters. In January 2005, much was said from this rostrum during the inauguration. With tears of joy and grace, TV screens were poured out. Everyone was talking about the most professional team coming. Two months later, everyone said they were corrupts, they were thieves in law, thieves, criminals, etc. Today, the same coalition has merged and continues to claim that they will govern that country. What I want to say to the voters today is to warn them again. In fact, it has now been announced that corruption has ended in Ukraine. That's the first conclusion. Second conclusion. I believe that we must take into account the next political situation. There was a gap in the interests of certain financial and political groups, and by forming a so-called orange coalition, they formed a political base or political superstructure on clay legs. Because the economic base is located with another group of financial and political interests. Thus, the establishment of this coalition creates a prerequisite for deepening the territorial divide of Ukraine. This will be the responsibility and suffering of the people of Ukraine. The territorial collapse of Ukraine is beginning, and it is inevitable that the policy of the representatives of the orange coalition will take place a year and a year and a half earlier, and what they promised here in January from that rostrum. I regret what is happening in this room today, and who has not listened to the Communists' views when we spoke of a completely different approach to the formation of the collective responsibility of the Supreme Council for everything that is going on in Ukraine. Furthermore, respected colleagues and respected voters will accelerate Ukraine's accession to NATO at an accelerated pace, and you are well aware of how this will end. This will end with the sale of national interests, ending with the fact that for this orange team, a military-political umbrella will form its irresponsibility to the people of Ukraine, but depending on those who will be through this umbrella, in fact, destroying our independence with you. This will, of course, increase the economic contradiction in a colossal manner, as contradictions with the same Russian Federation will be deepened and complicated. This will inevitably result in the suffering of domestic producers. This will soon lead to a major impact on the country's export capacity in the steel industry, energy and the military-industrial complex. Do we not understand with you that because of the activities of the orange coalition, we will soon lose the fundamentals of our country's development, science and high technology. And that, which is linked and concentrated in the defence complex, Ukraine will lose soon. And this will be determined by the course they have set for joining NATO, which is announced by the leader of the orange coalition, Mr. Yushchenko, and the orange coalition will do so, of course, and it is clear which forces, either Cheney or Condolese will call again and tell them what to do. That's obvious to everyone. Therefore, respected companions, I believe that the Bible correctly says “to judge, not according to their own words, but according to their own deeds. ” And we need to make it clear today that those who today declare their programme of action, their programme of action, will never implement it, because the completion of the dream coalition ends with what they have been sharing in portfolios to date, that to this day, the oligarchic factions and corruptionists who have been criticized and who have become, have been building an electoral campaign, I hope that the people of Ukraine have not forgotten who and what have been called corrupters. And the Chief Corruption Officer is being recommended by the President of the Supreme Council. Strange situation at all, how can I vote for what you've rejected? That you cut off and said it would violate the honour and dignity of Ukraine. Therefore, the time has come for respectable voters to reflect on what happened during the elections. During the elections, there was a reorientation of public consciousness as a result of bribery, blackmail, intimidation, and, regrettably, the people had given the indulgence again and again, confidence in this orange authority. She's initially incapacitated, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u37	The block of Timoshenko has reconsidered, in violation of the Rules, and I give them my word, please. Because if the speaker refuses, he loses his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u38	I'm just going to remind you once again that today, really, everything has been done to strengthen the people's choice. And it's just that the representative of the Communist Party said that people judge, not by word, but by case. And that's why 3.5 percent got the Company, and the orange coalition, they say, got the majority in our home country. And that's why I want to say that it's too early to do any math today, because it's the case that needs to be judged. And that's exactly what we're going to do. And now I totally understand that the Party of the Regions has made such observations, or maybe the signatures aren't there yet, or maybe the coma isn't there, but maybe the graphology will show that someone didn't sign for themselves. I understand that in the Party of the Regions, hope dies last. Dear friends! We faithfully collected the signatures, placed them in a certain order, filed all the documents, as provided for by the Rules. And with the hope of coming to you after 10 years of destruction of Ukraine to power, you have to say good-bye. Say good-bye. [[Applause]] And yet, dear fellows, I was surprised by the simple, truly surprised cry of a governor who had been in charge for many years, who had broken the pipe in 26 places. But, dear friends, if there were new pipes laid in 10 years of mob domination, they wouldn't be torn down today. Because the budget and everything else that's moving in the country, you're warmed up in your pockets, and that's why the pipes are tearing. We're not gonna touch them, we're gonna change them. And you were thinking of replacing the slogan of the orange revolution “The Bandits will be sitting in jail!” with “The Bandits will be sitting in ministerial chairs!” no way, dear friends. And what has not been allowed to make our political power after the orange revolution, namely, that the law is equal for all, enough to make an exception, enough to live by the principle of “Friends – everything, enemies – the law!” No! No! This era will end and the first reform we will make is the reform of justice, so that we can finally say that it is not the Mafia that decides who did what is right and who does not. It's not the Mafia who decides who to give A to, but who to give B to, but it's the law of procedure, the rules! And I also think that a lot of things, the opposition's right to say, are going to depend on what kind of assignment they're going to make. And I'm now addressing our newly created democratic coalition, and I'm anxious to approach every person who's going to be assigned to the post. And if there's at least a hint that there's some kind of assault in there to take something stately, I'm just asking them not to put it on the list. Because it's a chance. I understand that the Party of Regions is speaking out loud as they heard the word "positions," and you're out of your mind. It's not about you anymore. That's why I'm now turning to our democratic camp. I ask that for every position we are not ashamed to have every person who has come to put an end to this shadow, the lawlessness, the humiliation of the people who were in our country under the old rule. And I'm convinced that if you and I were given a second chance, and there's no such thing in history that when they lose one chance, history, the Lord and the people give a second chance. So if we can't take a second chance with you, then I'll go along with the people of Ukraine and say, "Here's the way for all of us!" And I believe that you and I have taken on an extraordinary responsibility today, and we will handle it with you. And let the opposition not worry, it will live civilised and joyfully if it lives by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u39	Yes, dear fellows, all the representatives have spoken. In the course of the speech, the last speaker was called Ephraim. Ephrem's lineup and Simonenko, please. Pick up the stenogram. The word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Alexander Efremov, Party of Regions. I am proud to have worked for seven years as Governor of the Lugansk region. And if, until then, I had any doubts that Ukraine could or could not be further exterminated or unified, the statement by the individual representatives who are here today from this rostrum in the central hall of our Ukraine is that they are on the path of division. And I really wouldn't want to go any further with that. I'm addressing all the MPs, all the healthy people. I do not want Ukraine to ever repeat what was in the Lugansk region in its management. Then, when the President of the Regional Public Administration comes to me on Friday night, he is described as a high-ranking person.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, especially those who are recently in the hall: don't shout, the technician works for you, and it shuts down in time, and it shuts down in time. Take care of the Voice Links, there will be an announcement and you will be supported. Don't wave your hands because you can hit a very beautiful woman who sits next to you and can lose weight with your swings. Please, Simonna microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u42	Respectable colleagues, as one of the people's deputies spoke, would like to say the following. They have not yet begun to perform their duties in power, but have already declared the “war of the clans”. That is, on 22 June, it is very symbolic that the Ukrainian Soviet people started the fight against national socialists in Germany, today the modern national socialists are declaring a new march and a new war is the first. Second. We must conclude with you that the leadership of the Supreme Council will be guided by the so-called “cumen” relations of the people. Third. I would like to propose, just as an orange coalition, to really support the statement that has been made here, and now remove from your list of people's deputies all of the alligarchs, and then I will see how many of you are left. And the last. I see, let's say that the camp that has just been mentioned has been successfully “entered into the sky”. Have a good trip.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u43	Alexander Alexanderovich, what do you want to say? Your faction wasn't named. In view of the fact that no proposals have been made, a break of 12.30 is announced. I ask those who have a bearing on the creation of the coalition to speed up the processing of the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning meeting of the Supreme Council. There are no documents yet. So I'm asking you to sign up, five minutes with suggestions on how we're going to proceed. Yes, please, Kravchenko Mikola, Communist faction. After him – Olijnik, “Timishenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u45	Kravchenko, Communist faction. Once again, in jargon language, we were abandoned. Once again we've announced the establishment of a coalition and we've got nothing, no papers, nothing now, and we're starting to lead you know what. Goat, yes. So there was a proposal. There was a proposal. The Supreme Council is now taking up the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, his deputies, in view of the non-submission of documents, to bring the work of the Supreme Council into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u46	Please, Olijnik Volodymyr, faction of the “Timoshenko Block”, followed by Radovets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u47	I would like to give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u48	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u49	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I'm asking our opposition colleagues not to get nervous. The signatures and all the documents were registered at the right time and now Adam Ivanovich was called to the Bureau because he did not ask before the meeting at the secretariat that the signatures were checked, everything was in line with the rules of the current law and the Constitution, and now Adam Ivanovich would be filed with the secretariat in order to loudly announce the creation of a democratic coalition. So please, dear colleagues, don't be nervous. It's a purely technical delay in the work of the Supreme Council Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u50	Radovec, please, the faction “Bloko timoshenko” behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u51	Please pass the word Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u52	Tomenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are in a unique situation in general, and I have read the statements of our colleagues from a party of regions, they are fully supportive of the coalition agreement, because it's so historic that we've discussed one text of the agreement. And that's why for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the majority coalition and the opposition will live on a single document called the Coalition of Democratic Forces. I'm just as happy that we're going to vote, of course, over 300 votes, because we all promised to work for the Ukrainian people and do this document. That's why we're going to be preparing staff proposals like this, and we're going to have to do it in good law. After Adam Ivanovich has announced the creation of a coalition of democratic forces and I am convinced that next week the period of inter-government in the Ukrainian state will end and that there will be a period when the power and opposition will carry out one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u54	Yes. Tkachenko, the faction of “Bloko Timoshenko”, followed by Kluczkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u55	Please give the floor to the Turkish national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleagues for asking me to put another dot in our conversation. And I am pleased that the mood in all the deputies and in the parliamentary majority, which will now be declared officially from the Supreme Council's rostrum, is very good in opposition. This indicates that the Parliament is still set up for constructive work. And I am convinced that in the near future, when the governing bodies of the Supreme Council are formed, we will not have any problems either. Well, then, we won't have any problems forming the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All of this is going to happen, I think, in the very near future, and in the end, the dream of honorary left-wing deputies and MPs who are determined by their political orientation is about to choose the speaker of the Supreme Council. I think it will be a joyous event in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u57	Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u58	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” block. Continuing the constructive trend at the beginning of the coalition's activities, please give the floor to the leader of our faction, Mr. Roman Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u59	Please, Immortal Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is good that we have this tradition that factions make a clear position and are declared by factions. Indeed, everything that Alexander Volodymyrovich was talking about is confirmed. The documents are currently under review, especially the signatures of the national MPs. Because this is very important from the point of view of the process of approving coalition documents. Indeed, these coalition documents will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine as soon as possible, and Ukrainian citizens will be able to get acquainted with the coalition programme and will be able to appreciate the coalition's activities. With regard to today’s situation. Adam Ivanovich, I would suggest that we not be on the air in vain right now, announce a little break until technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, and to the knowledge of those who listen to us, Adam Ivanovich does not engage in in vain. I'm not talking, and you're talking. So the answer to who's on the air is clear. Yes. In those statements we took five minutes, the proposals remained the same. So we're waiting for a coalition announcement, and then you're going to show it later, and then we're going to talk about it in the daytime. Now we have a day-to-day question about the coalition. If the proposals change, we can change, but there were none. So I'm going to call it a 15-minute break. Up to 12 hours 42 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. Our fifteen - minute break was half in favor. I mean, the announcements have been printed on what is a coalition, but there are no lists yet, so I have no right to declare it in accordance with the Rules. Please sign up for 5 minutes. Yes, please, Saucuk, faction of the Party of Regions, behind him is Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u64	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning, we did not accidentally discuss the need for the reconciliation of the personal signatures of the Ukrainian National Deputies - members of the newly declared coalition. Such a promising name as the “democratic coalition” provides, at least, for the honesty and transparency of signature assemblies and for the personal will of Ukrainian national deputies, as provided for in article 83 of the Constitution and the Rules of Ukraine. So the 239 signature numbers and the surface detailed, not detailed knowledge showed sharp differences: the number is-- there is no signature. What's worse, the signature is different from the signature that was under the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy. This is the conclusion. Either the wrong man was under oath, or the wrong man was on the list. I'm proposing that I propose that we assign a reckoning commission to get out of this situation peacefully without access to the staged hysteria, calmly democratically assigning a reckoning commission, believe me, it will take very little time, the list of questionable signatures we have here. I would like to remind you by appealing to Alexander Valentinovich, when we voted for political reform here, he demanded and each of us stood up and the crown fell into none and testified to his signature. There's nothing to worry about. So I'm going to ask the voting question that the validity of the lists should be entrusted to the committee that we have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u66	Tomenko, please, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues from the opposition, I would advise you, as an old opposition, to have a strong nervous system, it's a matter of opposition. And please pass the word to one, now not to the opposition, but to the principled politics of Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u68	School microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u69	Thank you, Santa. First of all, I want to point out that it wasn't just a sign-up game, because I just found out that there are graphs in the faction of the regions that can, in one way or another, identify who was right and who wasn't. If you doubt that, I can point out that the work to prepare the document has been delayed by the Supreme Council's Personnel Department, because they have entered, I use such a soft term, entered a group of national deputies who have demanded signatures and tried to manifest absolutely indispensable properties there -- one way to determine who signed correctly and who did not. I don't know, maybe you have some kind of special device, and you're using it, so please check.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u70	Olena Netecka, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sivulian after her.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u71	Elena Netecka, faction of Party regions. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Eugenia Kushnarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u72	Please, Kushnarov Eugene's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The establishment of a coalition for the first time in Ukraine's political history is a very responsible act. And it'll be a terrible mistake and a huge disgrace if it's accompanied by falsifications and suspicions. Therefore, all doubts must be removed. To that end, we propose that the Accountant Commission conduct an open audit on all questionable signatures, and then the deputies who form the coalition will, by standing up in this room, confirm that they have voluntarily joined the coalition. And then you will take a huge step towards democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u74	Mikoli Sivuliski, faction “Bloka timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u75	Please give the word to the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u76	Timoshenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u77	I, my dear friends, have often wondered, though it may be difficult to say that I am surprised by something. How can you get so attached to authority? And I can let you know. I can tell you that the delay with the coalition announcement officially occurred because a group of national MPs from the Party of the Regions practically broke into the Human Resources Department, stopped all the work, practically confused all the papers, there was a window where the counterfeiting was, and there were several MPs. For your information, one of the forged signatures that was named is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka. Please stand up, Vasil Vasilovich. Look, it's the same thing that they're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u78	So, Vasil Vasilovich, you don't want to take a line? None. Yes. Please. Onopenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm going to say, as a lawyer, my esteemed colleagues, that in order to determine a signature, I don't have one point of view, and I'm going to need an expert. An expert needs to be warned about criminal responsibility, and some of them need to be tested for psychiatric expertise. So, you know, you can't make this all go away when they really say my signature isn't mine. Well, then I'll put a cross on it and put a cross on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. I would like to draw your attention to the words of the famous lawyer Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek, who really needs an expert, but there's nothing to be done yet, because there are no lists. So I'm going to call it a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. The break's over. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 61, 62, 63 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I declare the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Coalition of Deputies in the Fifth Council of Ukraine. A coalition of MPs formed on the basis of the Agreement. Dear colleagues! Please don't interrupt the chairman. A coalition of MP factions formed on the basis of an agreement on the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine signed by the heads of MP factions: The bloc of July Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine”, the Socialist Party of Ukraine - consisting of 239 Ukrainian national deputies, who signed their own signatures to confirm their agreement to become members of the coalition. [[political parties “The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party]] [[the political party "The People's Union "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, the Congress of the Ukrainian Nationalists, the Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", the Party of the Christian Democratic Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Lists of members of the named MPs with the individual signatures of the national MPs, which are an integral part of the coalition agreement, are added. And with your permission, I will announce the names of the members of the Coalition. The deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I'm sorry, I'm only going to read names for the short cut. People's deputies: Abdullin, Antipov, Bagraev, Bilorus, Birjuk, Bodnar, Bondarenko, Borzih, Budgerak, Burjak Sergiy, Burjak Alexander, Vasadze, Vrevsky, Veršinina, Vidrin, Vitenko, Volinec, Vorotnuk, Hasuk, Glady, Glus, Hubski, Danilov, Denisova, Derevljany, Doncak, Eden, Jeresko, Ževago, Židenko, Zamkovenko, Zamkovenko, Zimin, Zozula, Zubc, Zubov Valentin, Calchenko, Chamber, Kamenyash, Kirilenko. Sorry, they say, Kamchatny. I'm sorry. Chelkovsky, Chelkovsky, Chelkovsky, Sisinsky, Sischenkowek, Sischenkowakow, Chelkowsky, Chelkowsky, Chelkowsky, Chelkowsky, Chelkow, Chelkowsky, Chelkowsky, Chelkowsky, Sischenkowik, Sischenkowik, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkowsky, Chelkowikow, Chelkowikow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow, Chelkow [[Terra]] All of it. The signatures here are certified by the Secretariat, the Personnel Management. “Our Ukraine”: Jehanurov, Kinakh, Tarasuk Boris, Gerasimük, Ližičko, Kirilenko, Lapina, Katerinczuk, Knyazevich, Grigorovich, Stretovich, Matvienko Anatoli, Onystuk, Tanuk, Bespali, Klutkowski, Quybida, Orobec, Majo, Martinenko, Pavlenko, Immortal, Koval, Yvchenko, Zvarich, Prokopovich, Long, Gyrnik, Udivenko, Polachenko, Prashenko, Spyg, Levchenko, Guriev, Bondar, Muruszczenko, Lanovsky Krustko Peter, Trenjakov, Polski, Polski, Glavativ, Volkov, Gemielov, Stavilov, Pashkov, Pashik, Pusik, Kucherenko, Kucherenkonov, Kučerenko, Vy, Vyevish, Vish, Žirovsky, Žilski, Žilski, Kielski, Kielski, Kielski, Krajovsky, Kralski, Kralski, Kralskiković Ukraine's Socialist Party: Baranowski, Boyko Volodymyr, Boki, Bondarczuk, Bugajec, Bulba, Winsky, Volga, Harmash, Honcharov, Danilin, Derkac, Kuzmenko, Kunchenko, Malinovski, Matvinkov, Mendus, Mordovec, Moroz, Nikolayenko, Polakov, Rudzikowski, Sadow, Seminuk, Selchenko, Spodarenko, Tarasov, Filindash, Tsusko, Čmir, Chukmasov, Šibko. Thus, my fellow Members, we have endured the rules of the Rules and the Constitution and have discussed with you the issue of our day-to-day agenda on the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we have the next item on the agenda: the election of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What will be the suggestions? Please sign up. Five minutes. Please, Baldwin, Party of Regions. Behind him is Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u82	Thank you. I have a simple natural proposal: to verify the effectiveness of this coalition, let the coalition put forward its candidate and vote for him without us. And if she doesn't make it, then we'll help.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u83	Kenzior, please, the faction “Our Ukraine”. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u84	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. I'm asking you to pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u85	Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I draw your attention, Adam Ivanovich, to the registered draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adjourn the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until June 27, 2006. As co-author of this ruling, under which the signatures of the national deputies of Ukraine Turkinov and Winski have also been strengthened, I am formally proposing to you to include this draft decision in the agenda and to vote on it. I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u87	Did you think I wouldn't? Rudzkowski, please follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u88	Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! We are now approaching an extremely responsible parliamentary function, the election of Parliament's head. Of course, after a regulatory rule and a coalition has been established, it is natural that it should make appropriate proposals both for the head and for other officials, and the Parliament's will is to be determined accordingly. When the three factions propose to hold further consultations in this regard, perhaps the position on the Head of the Supreme Council has not yet been established, some other nuances need to be taken into account. What's the point? In accordance with the Constitution, we have met the constitutional requirement for 30 days to create a coalition, now we can quickly implement our right to elect other representatives of the authority, both the legislative and the executive. So we need to take a break, as our colleagues suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u90	Please. Eugene Gournik, “Our Ukraine”. Behind him is Cowchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I was delighted to hear Adam Ivanovich say in a happy voice that he had established a democratic coalition in Ukraine and thus put an end to completely groundless talk about the death of an orange coalition. We say you can't wait. I ask my colleagues to take into account that this coalition really represents the interests and voices of most of the population of Ukraine. And that this coalition is completely not rejecting the other part of the Ukrainians that voted not for this coalition. So I ask everyone to be responsible for the further procedures that will take place in the Supreme Council, to reach them with full responsibility, and for that, we need to prepare for Tuesday. I support the cook's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u92	Cowchuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u93	I'd like to give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u94	Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Now, you can see that the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, our Ukraine and the Soccer have protected parliament from disbandment and formed a coalition at the right time. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, please, let's start our work in the new conditions of most parliamentary and parliamentary opposition not with provocations made by some members of the Human Resources Department when they blocked the signatures to transfer us to the Secretariat and to the leadership of the Supreme Council. And that's why you and I lost a few hours. I think we need to work more effectively. And that's why I think we're going to be working in the conditions reached at the time of the temporary Supreme Council. There's a decision, there's an offer, it needs to be put to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u96	Please, Sweden, Block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u98	Mikoli Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are continuing the tradition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the first time, when a parliamentary majority of the 239 people's deputies is known to have been created. It worked well for three and a half years. I think we need to set an example from this period and lead to the five - year existence of the parliamentary majority and that there are no problems and conflicts so that no one can look for ways to go to the Ukrainian house or to other institutions. The second position is no less important, which I think we're creating good traditions here. And I am absolutely convinced that the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council will not take place in the toilet, as in the previous call. I am absolutely convinced that they will not be walking around with bags or purses of money. We're going to hold three factions, we're going to discuss this, and how democratic political powers are going to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council. So I'd like to ask the opposition to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u100	Mikola Volodymyrovich, speaking of 239, who did you mean? If I am, I can give you an answer, but it may depress you. You will soon end your existence. Yes, please, we had an exchange of thoughts. Alexander Aleksandrovich, you weren't called. Group 239, that means the ones I announced today. During the discussion there were proposals, 2 proposals, no more. I'll put them to the vote and we'll be with you, and we'll be with you, and we'll be with you. There were proposals, one proposal that basically sounded from the mouth of various representatives, which was from the mouth of various representatives of the Party of the Regions, that was about the commission of the Counting Commission. And the second sentence, which came from Roman Mikhailovich's mouth about the inclusion in the agenda, and then, accordingly, the procedure, the decision that was given in the order for the suspension of plenary sessions. So get ready in that order, we'll vote. Who in charge of assigning the Counting Commission, the Counting Commission, to verify the signatures of the national deputies placed under a coalition agreement, please vote. [[13:33:16]] For 202 The factions, please. Region Party – 181, Block Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” and Socialists – zeros, Communists – 21. Another decision, another suggestion for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft decision for recess in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Bill 1078 registration number, please identify yourself. [[13:34:06]] For 240 The factions, please. Party of regions – Zero, Block of Timoshenko – 129, “Our Ukraine” – 78, Socialists – 33, Communists – zero. Decision taken. That's how we're going to implement. I'm looking at the authors of the Turkinov bill, Winsky, Zvaric, who's going to report it? A Turk? Please, how much time do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u101	In three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u102	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Today, after the establishment of a coalition of democratic forces in our Supreme Council, a new democratic path for development has begun. We started working with you as a civilized Parliament of a civilized country when the parliamentary majority is structured and officially declared. And I hope we have MPs who are also in opposition. And that's why, dear fellows, we can't have spontaneous, unforeseeable votes, we have to get used to it. That's why, in order to prepare proposals from the parliamentary majority, from the coalition of democratic forces that relate to the leadership of the Supreme Council, I stress, the leadership of the Supreme Council, including, we do not rule out that when we discuss this issue, the meeting of the parliamentary majority, we will consider the issue of the appointment of some leadership positions and for representatives of the parliamentary opposition when it is structured and stated. That's why, honourable colleagues, to treat with respect both to the majority and to the opposition, we suggest we take a break until June 27. And to start Parliament's work on Tuesday, I remind you, June 27th at 10 a.m. During these consultations, we are also addressing the parliamentary future opposition, your fellow Members, you need to structure yourself and claim that you are a parliamentary opposition. So that we can communicate with you, not as in the frame department. Dear colleagues! I repeat, it's a fairly small break, we've got some government formation ahead of us, it's a serious issue. And I think all the national deputies who are present in this room are interested in having a quality warehouse, a governing body of the Supreme Council. I am ready to answer the question, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sign up for a question, three minutes. Would you please point to the board, Mr. Andrey? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u105	Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u106	Please, Oleg Belarus. I know the Ripper in my face, Mikolo Mikolaiovich. Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have a question for Alexander Valentinovich Turkinova. First of all, it would be interesting to know how we could actually create a majority in such a short time and first in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, which opens a new page to the democratization of our great state. And the second question can be simpler. How much do you promise the opposition to fasting? And what was the point of winning the election if you promised them fasting?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Of course, the first question is difficult. But I'll be honest with Oleg Grigorovovich. It was difficult, but we felt responsible, and so in the term set by the Constitution for the formation of the parliamentary majority, we put ourselves into it. And I thank all the national MPs who have taken part in this. I want to say the following, dear colleagues. I'm not authorized by the majority of the democratic coalition to assign positions of opposition from this rostrum right now, I mean it. But I think that if we have a constructive opposition, if we have democratic traditions in the Supreme Council, we certainly need representation and opposition in committee leadership. We will consider this question, and I hope that it will be the right, objective decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u109	Please, Landik Valentina faction “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u110	Vladimir Landik, Luhanšina. Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u111	Please, Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Party of the Regions. Alexander Valentinovich! I'm right here. *** You remember at the session of the Supreme Council you requested, then you were in opposition to have those who formed and voted in favour of the bill on political reform personally testify that they actually signed. So I'm telling you today that you call yourself in vain a democratic, you're a demagogic coalition, you're afraid to democratically verify signatures, it's already suspicious. And specifically on your list of 129 missing signatures from the Ukrainian National MP, Polokhov. Our Ukraine has no signatures: Volkov, Kucherenko, Omelchenko. On your list, the signatures of the 25 people's deputies are questionable: one signature, under oath, and another signature, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would recommend that, after all, the representatives of the regions who worked in the Human Resources Department go to the doctors who are correcting their eyesight and see if anyone needs glasses. It is the right age, and I realize that many have it. But, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, we don't have to start work with provocation. You have a question to Polochal, I'm sorry, I'll give you the answer, please, Deputy Polocholo, and he'll give you the answer: he signed it or not. This is a normal way to ask the deputy of Polochal, and you don't need to mediate a reckoning commission. You can ask him calmly and he will answer to stop the provocation. Adam Ivanovich, who has the desire to give the floor to the deputy of Polochal, whom they have called, here, I think it will be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u114	Alexander Valentinovich, you're in charge, and I know what to say for myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u115	There's one problem: you didn't make it through bribery, through intimidation to form a coalition. It is a problem, but it is a fact and it is a fact to live with. But I think we have to live in democratic conditions. We have a civilized country and let's set an example for all of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Don't scream, I hear you. Dear colleagues, indeed, I apologize to the people's deputies, colleagues Volk's Alexander Anatolyevich and Omelchen Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, who are on the lists of our Ukraine and I have read their names, but there are no signatures. I'm sorry. On behalf of the names, please, the microphone and the Kucherenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I also hoped that we would complete and there is hope that today will be civilized. My signature, as a member of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, I put this pen in my hand, and there were witnesses of MPs from the Party of Regions that I could call because they came looking when I was signing. And there were witnesses, of course, of our partners. So, I would very much ask Mr. Dry and many others, I wouldn't want him to apologize, because that doesn't make any sense. Perhaps we should reach a certain level of civilizational culture and then request an apology. I'm just fixing my signature, and hopefully it won't be called my last name or anything else that has any doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u118	Puppy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u119	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Nor do I need an apology from Mr. Dryo, I know him long enough, and unfortunately, he refers to not entirely constructive people from the representatives of the important political power, which is really followed by millions of voters who will certainly take their thoughts into account in the course of our work. Regarding my signature, he was absolutely conscious and should not be speculated. And it seems to me that if one of the people thinks or can say that there's no signature, he has the ability to say that his signature is disavowed, but let's get to work, it's already a little heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u120	Dry, please. Now. It was called a dry name just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to give us no credit. At the very least, whatever I wanted in my life, I heard an evaluation from the former Governor of the Kucherenka Province of Zaporozhi, whom Kuchma brought and when I took away, saying, “I am taking this misunderstanding with me and leaving.” Let's not be graded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u122	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for an address on the subject. Dear colleagues, if we change the Rules, then we will vote. Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please, we have 83 national deputies, let's take 15 minutes. Please, Hara Vasil Grigorovich, Party of Regions, followed by Alexandrovska. No Harry? Do you want to get out of here? This is from, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u123	Surrender to Nikolai Yanovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u124	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u125	Just now, please pass the word to Nikolai Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u126	Please turn on the microphone from the site of Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We were very pleased to hear the list and names of those people's deputies who formed the orange coalition. I think that Julia Vladimirovna has a great field of fighting the oligarchs, with the clans, because very well-known members of these clans are present on this list. We therefore welcome her desire and desire, so to speak, to carry out such work. Second. The party of the regions, of course, this civilized opposition and we are ready to work for the benefit of the country, we welcome any decision of the majority that took place today in this Hall. It is important that the work of the Supreme Council be constructive, aimed at uniting Ukraine to address the challenges of economic development. We have spoken and now reaffirm that we do not believe in the longevity, constructive strength of this opposition, because we know what profound contradictions and how eclectic the foundation of this coalition is. We say this in order to tell all the people of Ukraine that the Party of the Regions has proposed a programme, proposed a strategy for economic development and will do everything in accordance with this strategy, working in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u128	Alexandrovska Alla, a faction of Communists, prepare Artemenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Well, soap opera, this national show of ours ended today, I wouldn't say it was a good thing. Why do I doubt that this conclusion is a good one? We, the Communists, have suggested that there be a public discussion in this room of the programme, which should be brought together by the majority of elected people's deputies. We wanted the people of Ukraine to hear what the people's deputies were gathering and what the Supreme Council was going to do. Unfortunately, all of this remains behind the walls of the Supreme Council. And we are convinced, unfortunately, that this association is short-lived for one simple reason. We understand that the long process, which, unfortunately, was witnessed by the entire people of Ukraine, was so long for one simple reason: too few posts and too many of those in the orange coalition were willing to take up those posts, to share them. And it wasn't just us Communists that talked about it, but journalists and politicians talked about it. And that's why it's no secret to anyone. Why we doubt professionalism and the ability to work effectively and well, to work for the people of Ukraine. Non-professionalism, incompetence is evident today. Here we have received a draft ruling from the Supreme Council, which we should be discussing now, on the idea. You will consider the absurdity of the wording of this draft order. I'm reading it to you. "On the break in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until June 27th. With regard to the resolution of organizational issues related to the formation of the Fifth Coalition Council in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to declare a recess.” If you have your organizational questions resolved, why take a break until June 27? When you write and sign something, at least think about what you're writing and what you're signing. That's the first one. Second. There is no need for a break in organizational matters if the laws of Ukraine and the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council are to be followed. I read the rules of work for those who have not been able to read it, but for those who have signed this order. Chapter 15, Article 76, Part 4: “The terms of the distribution of the positions of committee heads, the first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries and committee members shall be determined in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary factions to the actual number of national deputies in the order established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. The rules have been set. We have to work. As much as you can, excuse me for saying that, please? Stop this soap opera. After all, start working and say publicly to the people of Ukraine what you want to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u130	Yuri Artemenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, prepare for Philindash. From the site, please, Artemenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to this subject, which would be called regarding my colleague Alexia Kucherenka. You know, the nakat, which, speaking in the language of the Party of the Regions, his reporter, I don't want to call it a last name, so I don't want to go into the discussion. We have to look at ourselves first. When Alexy Kucherenko was governor of the Zaporozhye region, he was running, crawling on his knees, even here in the hall walking and healing, and then saying something. It's probably a moral issue, not a question for Alexia Kucherenko. Alexy Kucherenko was doing his job, making good Now I ask you to pass the word to Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u132	Strutovich, please, 2:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u133	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. I've only got two minutes left, but I'll start with the classics. "Dear comrades of the Communists! The revolution, which the Bolsheviks have been talking about for so long, has come to an end! The power is transferred to the hands of the Christian and military deputies.” That's what Lenin said in 17. You have often quoted these events today. Today, power moves on to the democratic coalition. And as the Romans said, "If you do not know what to do, do according to the law." Today, refer to the Constitution. 30 days of the Constitution has led to the formation of a coalition, 30 days will end tomorrow at 00:00. 30 days taken to form a government - be patient. Do not speculate on the expectations of the people. People's Ukrainian wisdom says: “Seven times measure, once cut off.” We are a democratic country with such a shameful communist past. We're learning democracy. Democracy is a very difficult thing. She's got to be like a little baby. It needs to be cultivated, it needs to be trained, and it needs to be taught to live by the Constitution. Sorry, you have a microphone. I understand someone's not interested, I understand, well, please, come on, Alexandrovska, I'm asking you. You don't want to ask? I don't think there's any point in asking you anymore. My dears, the coalition is made. She is. And it's good that there's opposition. And it's good that the opposition requires a signature check. And it's good that she's watching every step of the way. This is a normal path to a democratic country, and such a democratic country will be. Let me just tell you, for the last few seconds, today we have 208 times 240 is 54 times 46. Ukrainian humanity, the Ukrainian community once again believed that our country would become democratic. And we, on the democratic coalition, have a huge responsibility to justify that trust. At the same time, we hope that in a powerful opposition, Ukraine will become the only congregation that has been dreamed of by more than one generation. And as for longevity, you know, don't expect your neighbor to die, and it might go unnoticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! I remind you that we are discussing a recess in plenary sessions. On chairman's rights, I'll turn off the microphone if we talk about death. Eugene Filindash, please, the Socialist faction. Prepare Feldman. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u135	Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u136	Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Since there are seven people in the session room who were deputies in 1990, I want to do some analogys. I was a lot younger then, and I was sitting there at the first microphone, and a group of the majority was set up, as opposed to the People's Council, because she said she didn't take responsibility for Parliament's work, and I signed the application: sign who wants to take responsibility for the Supreme Council's work. A total of 308 people signed, but the CD of the Company of Ukraine then reported to the place where 239 had already been signed, thus creating a 239. Today, the analogy is shown in figures, but these are completely different things. The majority, however, remained until August 2001. Regrettably, in the Supreme Council of that call, the majority of the communists who held the situation, and 23 of the first secretaries of the C.C.C. offices, unfortunately, refused to lead the coalition, and as the initiator, I had to say, "Someone needs to wash this plow, take responsibility for the enthusiasm -- that's a stupid thing, as Tkachen wrote. Chewchenko. I mentioned Tuckenka on another occasion. We have become different over the years. You see, there's just a representative from the democratic majority who is now in the group of our Ukraine, and on the left is the man who made him come to Parliament in 1994. And now they're on different sides. I'd like to say the same thing on this example, I'd like to say that after each chamber of parliament it turns out that enemies become friends among themselves, but in the past, when they don't deputize anymore. [[I don't specifically call your last name "no suspects."]] So I would like us to have this sense of companionship and respect for each other, we can't just be friends, because here other conditions, other principles of the functioning of Parliament, save human feelings for each other. Understand that if you are pursuing something else today, you will be recognized for what you were, for what you are standing for, for what your resume is, for what it is. We all have some advantages, and we have some sins, that's what we need to understand, and the truth here is that only the measure of sin is different. And there are absolutely no perfect people. So let's respect each other and, if the coalition asks us today, let's figure it out, because it's not that simple to solve there, you know that: and select the Chief of the Supreme Council, which is a discussion topic, and a lot of other things. Let's let it happen, let's vote, and it'll be better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this session until the end of this matter, because we're going to be out in about 14 hours. Feldman, please. Follow him. That's it. Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u139	Mr. Chairman, I fully support Alexander Moroz, and I would like to say the same thing to the entire room: Stop gagging each other. He's not gonna die. I'm not afraid you're gonna turn off my microphone. Let us do some work. The break we're taking is civilized, we don't want to rush anywhere. You remember, yes, the saying, "The chicks are in the autumn." Too early to predict each other's death. Guys, get your hands off me! You speak for people, you've been chosen by people, you know how to lose and you know how to work. I want to give the floor to Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u140	Please, Oleg Belarus, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u141	Thank you, thank you, Alexander. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko has a great deal of experience working in opposition. We can honestly share with the opposition, we can write you methodical instructions and code of conduct. And I think we're gonna work. So I'm surprised when some members of the opposition, speaking up here, bring it all down to the wrong thing, and it's not like that in most people. This has already been defined in Ukrainian folklore, it was said, “I am not a man, and Homa is not a man.” But today we have to work together. Let's get to work. Any doubt is a waste of time, personal breakdown. Let's make a compromise program of cooperation. There is no other way out, but the people of Ukraine do not expect us to do it, and they follow our work very closely, our conduct here in the Supreme Council. We hope that most parliamentary programmes will be published within two or three days. Every Ukrainian citizen in the Voice of Ukraine, the “Governmental Courier”, will be able to study and evaluate other democratic publications. I believe that this program will be accepted by Ukrainian citizens as their own. I do, because it's ridiculous not to believe. They've been waiting for this for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u142	One minute to Bronnikov, please. Oh, no? Then Kravchenko, one minute. Yes, yes, sorry, sorry. Turn on Bronikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I draw attention to the fact that the orange authority ordered us to live by law. The law is our policy. The Rules are described as how to choose the leadership of the Supreme Council. It does not provide for breaks of some kind, something. You've been in this room for years. Let us act by law, which is the rule of law. And move forward as the population expects us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u144	Yes. We're on the clock, we're not walking away from it. Yes, please. Replica, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u145	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. I'm entitled to a line for those who don't know yet. My last name was mentioned. And I want to respond to those deputies who, speaking from the rostrum, did not speak in substance and mentioned 239 coalitions. There is a bad analogy for some who are here. 239, there was a deputy who was still active, so to speak, speaking, destroying, indeed, Soviet Ukraine and Soviet power in Ukraine. Today it is again in the same coalition 239. And today, personally, it has become clear to me that national socialism was born in Ukraine just when the Soviet Ukraine, Soviet power and Communist Party were handed over on its side. It turns out there were no communists among the 239. Because a communist is a belief, not a party ticket in his pocket. Therefore, I am not surprised that this party ticket in its time was thrown away, forgotten and urged us all to forget about it in the past. We do not forget this, nor do we forget our treachery.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-06-22-m0.u146	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the adoption of decree number 1078, the decision to adjourn the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until June 27, 2006. Once again, registration number 1078. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:24]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 129, “Our Ukraine” – 76, Socialists – 33, Communists – 0. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The next meeting in accordance with the decree adopted will take place on June 27th.
