ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, TV sets, and radio audiences. It's August 4th. I ask MPs to prepare for registration, insert cards. There is a registration, a roll-call registration, of the National Deputies. [[10:07:21]] There are 290 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. There is a proposal to welcome the National Deputies with their birthday: Kinaha Anatolia Kirilovich and Homutinika Vitali Yuriovich. Homutinikik Vitalia Yuriovich 30 years old, Anatolia Kirilovich a little bit more, but we both wish for the good, the success, the creativity, the responsibility, "Our Ukraine", first of all, the health to make it together and to make it a success in their activities for the benefit of our Fatherland. In accordance with the Rules, I hereby announce the requests of the national MPs. Vassila GREECEA to the President of Ukraine on criminal manifestations in the production of holographic protective elements for public purposes. These questions have been prepared accordingly. And I'm putting to the vote the question of supporting this question. Please. [[10:09:21]] For 239. The decision is supported. I'm betting on voting the question of sending this question to the President. [[10:09:45]] For 239. Offer supported, 239 votes in favour. 239. Basil GRICAC also asks the President about possible criminal schemes with foreign passports from Ukrainian citizens in Ukrainian embassies and consulates under the cover of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Who is responsible for supporting the content of this question? I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:10:24]] For 246 This proposal is supported. 246 deputies. Who's in favour of sending this request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:10:46]] For 248 248 deputies supported this request. He will be sent today. Teams of deputies (Capuk, MUC, LICHUK, and others) A total of 10 people’s deputies) to the Attorney General for the abuse of office for personal purposes as deputy director of the Crime Department in the Kirovograd district of Koltirin. And the same group of deputies are calling on the Attorney General to violate the constitutional rights of the deputy of the Alexandria City Council of Griesenka by the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd District. I'm talking about this in order to get familiar with the question of the people's deputies, and that means that these questions will be sent to the appropriate institutions. National MP Sergey Chukmasov refers to the National Commission on Communications Regulation for information on the effectiveness of the use of Ukraine’s radio frequency. This request has also been properly formulated. I'm making this announcement, hoping that the commission will respond accordingly to the request of the National MP. In accordance with the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, a request to the Head of the Supreme Council is made by the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Zubec, concerning, rather than a request, a declaration. Then I'll read it. In accordance with the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an inter-fractional parliamentary association “For the Science of Ukraine” was formed on 3 August. It has already included 25 Ukrainian national deputies, representing all factions registered in Parliament. The Interfractional Labour Union, "For Science of Ukraine", sees as its main tasks: identifying basic principles and priorities for science and technology development; improving the legal and regulatory framework in the scientific field; developing proposals for improving the efficiency of government regulation in the field of science and technology; ensuring the conditions for structural and innovational reconstruction of the economy through high technology; increasing budgetary allocations to science in the coming years within at least 3% of GDP; creating an active mechanism for the involvement of investment resources; preserving human resources, the intellectual potential of science and technology; and improving the system for paying for work and pensioning scientists; increasing the prestige of scientific work; and involving science and technology. Authorized persons and reports from the interfractional association “For the Science of Ukraine” were elected National Deputies of Ukraine Zubc Mikhail Vasilovich, Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich and Karakaya Yuri Vasilovich, and the head of the association elected Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. There is a desire to promote the work of this union in the same way as all the structural units of Parliament, and this will be in accordance with the Rules given the right to defend their position. You know, today, a few questions are included in the agenda. In particular, the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and then the appointment of Viktor Yanukovic as prime minister of Ukraine, will be considered. The Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee, which has jurisdiction over the definition or decision of the judges of the Constitutional Court, finished its work and in a few minutes, you will receive all the material from the judges of the Constitutional Court. Since these materials have not yet arrived, because technical delay has been due to the committee’s later consideration of the matter, I announce a break, a technical break of 15 minutes, until 10:30. Please consider this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I apologize to all the deputies. Obviously, on the one hand, we were inoperable, and these are technical issues related to the work of the relevant services. But, most likely, it's a procedure that was triggered by the fact that the Legal Policy Committee discussed these issues with support, because we came up with proposals late because we were planning to look at this issue in a different sequence. But from the talks and with the representatives of the President's Administration, the President himself, we have determined that in such a sequence, it is necessary for the President not to have the need to be in the Supreme Council for a long time to attend a meeting during the discussion of the matter of the Prime Minister, during the swearing of judges and so on. Therefore, it was necessary to ask earlier about the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. You know that according to article 85 of the Constitution, the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, a third of the judges of the Constitutional Court, refers to the functions of the Supreme Council. Today, five candidatures are involved. And so this question will be brought to your attention. I also remind you that under article 204 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, voting on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court is carried out by secret balloting. This is also a situation that you understand. By the way, this is the norm and the Constitutional Court Act. Now let us take a direct look at the matter. The report is given to Kushnar's committee head, Eugene Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u3	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the committee, I apologize for not being able to speed up this procedure, but we were obliged by the same procedure to perform all the formalities. The Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting all 11 candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court who had been brought before the Committee by the Head of the Supreme Council. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council consider all 11 candidates and decide by secret ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u4	Is there a question for Eugene Petrovich? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Let's do this procedure, let's do this procedure, let's do this procedure, let's ask the Parliament of candidates for these positions, let's ask three, at most five minutes, if there's a few questions, let's see, maybe more of them have to be asked. And then they sit down, and then we go back to the voting procedure in the way that we set out. And I'm going to invite you not even in the alphabet, but in the way that the proposals to the Chief came, depending on the sequence of these proposals to the committee. Thus, you are invited to the rostrum of Galina Ivanovna Baluk, please. You have these on your hands. Clearly, we've made a deal. Doctor of law, professor. Please. Please sign in. No questions asked. Then. Have you checked in? Chukmasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u5	Galina Ivanovna, a very brief question to you. If you were already a member of the Constitutional Court and you had the opportunity to decide on the third term of President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, how would you decide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u6	I wouldn't want to think of coffee thick. Let's first talk about the status that I already am, so we'll give an answer. I have no claim, no appeal to have reason to consider the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u7	Thank you. A brilliant answer worthy of an experienced lawyer, isn't it? Valentina Petrovna Seminouk asks a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u8	Semenyuk. The faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I don't have so many questions I'd like to wish for you. Women’s wisdom, endurance, and work only in the interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Galina Ivanovna, no further questions. Obviously, trust is reflected in the same way, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Tamara Pavlovna Kudlay, attends the rostrum, also a doctor of law, professor, please. Sign up for questions. Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Thank you. We'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u13	No, no, you stay. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u14	Dear Tamaro Pavlovno, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please state your attitude toward changes to the Constitution that have been adopted. How do you appreciate them as a lawyer?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u15	The answer has just been answered that we will appreciate when the application is made. I don't want to have a discussion here, and I don't want to have to raise a council that's just so quiet. Each lawyer has a point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u16	Sergey Kuzmanko asks questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Tamaro Pavlovno, I have a question for you, not in the scale of the assessment of the constitutional changes that have been accepted, but in the more fundamental question. From time to time, calls for a review of the existing Constitution are made. Do you consider it possible to review the existing Constitution as a judge of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u18	Again, in the case of a judge of the Constitutional Court, we will act accordingly. They are not available, and the submission, as we know, may also be submitted by national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We've had that experience in the past, and so has her documents here, Marcus Maria Andriyevna, deputy of the previous congressional meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament, candidate of the legal sciences, deserved lawyer of Ukraine. Please sign up for Maria Andriyevni’s questions. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u20	Dear Mary Andriyovno, we have worked with you for more than a year in this session hall and I wish you could be like you were here: a principle, a fine expert and God give you everything you need for Ukraine, do and go only within the limits of the law and all the best for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u21	Thank you very much, Valentino Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u22	Carpathian Nina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u23	Dear Mary Andriyevna, I want to tell all of our colleagues that the previous Parliament knows you as a man of great experience, professional, human being, truly, impartial and just. You know, as an expert, that the Law on Lawyers for 10 years, we can't possibly accept in this room what is now absolutely necessary. What do you think about the law on lawyering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u24	Thank you so much for asking, Nina Ivanovna. I believe that since the old law was adopted before the 96th Constitution was adopted, it is necessary to bring it into line with the 96th Constitution. He needs further development and new conceptual approaches to the Institute of Lawyers, as well as to the powers that this institution should carry out in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u26	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Maria Andriyevna, you understand the importance of the question now, which mission is put on the Constitutional Court. There's probably going to be a lot of political speculation around our political reform, so I'm going to ask you an extremely acute traditional question. Your attitude toward changes in the Constitution as a lawyer, I stress, not as a judge, but as a lawyer who probably knows the circumstances of those changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the changes to the Constitution were accepted by the constitutional majority of the deputies, and I was part of those deputies who voted in favour of these changes. As far as I'm concerned about these changes today, I can say that my personal vision of the changes made I can't bear how I'm going to react to how an expert, because if there's a question and there's a submission, you know that the subjects of the constitutional application are also the President of Ukraine, and there are the national MPs of 150 people. That is, if such submissions were to be considered, they would, of course, be made within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u28	Bulba Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I have a very specific question. So, Maria Andriyevna, please tell me, do you consider the Constitutional Court to be a possible review of the Constitution? For so far the answers have been, as you know, like: “How many times will there be two? How long do you need?" Now, I refer to you as an expert, do you think the Constitutional Court has the right to review the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u30	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u31	Stepan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u32	Stepanovich, thank you for asking. You know that the Constitutional Court is obliged to consider all submissions made to it by those authorized by the Constitution and the subjects. If there's such a submission, I've already said it before, it's going to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u33	Snack.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u34	Basil Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mary Andriyevna, please tell me, in recent times, some politicians have been using the term “spirit of the Constitution”. Tell me, do you think the rules of the Constitution and the spirit have anything in common?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u35	Well, if you have a clear answer to questions, sometimes you need to know what a person who talks about the spirit of the Constitution, the norms of the Constitution in the concept of norms, and the concept of the spirit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u38	The word, more faithfully, is invited to Angel Anatolyevna Strizevska’s rostrum, also a candidate for election as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Please. Actually, you'd have to sign up for a statement, for a question. In general, it would be good for the entire Constitutional Court to choose women, there would be more justice, probably the same. Please. Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u39	Please give the floor to Stojan Aleksandr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u40	Alexander Stoyan of the Party of the Regions. Dear Angelica Anatoliyevna, well, as a former professional leader, impresses me that you have been a legal inspector in the unions for two years. I'm also impressed that you're a landlady from Winnietsk. But I'm very concerned about whether you're getting votes because you're being rejected by Butt, and it's blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Whether she would vote for you or not, because I think they should be in the hall registering. If they sincerely support you, it would be a good word to say, more than that, to take the ballots. Do you know whether they will vote for you or not? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u41	Well, I think that's a question you should ask the representatives of BUT, actually, I can't answer for them, and hopefully they'll come and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u42	Thank you, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi. Please give the floor to your honorary colleague Volodymyr Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u44	Please. Where's your respectable colleague Vladimir Landik? Please. Give Landy a word. Volodymyr, yes, yes. Talk to me. Turn on Vladimir Landik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u45	Angelina Anatolyevna, you're the judge of the famous Cave Court. It's right there, isn't it? Caversky, yes. And here in the towers, I can't say for sure, I don't have any documents, so I want to ask you here from the rostrum. Is it true that you have some sort of key issue open to you? That's the first question. And the second question. You sentenced Boris Kolesnikov and then acquitted him. So how can we go to the Constitutional Court when innocent people are judged? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u46	Well, let me answer the second question. First of all, I wasn't sentencing Boris Kolesnikov, I was considering choosing a precaution. And all questions relating to the selection of a precautionary measure are taken, such as the specificity, without examining the evidence, and without assessing the evidence in the case files. So it was the Attorney General's office. That's the law. That's the law. Look, please, you're on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u47	May I have your attention, Your Honor? Let's, if the law isn't right, let's change the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u48	The court assesses only the reasons and grounds for the infringement, to choose a precautionary measure. The materials were prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u49	First question, part one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u50	The first part of the question. According to a court order, on July 5, 2006, the Attorney General's Office was charged with a criminal case against me. On July 26, 2006, the ruling was annulled as unfounded and illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u51	Thank you, have a seat. He is invited to the rostrum of Philippe Danilovich, head of the department of labour, agrarian and environmental law of the University of Lviv, please. You don't? The question is being asked. Pizzik Ivan Mikhailovich is invited to the rostrum. A candidate in law, a doctor in law philosophy, an academic in the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, please. Sign up for a question, excuse me. Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u52	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear John Mikhailovich, we see many candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court being offered by our colleagues from the faction “Our Ukraine”. This is a soft question for you: Have you made any political commitments to this position and are you prepared to guarantee to the members of the Supreme Council that you will be impartial in considering the offerings that will come and be considered personally by you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that the Constitutional Court should be shaped by highly qualified lawyers. I am probably proud that I was never a member of any political power, so I did not give any political assurances to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u54	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u55	Dear John Mikhailovich! Garbage, Party of Regions. I'd like to go back to the previous candidate and ask you this question: when the Kolesnik question was raised last year, the judge took action to detain the suspect. Please tell me, how and how should a judge be guided when making such a decision, and was that necessary at the time, and was this such a public danger? How do you feel about being a judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u56	Thank you so much for asking. You know, treating the judge's actions whoever he is, this judge, kind of unethical. If the judge's decision is unsatisfactory, there's an appeal, there's a case, there's a Supreme Court. With regard to the political inclination of this matter, I would like to stress once again that I am a lawyer, and I have no relation to politics. According to the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u58	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear John Mikhailovich, you have nothing to do with politics, but you yourself have said that the judge of the Constitutional Court should be a highly qualified lawyer, with a great deal of work. I'm looking at your work, there's a lot of things here, not one day you've worked as a judge, a lawyer of a small business, a lawyer of the City Bar Association. Please tell me, will you not be distracted by the lack of experience in life, the lack of experience in the work of a judge, the duties of a judge of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. All you've listed is legal work. At first, I worked in the D.A.'s office, so I know the laws very well, and for the last eight years, I've been working for the High Council of Justice. The Higher Council of Justice, you know, it's about the courts, the appointment of judges, so I think I've had enough experience to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u60	Okay, thanks. Please sit down, Ivan Mikhailovich. I understand the time has come to ask questions. Stuck Peter Bogdanovich, a candidate for legal science, a doctor of law, is invited to the rostrum. He speaks free Ukrainian, Russian, Polish, and German. Please. Sign up for questions, a record is being made. Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u61	Peter Bogdanovich, a recognized person, an expert in constitutional law, one of the leading professionals in this field in Ukraine, and if you even look at a list of scientific works, 90 percent of them apply to constitutional law. I am absolutely convinced that it is the professionals in the field of constitutional law who should be in the Constitutional Court, because lawyers, as doctors, are divided into different specialties and do not always face constitutional law. I have such a question, don't you think it's appropriate that, among the qualifications of the Constitutional Court Act, there may also be a requirement that a person should be concerned, directly, with constitutional law issues, because a person who is not prepared is very difficult to adapt at the moment in such a difficult area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. The question is likely to be controversial. And today there is a rule of law, and it is clearly defined. I don't think it's necessary to look at it, it just needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u63	Thank you. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u64	Dear Peter Bogdanovich! I want you to have a legal consult, a public consultation. During the orange revolution, my union colleague Wolintz accused me of stealing $3 billion from the company. I filed with him in a court of honor and dignity. Five court hearings have already taken place, and Wolintz does not appear, although he had to appear and prove that I did steal the property and he did not appear. What should I do with him so that he could appear, and I proved to him that I had not taken a penny of property. And he would apologize because I valued his work in five copies as politics. So tell me how to draw or invite Volintz to come to the Cave Court anyway and listen to my arguments, I'm his arguments and to prove through the court that I'm guilty, because I'm getting a lot of blame from people listening to him publicly. Tell me what to do with my colleague Wolinz, my colleague, as a deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. I'm very, very happy to advise you, but I'll advise you privately, because it's a matter of such a private nature. After all, the Constitutional Court is not a civil or criminal institution. But with great pleasure I am to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u66	Peter Bogdanovich! I ask you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, do not abuse your position so that you can have a private consultation from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. What is more, both of you with the accused MPs talk to each other and come together to consider this matter in court. Please, Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u67	Dear candidate, please tell us, the Constitution speaks of the rights of freedom and duties of man and citizen, as in your opinion, why the legislator uses two words and a person and citizen, whether this is about the different rights of man and citizen or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. No, it's not. This is the established form for constitutional law. Since human status and the status of a citizen have many, human status is a broader concept, the status of a citizen is narrower, human. a citizen, a person who is clearly a member of a State. And, for example, in political rights, in the political rights and freedoms block, a person has a notion of a person who has no citizenship, and a foreign citizen has a certain block of rights and freedoms. And the citizen, we all have the right to vote, we have the right to be members of political parties, so it's a established, life-produced practice. This is quite right, and it is well - founded.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u69	Thank you very much, sit down. The head of Anatoly Sergiyovich is invited to the rostrum, Ukraine’s Deserved Lawyer, was the best investigator for the Ukrainian Security Service in 2001. Sign up for questions. Please, the Ripper asks a question. Rudzikowski or Ephraim, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u70	Ephraim, Party of Regions Please pass the word to John Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u71	Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Golovin, please tell me this question has repeatedly been raised in the session room today. Can the Constitutional Court, in your opinion, change the rules of the existing Constitution, or is it still the prerogative of the legislative body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. I'll talk about how it's written in the Law. If the Constitutional Court is asked to comply with the accepted rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court should consider this. And if it comes to a decision that the changes to the Constitution do not correspond to the Constitution, it can make an appropriate decision, which will be binding on the date of that decision. I mean, a decision can be positive, or it can be that doesn't answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u74	But is it possible to consider the very standards of the Constitution? That was the question, the rules of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u75	Oh, I'm sorry. I was talking about the Ukrainian Law, which corresponds to the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u76	I see. In other words, you can't change the Constitution, I'm helping someone who answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u77	The Constitution is no, I'm talking about the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u78	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u79	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Please tell me you have some legal experience. It has happened that the Constitutional Court is trying to use some politicians as a tool for dealing with its opponents or in order to eliminate any or all of the positions adopted in the Supreme Council for its own benefit in order to either preserve or strengthen its influence or power. Do you have the experience of putting pressure on you from one person or another, and how will you react or react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u80	Thank you. I have experience, 26 years of work in law enforcement jobs, and I have the honour to report that whatever pressure was put on me, I never gave in. This may not be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u81	Carpathian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u82	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I have a question for you. As you know, Ukrainian citizens have no right, unfortunately, to a constitutional complaint. The citizens of Germany, the Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation have the right to do so. Do you think it is possible to settle this issue with the law on the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u83	Thank you. I believe that the work currently being done in the Supreme Council on the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European legislation should lead to such norms being ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I think a little bit like that, I'd say, modest questions come to you because they look at you as the Attorney General's deputy. And what I'm saying is that you don't work because maybe someone didn't notice that he's not working as a deputy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u85	This is my last position where I was in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u86	This is the last position. Okay. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. He is invited to the rostrum of Mikhailo Ivanovich Colossus. Please sign up for the question, he's also a candidate for science, he's been teaching law at the Ostrov Academy. Please. I told you to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u87	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u88	Mr. Mikhailo Ivanovich, you are asked a question by Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u89	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I reviewed the documents that offered us regarding the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, and I found that there were virtually no experts in constitutional law. I have a question for you. Please tell us what your experience in this area of law is! And would you like to know, if you are, have a scientific degree, the subject of your scientific research and the corresponding relevance to your work in the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u90	Okay. I'll explain why there are no experts. The Constitution has not been adopted long ago, and only now does it begin to develop, and those who have worked before, they are clearly no longer easy. This time. Another way. I've been working for more than 25 years, serving as assistant city attorney, senior assistant city attorney, prosecutor of the district attorney's office at Hmelničina, and my last job at the prosecutor's office was to oversee the enforcement of law enforcement in the correctional and labour offices. Now these are criminal executions. I mean, as you can see, given that the Constitution has a very broad chapter, it all touched that. Thus, since 1988, I have been a lawyer and have been constantly in the process. Since I am in charge of both civil processes and criminal proceedings, we have to start with the Constitution, because the Constitution is at the heart of, practically, all laws and in every field of law. I'm a candidate for law school. The topic of my study of the state of defense, I defended in 1999, was “Legal regulation of the penal and educational impact on the convicted and ensuring the legality of its implementation”. On the subject of doctoral work, I'm working on the problem of freedom, the problem of freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u91	And it has to be said that Mikhail Ivanovich was working on the changes to the Constitution that were adopted in 2004, so it already has a direct relationship with the Constitution. Kuzmenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u92	I was working as an assistant to one of the national deputies, you know, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u93	Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Mikhail Ivanovich, I would like to ask you the same thing that I asked one of your predecessors in the rostrum. Please tell me, do you see the possible introduction by the Constitutional Court and the adoption of decisions regarding the articles of the Constitution that are in force?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u94	I must say that the issue of making changes to the Constitution is dedicated to the whole chapter, its number 13. Therefore, there is a legal basis for amending the Constitution. But I heard that. And you paid no attention to my previous colleagues, and I'd like to divide two things here: leading to changes in the Constitution and the basis. The reasons are, of course, the submission of deputies and the reasons, I've already mentioned. The Constitution of Ukraine gives this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u95	Consider these reasons. And the excuses, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u96	To consider the allegations and to make a decision by the Constitutional Court, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u97	Mikhail Ivanovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u99	A word. He is further invited to the rostrum of Mikola Moroz, but Andriyovich, note that there is no doubt. Sign up for questions. We're all relatives. In large numbers, we're all relatives in the world, so. Mikola Andryovich, please. Sign up for questions. Got it. Ask him a question, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u100	Alexander Stoyan of the Party of the Regions. A distinguished high-ranking prospector, a few years ago, I was appointed a prosecutor on behalf of the Supreme Council at the Constitutional Court, where we were tried by the Government, that the Government illegally raised the rates for citizens to residential services. And then, after long sessions, the Constitutional Court decided to refuse the national deputies. But this is a gross violation of the Constitution -- raising tariffs. Now we see the same picture that the days we hear every week are rising tariffs on gas, electricity, utilities for water. As in your view, if we file such a motion with the Constitutional Court, let's say a group of deputies, or an individual MP, or if you support this fair lawsuit, that raising tariffs without a raise in wages, pensions is a gross violation of the Constitution and citizens' rights. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u101	I want to say that if the tariffs went up, there were reasons, or no reasons. Therefore, we need to examine these reasons in detail. If they were, this may be a question that has been raised over time. And if there were no grounds, the Constitutional Court would, of course, decide on the illegality of the decision. But this question is pure, well, a specific question that needs to be explored.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u102	For television audiences, radio audiences, I represent everyone. Since they don't write documents, it's about Mikola Andryovich, he's working today as a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, so he's got a great experience, because coming into that position, you know, you have to have that experience. Petrov asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u103	I'm sorry. I heard the lines. Alexander Alexanderovich is not my relative, but I would be happy to have such a relative.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u104	Can I ask you a question? Party of the Regions, Petrov. Please tell me two questions: Who is reviewing the Constitution: the Supreme Court or the Supreme Council? That's the first question. And the second question is, how do you feel about the state flag being used by the U.S.S.B.T. and disintegrating this as a blanket on the chairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u105	Mikolo Andriyovich, with the permission of Deputy Petrovov, I will ask that Mikola Andriyovich not answer these questions, because this is, to some extent, the applicant's involvement in the political situation, commenting on the political situation. And the functions of a judge of the Constitutional Court are different. Therefore, everyone: ask questions about the subject matter and activities of the Constitutional Court. We should not put the candidate in an awkward position. That's understandable, I think. The question is off. The author removes the question. Landik asks questions. Vladimir Landik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u106	Vladimir Landik, Party of Regions, Luganshina. Please say, in this room these words, “the spirit of the Constitution”, have been spoken lately. How do you think there's a difference between the rule of the Constitution and the spirit of the Constitution? Should not the “spirit of the Constitution ” be used at all, but should we read what is written there? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u107	Of course, we should read what it says in the Constitution. The spirit is a little different. This raises the question of why the Constitution was adopted in 1996 by our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I will answer that question: To understand the spirit of the Constitution, we need to read it and adhere to it. And then this will correspond to the spirit of the Constitution. Please. Please welcome Shelest Mikola Anatolyevich. Sign up for the questions, and in the meantime, let me report that Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov reported the match. He has sufficient training, he has a scientific title, he has all the other documents that speak of his life and legal experience, particularly. Please ask Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u109	Garbage, Party of Regions. Please tell me that there has been a very tense situation in Parliament recently involving the nomination of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic from the President's side. The Constitution clearly states that the coalition is proposing that the Head of the Supreme Council sign a letter, and the President takes up the matter for 15 days and brings it to Parliament. Please tell the President, according to this rule of the Constitution, is it his right to do so? And how can you treat if the President does not introduce a candidate, does he violate this article of the Constitution or does he violate it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the acting judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, so getting involved in such matters, they just make me be perhaps more ethical about the consequences that might even cause my answers. The law forbids me from touching these issues at all. If that question came to a decision of any court, or of the court where I work, or of the court where I am a candidate, then maybe that would be the case. Actually, if you want to know my political directions, my aspirations, you can find that in a private conversation. Because I am officially present to you, so any interpretation I have is official, for an acting judge, of course, I think it would be unethically simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u111	Thank you. That's a very good answer. And for the author of the question, this is both the right and the duty of the President. That's what the Constitution says. We all need to read this document carefully Please, Zablock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u112	It's stuck. Party of regions. Your Honor, the winner. Of course, asking you about your political beliefs may be inappropriate. And my question is, as a judge of the Constitutional Court, you have a clearly defined legal ideology, a specific notion of what is right, what should be contained in the Constitution. So I ask, not as a citizen or as a person, but as a lawyer. Your attitude as a lawyer towards the parliamentary-presidential form of government in the state, and political reform in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u113	My attitude is normal. I'll say the same as yours. Because this attitude has shown what is happening in the State in connection with it. This also applies to the work of Parliament, and it depends on your work and the work of everyone else, the whole state machinery. That's why it's hard to process, but why we're learning and learning democracy, and that's what we need to learn, and in any case we need to learn, it doesn't come. That's why it's hard to go, but I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat. I see the author of the question satisfied with the answer. Therefore, I invite you to the rostrum of Ovcharenko Vyacheslav Andriyovich. He also has good training, a candidate for legal science, and a committee of legal policy has a positive effect on him. [[sign up for questions, yes]] Miroshenko asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u115	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Viačeslav Andriyovich, I wanted to address you as my colleague, since I am also a lawyer. As you know, the Constitution is a law of direct action and the corresponding rules do not provide for additional legal regulation. Please tell me if the state is unable to provide its obligations constitutionally, how to be, and how you are proposing. Whether to make the Constitution a law is not a direct act and then, to the extent possible, to ensure these rights, for example, the citizens, or the freedom and the freedom to introduce them. Or, perhaps, how do you get out of this legal colony at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. I think the Constitution is the law of direct action. That should be the case, and we used this law in elections that were in the state. Because there are clearly regulated standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u117	Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u118	MP Melnik. Please pass the word Karpachov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u119	Karpachov, “Regions” faction. Dear Vejacheslav Andriyovich, please tell me if you would like to make such changes to the Constitutional Court Act, which would allow the court to work continuously before choosing a new summons, or new members of this court. So there's actually no political speculation that's been happening lately in Ukraine about the creation of the Constitutional Court in a new warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u120	In my view, constitutional reforms are under way, so the Constitutional Court should be careful to observe constitutional norms in the State. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u121	Bubbles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u122	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I have a question. Part of the political forces are not ready to accept the changes to the Constitution and obvious attempts will be made through the Constitutional Court to restore powers, such as to the President when they were in the past Constitution. How do you feel about how you will personally view this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u123	This question needs to be studied, so if this question is to be considered, because I am not yet a judge of the Constitutional Court. I think if this question is asked, we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oh, I'm sorry, more questions. Oh, no questions. So sit down, please. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Counting Commission to the rostrum. Jaroslav Suhi. Tell me what you're suggesting. How do you propose to organize the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, two announcements. First announcement. As soon as we're done here, members of the Counting Commission, I'm asking you to get on the monitor, members of the Counting Commission at 12.25, to meet in room number five of the third floor, at this so-called, Counting Commission Hall. All members of the Counting Commission. The secretariat's second request is to release the registration tables, where the voting will take place, and where the voting process itself will take place. It's suggested that we give, announce, Alexander Alexander, a 15-minute recess so that we can make a newsletter and approve, a model of the ballot and confirm here by the decision of the Supreme Council. It is proposed that the bulletin should be submitted, as soon as we now vote, the names of those fellow searchers as judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u126	Okay. Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, one second, wait. This is about, and the 14th article of the Rules refers to the fact that the Supreme Council can make a procedural decision on a secret ballot regarding a candidate for office on a list unless otherwise defined by this Rules and by law. In the event of election, the appointment of a college body as a secret ballot may include more candidates than is necessary for the selection or appointment. Candidates for posts are placed on the ballot in the alphabetical or other order determined by the Supreme Council. Since we do not offer a different order, and the Rules are our internal law, obviously there is no need to vote on this. It's a procedure. Oh, that's the only list. Then let us vote on this procedure: in alphabetical order, one list. Please vote. [[12:22:26]] For 297 This decision is made. Now, please, I'm asking for your attention. Now, as the Head of the Counting Commission has announced, the Counting Commission will meet where he said, I ask the Legal Committee, once again, please, members of the Legal Committee rise to the 3rd floor to consider one issue that we should include in the agenda of the day, on the 3rd floor of the sitting room. On the third floor. Members of the Legal Committee. It's a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u127	The sitting is continuing. . Head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u128	Honourable National Deputies, since the Rules, article 38, which refers to the form of the ballot, stipulate that the ballot is in place and signed by the Head and Secretary of the Counting Commission, the Counting Commission, at its meeting, has decided that the Secretary of the Commission of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Filindash, the faction of the Socialist Party, is sick and is outside Ukraine, the Counting Commission has unanimously elected the Secretary of the People's Commission, a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Tarasov Volodymirimirovich. Please take the session to the well - known decision of the Counting Commission: Tarasov is elected Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to approve the form of the proposed ballot for the secret ballot for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Your opinion is proposed by the Counting Commission. The number commission asks you to approve this form of the ballot. A ballot paper form A-4 white, sheet A-4. It will read “The Bulletin for the Secret Vote for the Appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”. In alphabetical order, as provided by the Rules and the single list, all applicants have been submitted to the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. Signatures: Head of the Counting Commission and Secretary of the Counting Commission I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to approve this form of ballot by voting for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u129	I am voting on the proposal of the Counting Commission to approve a secret ballot in the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. A vote is taken. [[12:48:58]] For 288 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, please listen to the announcement. Rules provide a form of protection against counterfeiting. I would like you to know that the form of protection of this bulletin is established by a reckoning commission on the availability of the signatures of the head of the Counting Commission and the Secretary of the Counting Commission, as well as the corresponding printed press produced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only such ballots will be considered real. Next, you see 11 candidates in the bulletin for the Constitutional Court. We should be with you, listen carefully, we should pick with you five, or square marks, in a certain way, you only put across the five names that you consider to be appropriate, only five. I would stress that if there were six notes, that would be considered invalid. You could have four, you could have three, you could have one -- these tickets would be considered real. If below, if the mark is more than five, such a ballot will be considered invalid. And one more thing, we ask that you give us time to produce your approved form of ballot in the required amount and I make an announcement: the vote, the vote will start in the first hour of 30 minutes, in the first hour, at 1:30 p.m. on the desks at the registration table area. The vote ends at 2:30 p.m. The vote will take one hour. We're gonna need another hour to count the votes, because it's a big list. So, at 3:30, I will be ready from this rostrum to report the results of the secret ballot on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please accept my message to the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Go on, work, and I'll call the deputies. The procedure for dealing with any matter, and the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court is also one of the issues, the rules for discussing the matter. We still have the opportunity during the discussion to express our views on a candidate or procedure. Expressing your thoughts, form this position. During my recess, when I closed the hearings, the MPs came to me with a claim: why didn't you set up a discussion? We have the opportunity to have this discussion now. So I'd like to write down who wants to talk about it for a minute. If they want to, they will. Let's get this show on the road. entry. Bulba, Chubarov, Landik, Derkach, Kendzior, Baranowski, Knyazevitch, Orzvitin, Gemelov signed up. Please take 15 minutes to perform. Here comes Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. The Socialist Party and the Socialist Party faction understands the urgency and relevance of the question of the formation of the Constitutional Court and its work as a body that is absolutely necessary, especially I repeat, in the conditions that are now being created in the country. And that's why we're going to do everything we can to make today's work productive and finally get Ukraine's Constitutional Court. At the same time, when I analyzed the answers to the questions of the people's deputies, I personally felt that not all members of the Constitutional Court, well, potential members, those whom we choose, the judges of the Constitutional Court understand their responsibility in terms and conditions today, because the obvious efforts of individual political forces that did not support constitutional reform through the Constitutional Court to return. To make the former, the old Constitution valid, and above all to restore the powers of the President of Ukraine to those who were in the days of Kuchma. Of course we're worried about that. And that's why I'm asking all of you to let us decide who to vote for, in determining who to give our votes to, in order to take this situation into account. After all, we are forming a parliamentary-presidential republic, I say this frankly 'form' because the Constitution has happened, the changes to it have taken place, but not everything is coming into us, as stated in the Constitution. And that's why I'm saying that we need to do everything we can to form such a Constitutional Court so that it responds adequately to the attempts of the political forces that require the review of the Constitution not to allow this review. That the dictatorship of the law, under the terms of today's Constitution, should take place and have a perspective for Ukraine within the parliamentary-presidential republic. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Chubarov's reaction, please. Prepare Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u134	The Honourable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters, for the Ukrainian Realities, the activities of the Constitutional Court are extremely important. Moreover, because of the lack of consistency of Ukrainian politics, especially in recent times, society has become increasingly disillusioned with their ability to organize. What is the attitude of people to the modern judiciary, in general, I don't think it's necessary to talk here long. Every person who goes to the ordinary court, I'm talking about the judicial system as such, doesn't believe in the possibility of making a just decision. To this day and between the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, due to the high professionalism of judges, he was kept positive. I do not question the professional qualities of today’s candidates, but somehow it seems to me that among the candidates in the court there are those for whom their party membership or their obligation to the faction, which, as candidates, will push them out, will determine them. will be outstanding when they make decisions. To tell you the truth, I've been warned by some of the candidates presented, and I want to explain why. So a year or two ago, a number of leading PPU officials jumped out of their wet pants trying to put Stalin's monument in Crimea. Clearly, the initiators of such an attack could not fail to understand that such an attempt, if any, could lead to physical opposition. Because more cynicism in terms of the Crimea, for the Crimean Tatar people deported, exactly. And now one of the communists is yelling, "Right!" you couldn't have invented it. One of the motivations of the initiators of such an idea was that Stalin was not only forced, but his actions were justified by the fact that some people cooperated with the occupying power. So I'm very afraid that we and the Constitutional Court will have members who, considering the fundamental issue of the development of the Ukrainian State, will come out of such false reasonings, from such ideological institutions as will give them their party. So I ask you not to vote in favour of the nominations proposed by the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u135	Vladimir Lundick, please prepare for Derkach, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u136	Vladimir Landik. A party of regions. Lugansk. I would like to draw the attention of fellow MPs in voting for the judges of the Constitutional Court to see who and how we have whom there? Look, I'm continuing what I said back then, we're all the famous Cave Court. We're looking at a candidate coming out of there. Whose political power? We also know what political power is putting forward this candidature. Nor would it be desirable for the methods of this court to pass over and become the methods of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, let us take a close look. And the answer that Alla Anatolyevna Strizevska, who is here, said that she chose "a precautionary action is to keep Boris Kolesnikov in custody," I would like to ask her again, and who will then be responsible for Boris Viktorovich's lost health in prison? They asked that the president of the skylight should not have run away for him or the people's deputies would have signed for him, and bailed. However, an unusual measure has been taken and not all, but often very resonant decisions of the famous Cave Court we all know in Ukraine. So let's be careful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u137	Rudzkowski is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are really going to make a very important decision -- we are going to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court who will examine the legislative decisions that we make in accordance with the basic law of our Constitution. And I wouldn't want us to make decisions today based on political considerations, whether it's seeing one or another political power, sympathy or not. This is the representative of our Ukraine, speaking from this rostrum, claiming to be the ideological position of the Communist Party and calling for no vote in favour of the nomination put forward by the Communist Party. Perhaps there will be a similar position of intolerance to the position of “Our Ukraine” and the claim then not to vote in favour of its candidates and so on. I think we should just switch ideologies. And that's why I think today we have to decide, to choose our judges, from their professional position, from their principle, from their work experience, that in this high office the judges of the Constitutional Court will rely, firstly, on the Constitution and make independent, balanced decisions in the interests of the Ukrainian community, the development of democracy and within the Constitution of Ukraine. I am asking you today to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court, to take them to oath, to show the whole of Ukraine, to the whole world that we stand in legitimate constitutional positions, in the position of harmony, of understanding. I am convinced that this position of the Anti-Crist Coalition on the very constructive side will once again demonstrate to all the political forces that are worth joining us, to form the only powerful coalition to solve the problems facing the Ukrainian people today, before the economy of the state. Those questions that have not been resolved for months are of concern to people. And they ask, “Why has the Supreme Council not yet formed effective authority?” I hope that we will do so today, just as we have formed the Constitutional Court, will allow it to make decisions that concern people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u139	Thank you, too. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Instead of Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u140	Dear colleague, "Our Ukraine," we are certainly a unique country in which an organ, the only body of constitutional control hasn't been in operation for almost a year, especially when we celebrate the decade of our Constitution, but it's probably our current situation. We have built a beautiful room for the work of the Constitutional Court, a new, modern, equipped. There are plenty of people in the secretariat who have been going to work for almost a year and who are only doing some kind of preparation, but so far these issues are not being prepared for constitutional decisions. At the same time, this defect is already visible to the Supreme Council, since in the past the Constitutional Court and the previous cadence of the Supreme Council have failed to fully meet their quota. Today, obviously, we have a chance when we must pay off the due and the debt we have caused should be owed to the Constitutional Court. We just need to learn not only about the introduction of the European world tradition of parliamentaryism, about life in the parliamentary and presidential republic, but about the creation and functioning of the body of constitutional jurisdiction as it is in many countries of the world, whether it is the Constitutional Council or whether it is the Constitutional Court. And so if we vote for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, we have to go the way we go into a civilized world and not invent anything new here. I asked today whether the applicant had not answered this question, whether he considered it appropriate in the Law on the Constitutional Court to impose a special qualification requirement that a judge could not only be a professional lawyer who has 10 years of legal experience, but also a person who directly embraces questions of constitutional law. Because these are people who are very specifically involved in the law sector. Believe me, not every lawyer is able to adapt and immediately become a good criminal. What is the outcome of the world? There's always the right orientation in the world for science, for experts, for people who are engaged in professional constitutional law and are not involved in any political situation. And then it's very simple for the political forces, regardless of their political orientation, they're always recommending experts and there's no escort to vote for these people or not to vote. Because how can you not vote for people who are actually making expert assessments of all the constitutional references that are coming to the Constitutional Court? You know, according to the constitutional procedure, the court sends such questions to different legal institutions. And now we're such a chance. Among the candidates, by the way, there are many who are truly recognized. The same Peter Bogdanovich Stetsuk whom you asked today, the man on whom everyone was taught, who used to write his dissertations and so on. We don't have to invent a new bike, let's learn that if we don't know how to go, we don't know who to recommend, we're going to hand it over to the professionals who have proven by their way of life that they are able and able to solve constitutional issues properly. And then we're not going to get into constitutionalism, we're not going to get into politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u141	Thank you. We've finished the discussion, and now I have a proposition for you. Honorable deputies. I'm asking for your attention. Mikhail Vasilovich, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, we still have time before the Counting Commission works, it is suggested that we consider a separate issue, a little clarification of the Constitutional Court Act on the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Committee has just sat down and unanimously supported this change. Your document is registered at number 1253. I ask you to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the order of the day. I'll bet on the vote for inclusion in the agenda, please. Here comes the vote. [[13:07:42]] For 264 Thank you. Vasil Petrovich Tsusko, the author of this bill, has the floor. If you don't mind. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u142	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. Since we have distrust in society and politics of an institution such as the Constitutional Court, after one plus one equals one, a decision has been made. It means to reaffirm all the agreements that went through between the political forces when we discussed the issue of the Universal. I proposed a bill amending the Constitutional Court Act, under which the Constitutional Court is not entitled to consider, but in simpler words, to revise the amendments to the Constitution that were adopted in December 2004. That's actually those words. I'm not gonna waste any more time on this. A meeting of the committee, Mr. Kouchner's legal committee, was now held, where representatives of all four factions were present today and unanimously decided to support the bill. That's why I'm finishing my report. I think Evgeny Petrovich will add to the committee Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u143	Vassil Petrovich, tell me the second part of your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u144	Yes, yes, very important. A bill has been passed, the second part is withdrawn, it concerns a few other rules. That's why it's only the first part of my bill, and I'm taking it off as an author. The Committee decided only on Part One. Thank you, excuse me, thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u145	Is there a question for Vasil Petrovich? I won't. Have a seat, please. Eugene Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u146	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, indeed, met with a committee on legal policy. I just want to make an amendment, there were all the factions represented. Because the two representatives of the BUT faction who are members of our committee also participated in the meeting. We unanimously supported the amendment just reported by Mr. Tsushko, who said: “except for the laws of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, which have become effective” and we suggest that the Supreme Council vote in favour of this edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u147	Thank you. No more questions? Is that why someone wants to share in the discussion? Well, that's clear, 12 words that have to be voted out as a rule of law. I therefore put to the vote the whole adoption of the Ukrainian law amending Chapter 4 of the Final Regulations and the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Only the first part, which Alexander Petrovich spoke of, in general, as a law, as a law, is voted out. Who “yes”, “against” – will be identified during the vote. [[13:11:05]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, thank you. At 1:30 a.m., the vote will begin. In an hour, the results of this vote will be announced. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u148	I say the vote will take an hour. So take a time - oriented approach. You can take a break for 15 minutes now and then take part in the vote. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, head of the commission, will tell you about the voting procedure. Actually, you know the procedure is standard. You will receive a ballot for your registration and take part in the vote. I see. An hour after 1:30 p.m., voting will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u149	I'm asking for your attention. We're continuing the morning session. The word for information is given to the Head of the Counting Commission – Dry Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u150	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Protocol No. 2 of the Main Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine heard about the summary of the secret ballot for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on August 4. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included the candidatures Baluk Galina Ivanovna, Golovin Anatolia Sergiyovich, Colossus Mikhail Ivanovich, Kudlay Tamara Pavlovna, Markusz Marija Andriyovni, Moroz Mikoli Andriovich, Ovčarenko Vijacheslava Andriovich, Pizik Ivan Mihajlovich, Stik Petra Bogdanović, Stryzevsky Angela Anatoliyovna, Shelesta Mikoli Anatoliyevich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the counting commission established: First, the number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as 449. The number of Ukrainian national MPs who received ballots for secret ballots was 352, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote was 352, the number of ballots declared invalid was 3, and no candidate was supported – 2. Baluk Galina Ivanovna, number of votes cast as candidate – 9, Golovin Anatoly Sergiyovich – 270; Kolos Mikhailo Ivanovic – 267; Kudlaj Tamara Pavlovna – 9; Markusz Marija Andriyovna – 262; Moroz Mikola Andrijaovich – 143, Ovcharenka Vjacheslav Andrijaovich – 249; Pjizik Ivan Mihajlovich – 3; Steczuk Petr Bogdanovic – 134; Strizevska Angela Anatoliyevna – 84; Shelest Mikola Anatoliyevich – 2. In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and Chapter 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, the Counting Commission decided to consider the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to be the Chief Justice of Anatolia Sergiyovich, Colossus Mikhail Ivanovich, Marcus Maria Andrijajovna and Ovčarenko Viacheslav Andrijavović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u151	Deputies! It'll go on, now. By decrees: 1256 – Golovin, 1258 – Colossae, 1263 – Marcus, 1255 – Ovcharenko, papers will be drawn up on their appointment as judges of the Constitutional Court. Let's talk about the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, let's first welcome them and wish them success in a very difficult but responsible job. [[Applause]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 41 of the Rules, the secret ballot by listing paragraph 4 provides that if the vote for the list is not elected, the required number of persons has not been appointed, we have chosen 5, and the same issue of the agenda continues to be discussed by re-nomination of candidates for vacancies. The Counting Commission invites the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make secret ballots on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u153	Deputies! Taking into account the right of the Head of Parliament, as set out in the article of the Rules mentioned by Jaroslav Mikhailović, and considering that of those factions that voted in favour of the candidates for the posts of judges of the Constitutional Court, but one faction submitted a nomination that did not receive the required number of votes in order to confirm the need for normal cooperation in Parliament, and to send an expert of undisputable high quality to the Constitutional Court, I am submitting to your consideration of your candidacy, Mr. Peter Bogdanovich. And I'd like you to vote for him according to the procedure. And I'd like you to support this. And I think I would suggest that you don't discuss this too much once, because we've already gone through this procedure and the committee has considered and discussed, even participated in the discussion, asked questions. I think that would be perfectly normal. I would like to support my proposal, to engage with your support, so that without discussion, we will consider this proposal under the secret voting procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:05:56]] For 275 Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, Honourable Alexander Alexanderovich, the Counting Commission requests 10 minutes to bring in a pattern for approval, a form of secret ballot. Then, according to the Rules, read the Rules, and it is written there. If you give us five minutes, I ask for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u155	Give him seven minutes to make it, after all. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to sit in your seats, do not disturb, let them work. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in the order of the legislative initiative, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas by Ukrainian consumers for the provision of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation on the energy market of Ukraine. You remember yesterday. Count commission, go where you always are. So, I'm asking you, remember, you've made proposals, you've left behind the vacancies and surnames you've been given. This is about Borisov, Zeynalov, Krutza, Sivolski, Polishchuk, Mishchenka, Kovtunenko, Gorbal and Volga. I, under number 1269, have this decision in your hands. As a change to the decision taken, I take as a complement, more faithful, to this decision, to the decision adopted yesterday, I place this document on the vote. Please determine by vote. Please. [[16:08:17]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. We're waiting for a message from the Commission, the Counting Commission. I would like to announce that the Act on Amendments to the Fourth Chapter of the Constitutional Court Act, which we voted for the afternoon that the Constitutional Court does not include consideration of matters relating to the Act on Amendments to the Constitution, if this law has entered into force, this law is signed and enacted by the President from today. I ask you to wait until the Head of the Counting Commission comes up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Word is given to the head of the Military Commission, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u157	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please, the Counting Commission requests that the form of the ballot be approved for secret balloting on the appointment of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Format is half A-4, white. The form of signature protection is the head of the Counting Commission, the Secretary of the Counting Commission and the image of the established form. The bulletin is titled Steczko Petra Bogdanović -- a mark, not supported by a candidate -- a mark. Please confirm the format of this bulletin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u158	I ask to vote in favour of the form of a ballot on a secret ballot appointed to the judge of the Constitutional Court. Please vote. [[16:13:01]] For 289 Copy that. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u160	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, be careful. Listen to the commission's chairman's announcement. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u161	The vote will begin at 4:45 p.m. on the registration desks, and the ballot papers will have to be made and signed. It starts at 4:45. The vote ends at 5.30 p.m. He reports to the Ukrainian national deputies, don't yell at me, because I'm all wet, don't yell at me. The regulation clearly states how long the vote should last. Let us not be tempted to rescind our vote regarding the respectable future judge of the Constitutional Court. So again. 16.45 - 17.30, in half an hour, we are ready in this sessionary room to sum up the vote on the stand of the Constitutional Court judge. It reminds me again. Voting where registration tables are shown for the licence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? First of all, really, don't ask the head of the Counting Commission what he can't accept on his own. This is the decision of the Counting Commission, and it has to be counted. The other one. I would very much like you to vote, not to leave the wall of the Supreme Council, because it is not excluded that at any time we can gather for an extension of the session, and the commission can count the votes. So I'd like to be in the walls of this room, in the walls of this room. A recess shall be announced, and a recess shall be announced. You'll tell me in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u163	Please welcome the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. [[Applause]] Please sit down. We must conclude the session on the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. I give the floor to Jaroslav Mikhailovich Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u164	Protocol number 4. Meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, August 4, 2006. There have been reports of secret ballots regarding the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In a secret ballot for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Stitchek Petra Bogdanović was nominated. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Digital Commission has established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have been recognized as 449, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received ballots for secret ballots – 269, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have participated in the vote – 269, the number of ballots declared invalid – 5. Stack Peter Bogdanovich – number of votes cast as candidate – 254, number of votes against - 10. In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and Chapter 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, the Committee of Counties decided to consider the appointment of the Constitutional Court Judge, Sticko Petz Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-04-m0.u165	Thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that, in accordance with Supreme Council decision 1261, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has elected the Constitutional Court Judge Peter Bogdanović Stetsuk. We also congratulate him and wish him great success in this position of responsibility. Let's move on to the next question of our order of the day, but before that, I want to ensure that all procedures are followed. I'm asking you to sign up for the evening session. Please. I'm closing the morning session.
