ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV sets, radio audiences! We're starting a meeting in the morning. Please prepare for registration. Enable logins. [[10:04:37]] Registered -305 There are 302 national deputies in the hall. The morning session is open. Appropriately, first announcement. I would like to welcome you all in your presence and to welcome to the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Honcharov Mikhail Alexanderovich. Zeynal's Edward Zhangirovich. Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna and Stasov Love Volodymyrna According to article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce requests, messages, speeches, and so forth. I am announcing the parliamentary request of National Deputy Valerius Bondick to the President of Ukraine for the legality of the procedure for the formation of the CLTC during the 2004 presidential election and for responses to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy to an improper person. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, we must vote in favour of this request and vote in favour of sending it to the President. So I'm putting to the vote the question of supporting this question. Please. [[10:06:41]] For 236 It's supported by 236 votes. I am putting to the vote the question of sending this question to the President. Please. [[10:07:03]] For 240 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President. Now with regard to the performances from the rostrum. Please sign up for statements, information from MPs. It's a recording. Please, Snatcher. Rudzkowski, please. There's 25 minutes left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u2	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The situation today in the state needs immediate solutions to the problems that have accumulated over the past six months since the electoral campaign and the period of consultation between the political forces. Today, the Supreme Council has established a stable majority capable of taking responsibility for the development of the state over the next five years. We've done everything in accordance with the Rules, with the Constitution of Ukraine, we've formed the majority, we've formed the leadership of the Supreme Council, we've started work on committees, we're considering laws that have been prepared by both the people's deputies and the previous government. But everyone in the state understands that if a new majority is formed in the parliamentary-presidential republic, it should form a government that proposes the necessary laws to change the situation in the state for the better. There are problems that we now have in the regions, because there is not enough State budget subsidies to cover those prices that have risen to gas and electricity, there is not enough money to provide and prepare for the heating season of utilities. We have to make changes to the 2005 budget. We need to adopt a new budget on a new legislative basis for 2006 to fill the budget in order to cover the pension deficit, which is now subsidized from the main budget body. All of this can only be done if a government is formed that takes responsibility in a comprehensive manner. The temporary responsibilities of ministers cannot ensure Ukraine’s exit from a crisis situation. No one is now conducting serious consultations on early-term gas price agreements. And that's why I'm addressing the President of Ukraine from this rostrum today. Dear Victor Andryovich, you have read well the submission of the Supreme Council to the Prime Minister. Introducing the candidature and most are able to form the entire composition of a government one day, which will work effectively with the President of Ukraine. We are ready for the expansion of the coalition, we are ready to unite the efforts of both Eastern and Western Ukraine to solve the problems to ensure the future development of the European state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u3	Alexandrovska, behind her, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u4	Respectable colleagues cannot but resent the actions committed yesterday by a number of deputies from the Yulia Timoshenko faction. And today, from this rostrum, I would like to draw the attention of the public of Ukraine to the fact that today, the Yulia Timoshenko Block is actually sabotaging its work in the Supreme Council. What cynicism can be possessed by doing so. Promising to make the people happy, vowing to give their hearts to that people, calling upon them to provide assistance and support in Parliament for Ukraine to be a prosperous State. And you probably see these big boards all over Ukraine and this ad saying, "Your mind, your conscience, your creativity, smart people need Ukraine." Obviously, these people are not in the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, and that is sad. Because, on the one hand, they have been given a parliamentary mandate, they do not wish to give it up. They have been appointed chairmen of committees, alternate committees, chairpersons of subcommittees, i.e. they have made certain commitments to organize work in Parliament and to consider very important bills. Because the committees they have taken on are important committees. For example, the Committee on Youth, Youth Policy. Today, students need serious assistance, education is very expensive today and this committee should have dealt with child health issues. As we see, they sabotage the work of the Supreme Council, they have betrayed the interests of those voters who have chosen them. I think people will figure it out, I think people will understand where words are lost, where honesty is, and where the truth is. And I would like to say a few more words about the budget resolution that we have to adopt with you. Yesterday we held parliamentary hearings and there was a critical assessment of the report that we heard from the Government. Reporting, as you recall, Finance Minister Pinzenyk. Why do we believe that this report was, to put it mildly, not sincere? The figure we have in statistics, which states that the budget has been overrun in 2005, in particular, has been exceeded, but that, while much of the yields have been made forward, more than three billion dollars of taxes have been paid forward. That means we won't get those taxes this year. That means next year we're going to have $3 billion already because they're being paid forward. I believe that we must be very careful about budgeting for next year, because we will indeed be tasking ourselves because it is the anti-crisis coalition that has taken responsibility for the future government and for what programme it will implement. Thank you for your attention. I hope for the support and assistance of the people of Ukraine. I see how many people come to Kiev, we get a faction of communists, getting a lot of letters in support of our position. I am grateful to all who are with us, who are behind us, and who are behind us, and with whom we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, behind him Cranvill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u6	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to some of the issues of the social protection of our citizens. And first of all, you know that every summer, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens, children were being healed in our camps or suburban camps or in health centers. What did the orange team do? I would like to remind you, in 2004, on Maidan, mothers were promised to pay 8.5 thousand times at the birth of the child. It's not bad, in principle, just that some women are having babies, leaving them, taking money. But the orange team promised it would be an extra budget, but it didn't. What we have today is half a billion government debt to the Social Insurance Fund for temporary disability. So, the fund is paralyzed, and today it's just people, our workers have no opportunity to get a relief trip. Even in Alczewsk, when you remember what the disaster was, the children’s health - care services were accepted, so far they have not been counted. I think the government needs to review and repay the debt from the budget right now. The next question is social. Dear colleagues, you heard yesterday that since September they will raise once again by 25 percent for utility, for electricity. Even when our Party of Regions warned that this would be done, we didn't even think that it would be 150 percent. We believe that at this approach today we have 14 percent of the citizens receiving subsidies. With this approach, about 55 to 60 percent of the population will receive subsidies. And that's billions! Will politics solve problems? We need to move on to another topic — a topic that we started when the Prime Minister was Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. We then recorded in our contract, which was signed by trade unions with the Prime Minister, a shift from cheap to high - paying labor. We need to raise the pay rate for Ukrainian citizens. Next, Your Honor. How can we solve the social issues that today, indeed, and the debt on wages, by the way, owes the miners a lot of debt. There was a debt to teachers, doctors, and no single tariff network, that is, no social issues had been resolved. Of course, we need to think about production in order to resolve these questions. And to think about production, we demand that the President immediately submit Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic's candidature to the Prime Minister, to form a government and work normally, not to engage in populism as these colleagues who have buried themselves under a national flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u7	Instead of Chernobyl. The word, excuse me, is given to Platinum at the request of Chernobyl. Out of the way, please. Turn on the Platinum microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u8	Thank you very much. Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow MPs. I would like to point out that in recent times there have been unwarranted accusations against our colleagues about transitions from factions, about some money that no one has seen or knows who they are intended for. So I'm proposing that a special review committee be set up to deal with what money was planned for the election and who they seemed to be in the process of passing mythical and all the rest of the issues involved. I want everyone in the hall to understand that we're here to do politics in Ukraine, and there can't be any unwarranted accusations in the hall for today. And one more thing. I would like to propose as an MP that in the majority who are now formed and working, I propose that the flag be placed in the workplaces of the state in most, the State flag of Ukraine, and so we will do the duties that our electorate has imposed on us. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I insist on the committees created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u9	Mosquito, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum today, there was concern that a number of urgent issues needed urgent consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council. It's also that the Supreme Council is working today without the approved cost of maintaining the Supreme Council, which is that the President of Ukraine is delaying with regard to the formation of the government. Therefore, it is introduced and registered under the heading 1162 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is proposed in connection with the urgent and urgent consideration of urgent and urgent issues and in accordance with article 19, paragraph two, and article 50 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, to make the following changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Order of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in July 2006 No.12-5 of 18.07.2006: to hold the Conciliation Council and Plenary Meetings, morning and evening sessions on Monday, 2006. The Conciliation Board meeting was scheduled for July 24th, and it is proposed that it be completed by morning and evening meetings. The faction “Ukraine” asks, Alexander Aleksandrovich, to include in the agenda the draft decision and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u11	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, in this room we are used to talking only about politics, only about scandals, just about, let's put it this way, the highest and lowest in Ukrainian politics. And we're used to talking about an ordinary person, we're used to talking about human joys, about some human events that are good in life, and you know, one very wise woman -- a great person, a great Ukraine of today's -- she once said, “Fronts and cronies pass by, It's going to be famous and loud. Look for Joconda's smile, It will never pass." And today I want to talk about this humble and famous Ukrainian woman. Today it is exactly 50 years ago that this woman has sat down as a literary editor of the formerly well-known, now less well-known, yet still famous in Ukraine and the famous newspaper Youth of Ukraine. This is Olga Fedorovna Jaroshenko. For fifty years she has served in this office. This is, if someone doesn't understand what this position is, I'll say it's worth it. And when we're all fighting for that word in this room, it's not fighting, it's simply creating it. They fertilize him, it gives him color, it gives him beauty, it gives him taste. And he's doing it with a huge glimmer. From under her light hand today, both academics and professors, doctors of science, various sciences have come out. She, well, she could say that the language teachers were such famous people as Boris Oilynik and Roman Fedorov. Her literary arm was highly valued by Vladimir Sossir and Mikhailo Stelmah. I could call them many more, many names, but it's not in these high names. The fact is, every day, this person is a natural word to the Ukrainian people, and he deserves to be welcomed with this significant date today, right in the higher legislature. Thus we should welcome all the prominent workers of Ukraine who add to the glory of Ukraine, not in political battalions, but in daily labor. So once again, I welcome from you, from all of us Olga Fedorovna Yarosenko, with this half-century service of our own word, and let us worship.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u13	Let's support this proposal. Finally, we hope that she too listens to this broadcast by breaking away from the basic work. And we wish her creative success. In vain, you just didn't call it Lena Kostenko's name, so you could have everything you said in the complex. Please have the word, the word has Popescu Ivan Vasilovich, instead of Larin, who wrote a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Sand, Party of Regions. Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, I would probably not be speaking today if the President of Ukraine were to run for Prime Minister and we would form a government. Unfortunately, though, we should speak out of the problems that the executive authorities had to solve. On 31 December 2004, the government of Viktor Fedorovic Januković signed Order 993-r on the approval of the list of main gas pipelines and gas pipelines for the gasification of rural settlements, which was expected to allocate funds to complete the construction of the pipeline in the region of Glubecko region, amounting to 6.9 million dollars. Regrettably, by Order No. 687 of 03.08.2005 of the Minister’s Office of Tymoshenko, which was also entitled “For the approval of the list of objects financed in 2005 under the State Budget grant to local budgets and the construction of pipelines and the gasification of the population, primarily rural sites, only 500,000 dollars were allocated in the area. Another 5.7 million are needed to pay off debt and launch the pipeline. So today, this pipeline is already done. The area took a loan of 600,000 dollars, but unfortunately there is not enough money to let it go. In addition, another 13 million dollars are needed to gas 10 locations with a total population of 30,000 people in the neighboring region. This is meant to refer to a gas line from the city of the Ancient of Krasnoilsk. Eaters, Today’s Petrovts of the Old Aged Region Sadly, though, this problem is not solved either. In addition, towns between the villages of Lower Petrovci and Upper Petrovci were destroyed in the same Old Age region as a result of the flood. More than seven thousand men were torn apart. To even bury people, you must travel 12 kilometers to get from one village to another in the hospital, too. Regrettably, the executive power of today is not working enough in this direction. There are many other problems that need to be addressed today, but we understand that as long as there is no candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine and no government has been formed, nothing will be done effectively, so we demand that President Fedorovich Yanukovic be appointed Prime Minister of Ukraine without delay, and that we urgently approve him, form a government and start working for the benefit of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u15	Sandler's speaking, he's got a word, more loyal. None. He doesn't want to speak. Baranovsky. I don't see him in the hall. The miner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u16	Eugene the miner, “Our Ukraine” faction. Honorable MPs, honourable voters today, well, there are quite a number of calls for choosing Viktor Fedorovich's kingdom and all problems will be solved, including Ukraine's merger. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite you to conduct an analysis of the heads of the first and alternate heads of the committees, would you find any deputy of the Western Coven, or would you ever go there as a member of the Supreme Council and represent opposition factions to be the heads of the committees and represent the interests of the people of Ukraine? The national flag is mentioned here and is offered to be removed from the hall. At the same time, the hall is filled with flags of different parties. We are quite curious about the compliance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, in a report by Mikola Janović Azarov, he called my last name twice, accusing me of things that I, to which I have absolutely no bearing, and Alexander Alexander Moroz, on this subject, did not give me the opportunity to make a lineup. I understand that Alexander Alexander is the brother-in-law of all times and peoples, but if, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, you try to shut my mouth again, I will ask questions to the regulatory committee and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine about removing you from the meetings of the Supreme Council. Because you have absolutely no right to do that. And the last. Of course, Ukraine needs stability. But Ukraine needs stability by expressing all kinds of population, as it was expressed in the elections, not by shushing, which included Alexander Alexander Moroz. You think you're not the first and not the second? You've become Parliament Speaker. You've really become not the first and not the second, you've become the sixth, you've become the sixth that expresses the interests of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u17	I would like to address the distinguished Eugene Alexiovich and other deputies. Calm down, please, this is the first time. And your insults don't bother me, I'd like to warn everyone who's involved, don't try to touch me, because I know how to answer you. But today, I'm just not going to waste my time and my time on these ridiculous things. And with regard to the fact that no one has ever been invited to the appropriate positions from Western Ukraine, I will give you a vivid reason in these years: Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, a worthy person from the first call of the committee head, First Vice-Prime Minister and so forth. I can continue to do so, but it is obvious that Eugene Alexiovich has a little memory in this regard, so we do not need to talk about it. Here is Martinyuk of Lviv, elected deputy of his time. So it's okay. As for one more detail, I am not a speaker, I am the Head of the Supreme Council, chosen on the basis of the Constitution, in accordance with its requirements and with the requirements of the Rules, literally. If someone does not like it, let him keep his dissatisfaction with himself. Please have the word Bulba Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u18	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I want us to move away from this empty talk about what the Supreme Council should be like, who should be in positions, etc. Finally, we need to understand that all of us in the elections were opponents, competitors in the struggle for power, everyone wanted to have a lot of power, some wanted absolute authority, but the people identified themselves and gave each party a piece of authority that they considered necessary and considered possible given. And that's why all the talk about coalition, not legitimacy, etc. We have to throw it away. After all, we should be ashamed of the people for their inaction and inaction, it is determined by the reasons and role of individual political forces that have failed to achieve what they wanted in the elections. One wanted very much to be prime minister, well, her problem, the other wanted to use other weights, more power. They will not accept that there is a political power that has won the elections -- this is a Party of Regions, whether we want it or not. It has the right to form a coalition and a formed coalition, and let's act now. Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like my statement to be a request to the Minister of the Interior in connection with the fact that I have been addressed by the head of the Kremenchuck District State Administration, John Panasenko. In connection with the unsanctioned malicious theft of state property, namely, not the authorized dismantling of the linear part of the Cremenchucci oil pipeline. And in connection with the inactivity of the district department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the district police department is called the head of Tanasijczuk’s department, who is not taking action, has moved away from the situation, has gone on vacation, and now these thefts continue. I want the Minister of Internal Affairs to respond properly and stop this lawlessness. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u19	Please, Stepanovich, make this request right and send it away. And we take that as a question. He was announced at a Parliamentary meeting. We've run out of time for requests, applications, etc. I made a mistake, and I apologize, for on Friday there are only questions, and I understood that. Well, there's been no practice for a long time, and there'll be speeches. On Friday alone, requests from national MPs are announced. We will consider part of the questions, and Stepanovich helped me in this regard. Now in terms of suggestions and reasoning. Vladimir Mikhajlovich Plaštinski, referring to the establishment of a temporary special commission to determine the circumstances under which he or she might have expressed himself. about the statements made by the faction of "Timoshenko's Yulia Block." Introducing a project on this subject, we'll consider, and if there's a need, even though I don't think there's a need, we can create a temporary commission. What about moving from faction to faction? We haven't had such facts yet. And the same Volodymyr Mihajlovich Plaštinsky today represents the faction "Our Ukraine," that's how I understand it. It's about flags. Who understands that and puts these flags, I don't want to make any comments. And as for putting government flags in every job, I think there's one that unites everyone. These are also introduced from time to time. So I think that's enough in principle. But if you did not put flags in your workplace, you might feel free to carry out your duties a little. But that's your business. I repeat, I see that one faction of stickers has made for itself and feels more comfortable. Let it be what you think is necessary. Mikola Stepanovich Komar proposes to review Monday's work order to amend the decision on the work of the Fifth Council in July 2006, he proposes after the words “24 numbers” i.e. Monday, “Conciliation Council meeting” to complete the words “plenary meeting” and you have this document. Is there a need to discuss this? I'd like to, let's put it in the order of the day to look at essentially. Who is in charge of putting it into the order of the day, vote. [[10:38:54]] For 236 Decision taken. And there's a proposal then, let's vote it out in general and just add the words "evening plenary meeting." Because the Conciliation Council goes in the morning, and other issues are being considered, so is committee work. Who, for such a determination with the addition that I have mentioned, is put to the vote. [[10:39:36]] For 237 Decision taken. Announcing the question of the draft Rules on the release of judges. Reports the Head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u20	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was addressed by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mallarenko Vasil Timofiyovich. Application for his dismissal from the post of judge and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Justice Committee supported the application of the High Council of Justice and introduced a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Vasil Timfiyovich at registration number 1160. This decision-making project is given to you. Is there a need to read it? Everybody's got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u21	Perhaps you should read it because you listen and answer the question: Is his term of office over or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u22	It's over. No, it's not over. That's Vasil Timothyovich next door. There is a statement, and we considered it on the committee and made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u23	His judge’s term ended in October, so it would have to be set here. I think we should ask Vasil Timothyovich himself. The application is prepared, submitted. But if there is a need for him to work before October of the month, considering that we have no one to run the court today. This is what they need to collect specially, and by September of the month it will not be gathered, for the judges on vacations and so on. Maybe. Sergei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u24	Alexander Aleksandrovich, there is a statement, this statement was considered at a meeting of the High Council of Justice and was unanimously accepted and considered. There is Vasil Timothyovich, his right to file an application. We have to consider this issue here in the session room. Ask Vasil Timothyovich, he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u25	Then I ask an important question, and we must respect the Chief Justice. Vassil Timothyovich, please have two words. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u26	Deputies! I have spent my life trying to be honest and objective. And today I have written a statement of release in accordance with the principles that he lived by. I'm not hiding anything, and I'm asking you to release me. My request for what? I have difficult family and personal circumstances. I need a summer period. I don't have a vacation. That's what I'm saying. But in addition, in my view, the head of the Supreme Court should now have the opportunity to adapt. The election will take place in September, late September. The new Head of the Supreme Court should be included in the work on the budget, on construction, on many other issues. In my opinion, it is the new head of the Supreme Court who must enter the new year with a full head. If I work until the end of October and then in November, it means that the Supreme Court and the judicial system will not be properly prepared for the new year. I reasoned that with the new parliament, a new coalition should work for the new Supreme Court head.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u27	Thank you, Vasil Timothyovich. Have a seat, please. Then I put to the vote a draft decision on the dismissal of Supreme Court Judge Vasil Timothy Malarenko. Please vote. [[10:44:50]] For 291 Decision taken. Let us give thanks to Vasil Timothy for his good - conscienceed work as judge for a long time and wish him health, success, and family life as he sees fit. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, you've also been given a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, registered under heading 1161. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on July 19, 2006, reviewed and supported the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges from positions in connection with their application for release. Is there a need to read the draft decree? The committee requests support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u29	Sergey Vasilovich, you're taking away my function. I'm asking. Is there a need? Does everyone have this document or not? Everybody's got it. As to any candidates, do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u30	Yeah, yeah, I'll give you my word. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, please. Turn on the Oniczuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u31	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. The draft decree, which is now announced for voting, includes the names of the judges who are proposed to be dismissed, the name of Moisik Volodymira Romanović, Judge of the Supreme Court. Indeed, the Committee considered his application and the application of the High Council of Justice in this regard. However, it was found that Viktor Romanovich filed a statement in connection with the election of his national deputy, which was directly reflected in his application for resignation in connection with the election of a national deputy, which under the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy gives him the right to return to his post after the completion of his parliamentary duties. Unfortunately, because of Viktor Romanovich’s absence at the committee meeting. Vladimir Romanovich had no opportunity to pay attention to this situation, therefore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u32	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u33	So today, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from Viktor Romanovich came up with a statement asking him to consider the matter, to return to the committee’s consideration of the situation, since it had not been taken into account. If the committee finds it necessary to clarify or change its decision, it will be adopted. I'd like to take this into account, this is the position of the faction of our Ukraine, in terms of the interests of the national MP, the member of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u34	Committee head's comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we are aware this morning that Vladimir Romanović has made a statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and requests that we consider withdrawing his candidacy before the next meeting of the Committee. I didn't see him make that statement. This statement was made directly to the secretariat, likely.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u36	But when Vladimir Romanovich is present, let us give him our word. Please, out of the way. Moses. Give Moses your word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the meeting of the Justice Committee took place yesterday without my presence and, indeed, in the draft decrees, there are reasons for being released at your own request. They are significantly different from those foreseen in connection with the liberation, with the election of the Ukrainian national deputy. That's the question for the committee to consider. I think it's not just the committee, it's the High Council of Justice. I'd like to ask that question for a while. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u38	Volodymyr Romanovich, what do we need to find? You want to be a deputy, or you want to be a judge, say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u39	Alexander Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, I said that call and now I say that I don't think I'm a co-conspirator. After. Now, now. Gentlemen of the Communists, now, now, wait. I gave the first month of 2002 to the Supreme Council, gave up my job, didn't sign up, didn't get any money. The compatibility provides for two paid jobs. Let's let the committee know whether it's a resignation, or whether it's a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u40	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let's vote except for Moses, then. Wait, and then we'll look at this essentially. Wait a minute. I say again, I have an offer like this. Let me finish, I'm talking about procedure too. I say, let's not touch the name of Moses now, vote everyone, and immediately continue the question of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u41	Is it the other way around? Well, please, the other way around. Come on. on this nomination. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, your thoughts as committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u42	I think let's, let's probably get off the list, remove Moisik Vladimir Romanović from the list, vote for all the judges, and then vote separately on Moses. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we can support and support the proposal of the head of the committee, but when we consider this matter separately, we can satisfy the wishes of our colleague and write: in connection with the resignation, in connection with the election of the Ukrainian national deputy. He wants that formulation, and here's just a back-up. So let's write this separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u44	Just a minute. Let's see, the offer's good, I've heard what Sergey Vasilovich said. But if we remove that name, it means that we are preparing a separate ruling for a particular judge. So let's look at the proposal for Moses separately, figure out, and then vote for all together. Please write down who wants to speak again. Please, Ruzick. Zybenko. Then I've got the wrong guy. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u45	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It is that the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the exclusion of reconciliation in the duties of the People's Deputies and others other than creative activities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the judge of the Supreme Court, and the exercise of justice for the benefit of the people of Ukraine is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. In this case, he does not perform this function. And so, in fact, we don't have a function. That's a first. Secondly, it is, indeed, an appointment, not a creative work. He's an official. And I'm sure it's the second time. Four years before that, I'm sorry, Alexander Alexandrovich, we've been stalling and stalling all the time. In this case, Moses, as judge of the Supreme Court, is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And this is a decision that needs to be made today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u47	We took five minutes to talk, didn't we? Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u48	Deputies! We have had a bitter experience of combining the mandate of deputies with that of the executive branch. And today is the same attempt: sitting on two chairs, both here and there. Therefore, I think we need to stop all these attempts in the strictest possible way. Today we must vote and take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u49	Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u50	Baldirev, “Region” faction. Let us determine whether we exclude him from the judiciary or exclude him from the membership of the deputies? What does he want? But any of these decisions will be taken as an amendment to the proposed draft so that there will be no legal conflict and that we will not be told again that this is not a valid decision. That is, my proposal is to take a decision that will be in accordance with his wishes and will be supported by a majority of the room, but will be adopted as an amendment to the proposed draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u51	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u52	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, I think there is no doubt that the decision that we are invited to take today must be taken. Indeed, look at the previous one, in the previous convening of the Supreme Council, Moses has already combined the post of People's Deputy and Supreme Court judges. We know you and I as deputies, we have a lot of complaints about the trainload, about the workload of the Supreme Court. There have been cases pending for years. What is a person who is in office and does not actually perform functions? This means that the very large number of cases that he should consider and work on are without movement. Why are we contributing to such a strange situation? Moreover, the Ukrainian people's representative clearly cannot be of co-operation and a judge. I therefore propose to vote in favour of the draft decision that is in our hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u53	Immortal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u54	Please pass on the word to Onischuku, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u55	Dear Sir, the honourable Chairman, today is not the question of whether to release Moses or not. The point is that when the committee made a decision as a draft decision today, it failed to take into account, and this was a mistake made by the High Council of Justice, the situation regarding the motives and reasons for the release. Therefore, it is suggested that the committee be asked to review the matter and to make an appropriate draft decision at one of the next meetings. That's the first one. And secondly, whenever we vote judges, if a question arises in a judge, we take it out as parentheses, we make a basic decision, and we make an additional decision in parentheses. So there's a breach. And please tell me, there's only a few seconds left, King Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u56	I'm afraid there's not a second left, so I'm not giving you my word. I'm asking, please, Dry is speaking, and Mikoli Vasilovich says, "We always did that at the time, I remember every time we talked about assigning judges." Then, if there were observations, then they were put off, but you can make an exception here, of course. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I don't see any reason to get excited and upset legal novels. On page 12, there is the text of a statement by a respected colleague of Moses stating that he is asking to be released at his own request in connection with the election of the Ukrainian national deputy. What are we talking about here for so long? And your own signature. I'm worried about something else. I'm in practice right now. We're not applying the law that we've adopted on the characteristics of the release of accomplices. I don't understand why there isn't another Supreme Court judge ononepenka in this list, and he could be left somewhere else to write the application. Either he's a judge or he's a national deputy. Whether they had left the Supreme Council and had all gone out for a walk in the park and from the Supreme Court. So I'm proposing draft regulation 1161 in the section concerning the Ukrainian national deputy to vote in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u58	I am obliged to read out Vladimir Romanovich Moisik’s application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles five and 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges and article 99 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of National Deputies, I ask that the issue of my dismissal from the duties of the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine should be decided on the basis of my wish to resign in connection with the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I think it's literally the formulation of what's relevant to labour legislation that should be reflected in the writing regarding Vladimir Romanovich and I think we're going to act here in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws. It's different. I know that Vladimir Romanovich is a very authoritative judge in the Supreme Court, he can be regarded as the head of the Supreme Court there, of course, and he has the right. But if such a need arises, he will be chosen once again by a judge and we will recommend that we support this candidate. And now I'm putting the whole decision to a vote. Please. [[11:00:36]] For 234 Decision taken. I ask no comment. The draft law is considered to be the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Social Charter [[revised]] [[30.06.2006 No 1-1/663 delivered 04.07.2006, submission to the Committee - 21.07.2006]] Reports Natalie Ivanovna Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u59	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the ratification of the European Social Charter has been reviewed, is an obligation that Ukraine assumed when it joined the Council of Europe and signed the Charter on May 7, 1999. The European Social Charter is one of the most important EU-wide instruments for human rights and for the monitoring and monitoring of human rights. The fundamental socio-economic rights that are provided for by the Charter and which are taken over by the States that join it can, on condition, be divided into four groups: The first group is employment, vocational education, and equal opportunities; the second group is health, social security, and social protection; the third group is labour rights, and the fourth group is children, families, migration. The draft law before you is proposed for ratification of 27 articles, including six out of nine mandatory articles, and 74 paragraphs. The adoption of this law will contribute to the development of national policies in the social protection of the population. Every two years, Ukraine will report on the implementation of its commitments. The ratification of the Charter is evidence of Ukraine's desire to achieve democratic ideals, to establish common social standards for all member states of the Council of Europe in the interests of the Ukrainian people. The adoption of this law will contribute to raising the level of social protection of the population of Ukraine, adapting national legislation to European norms and standards in the social sphere and making it clear that the authority of our state is being strengthened in the international arena. The bill is supported by a profile committee and a scientific and expert board. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider ratifying the European Social Charter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u60	Are there any questions? Please sign in. Yeah, five minutes. Please, Immortal. Get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u62	Please, Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u63	Madam Deputy Minister, could you explain how the review of this convention is written in parentheses that it has been reviewed? Who did she review? This is what I understand by the Council of Europe, are these changes in Ukraine already made? This time. And what are the differences in the previous text to another, and was the previous text ratified by Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the Social European Charter was opened before the European Union signed 1961, Ukraine signed the Charter. In 1996, the European Union reviewed the European Charter, extended social rights and standards, added additional articles, and in 1999, Ukraine signed the Charter, and is now making a proposal for its ratification. It is more perfect in terms of extended social rights and standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u65	Basil Hara, please follow him Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u66	Dear Natalia Ivanovna, I believe that perhaps the only step taken by the current orange Government towards strengthening social positions in our State is to ratify this charter, and I cannot say anything more positive as the former chairman of the committee. We have been convened in the past, you know, by the faction of the regions of Ukraine, how many times have we tried to force the President or the Cabinet of Ministers to submit this charter for ratification. But it should be noted that only a small part of those articles that could be ratified have been signed in the treaty. If the Government is preparing proposals, let us say this for the protection of migrants, which we have more than enough, whether the Government has prepared to expand the articles that should be implemented in Ukraine in accordance with the social charter. If so, at what times did you plan to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u67	Thank you for asking, Vasil Grigorovich. As to which articles today we do not propose to ratify. I would like to remind you that in my report, six of the nine required are proposed for ratification. We don't ratify, at the moment, three articles -- these are social security articles, migration-related articles, and these are health-related articles. These are the conditions why we are not now proposing ratification, because not everything is done in adapting Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of the European Charter. But it is planned to continue working to improve legislation to bring European norms and standards, and this is also true for the Labour Code, the adoption of a new edition of the Employment Act, which is prepared, prepared for ratification of the “European Convention for the Protection of Migrant Workers”. And I think that the adoption of these bills will allow, in the future, to expand the circle of articles that will be ratified by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u68	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, follow him Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Natalia Ivanovna, for our radio listeners, I want to emphasize, you have missed, we are not ratifying article 2, paragraph 3, you remember that paid vacation for at least four weeks, this also applies to the lack of proper adaptation of our labour legislation. But I have a question. Please tell me if you think the ratification of this charter will contribute to the speedy adoption of the second reading of the Ukrainian Labour Code because, in principle, there is a legislative guide for us now. [[We will definitely vote in favour of ratification, our faction]] And one more thing. Continued with the question of respectable colleague Vasil Georgievovich Harry, article 19, which would provide for the right of migrant workers and their family members to protection and assistance. This is a very important question for our people, their millions now abroad and already people are coming to us, and they also want to work here in Ukraine. Whether this article 19 provides for a legislative arrangement, perhaps for others.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u70	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich for asking. First. As for, if you'll excuse me, on the second question, it's the protection of migrant workers. When I answered Vasil Georgievovich's question, I said that the protection of migrant workers was being done through bilateral agreements between countries. And the next step. This is a ratification, a European accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Migrant Workers. We are moving in both directions, and we are working with countries to make bilateral agreements that relate to both employment and social protection, and we are working with the President for the submission of the Supreme Council of the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention, the accession to the European Convention, which will clearly allow the extension of social rights and guarantees to both our workers working abroad and others as well as workers who will come to Ukraine and participate in the Ukrainian labour market. As far as the ratification of the Charter is concerned, it will contribute to the adoption of the Labour Code bill in the second reading. I think it's the good will of the people's deputies, but we believe that the Labour Code must certainly be adopted in order to improve our legislation to the requirements, to the economic conditions of today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u71	Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u72	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Please explain why you are not proposing to ratify the first paragraph of article 4, which states: “to see the right of workers to such remuneration as provides them and their families with a sufficient standard of living”. Forgive me if you suggest that a Ukrainian citizen live in a doghouse and eat bread, or that normal living conditions be created in accordance with the European Charter to Ukraine today, which goes into the European Community. Next. I'd like to hear you answer the question. Article 13 you exclude. Article 13 provides for “to ensure that any low-income person who is unable to obtain sufficient funds through his own efforts or other sources, in particular social security assistance, has received adequate assistance and, in the event of illness, to provide the care that his health requires”. So, what, let our man die and whose rights do you protect? If this is a right, so to speak, a citizen must be protected in bilateral, tripartite treaties, then let the owner in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u73	Thank you for asking, Peter Mikolaiovich. I want to say that we are in favour of creating decent, decent working conditions in Ukraine for our citizens. And that's why we're proposing to ratify the paper on one side. On the other hand, the ratification of the Charter involves not only reporting to the European Community on ratified articles, but also articles that we have not ratified and on which we need to take practical steps to ensure our legislation and to ensure that legislation applies to the requirements of the European Charter. We have to take some steps to make wage levels worthy of being at least the minimum wage level than the minimum wage. I think this is a joint work between the government and the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u74	Thank you, Natalia Ivanovna, sit down, please. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Ivan Mikolayovich Bondarczuk, will report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour considers it necessary to support the proposed bill and to approve the European Social Charter. According to members of the committee, like the Main Scientific and Expert Committee, this will contribute to the development of national social security policies in accordance with European norms and standards, because, I remind you, we, Ukraine, as enshrined in the article of the First Basic Law, are, among other things, a social state, it cannot but ratify the social charter. By ratifying this document, we encourage accelerating the resolution of a number of social issues. Of course, by ratifying the European Social Charter, we will only take the first step towards adapting our legislation to the euro standard, for, as the deputy minister's information shows, Ukraine is obliged to consider itself mandatory and for itself not yet all the articles and parts of the second charter, and the harsh questions here and the just indignations have come to light. Some, I think, are very important so far. But we'll be able to ratify them, figuratively, and tomorrow and the day after, and today we'll take the first step. In particular, there is paragraph three of article two, which provided for the establishment of a minimum of four weeks for all working annual paid vacations, so far we have 24 days. As we discussed the draft budget resolution on the committee yesterday, we rightly noted that the wages of work, the more faithful draft budget resolution here in the Supreme Hall, we rightly noted that the wages of work do not always provide workers and their families with a sufficient standard of living, so in time we will be obliged to return separately to the ratification of article 4, paragraph 1, over time and do not have to be postponed for an indefinite period, we will return to articles 12 and 13, which was raised here by Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko, who is talking about the right to social security and the right to social and medical assistance, all the more so that articles 46 and 49 of our Constitution declare this right. Convinced that the government that will form an anti-crisis coalition in parliament will step by step solve these problems. In Ukraine, the problem identified in article 25 of the Charter, which has not yet been ratified, is “the right of workers to defend their rights in the event of the bankruptcy of their employer”, which we stress is not yet ratified. But the committee believes that as of this year, we should go back to the legislative settlement of the problem of paying off debts to employees of bankrupt enterprises who do not have any assets. In this regard, we ask that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be given a three-month deadline to prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council for bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the 25th article of the European Social Charter. But that will be the next step. Today, however, we must take the first step, and I urge you, dear colleagues, to vote in favour of ratifying the European Social Charter, a document that should discipline us and constantly remind us of our obligations to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u76	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, three minutes, please. The sand. He's got Samofalov on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. An excellent report, on the point that the basic principle of the social charter of an updated Europe is social standards, so please tell us why social standards, which in the relevant listed articles, such as, in relation to which no commitment will be made, would be made available so that they are not ratified at this stage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u78	So we've considered this document on the basis of the submission of the President of Ukraine. And that's exactly where the articles and the points that can be ratified today were listed. Personally, I believe that, and I would like us to ratify everyone today without exception, especially that article 25 and articles 12 and 13, but we are still told that this is impossible. So what I'm proposing is that this option is temporary, by approving, ratifying the first part of this document, I've already said, for three months, to consider the legislative regulation of Article 25's decision to pay off the debt of the bankruptcy enterprises and the 12th, 13th. And so that we can finally ratify the rest of the articles by the end of this year. But this will be done by a new government that will form the Anti-Crist Coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u79	Please, Gennady Samofalov. Alexandrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u80	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. Dear colleague, I'd like to get a little comment from you. In your submission to the Supreme Council on ratification, according to your signature, there is the phrase: “the accession of Ukraine to the European Social Charter will give an opportunity to confirm the European choice of state declared by the President of Ukraine”. I stress: “declared by the President of Ukraine”. It is all about the fact that this European choice was enshrined in the Party of the Regions programme as early as 1998. The Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković has implemented a programme of European integration. A European Integration Committee was established in the fourth assembly, where three members of the Party of the Regions worked and today there are 5 members. So, please, I have to be more specific, who declared the European choice?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u81	We're today, I don't think we're discussing this, we're talking essentially about this. We're going to make a ratification decision today, and then we're going to figure out who's first and who's second? Let's ratify this document first.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u82	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u83	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u84	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u85	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear John Mikolaiovich, I ask you to explain and answer this question. We took, Ukraine made a commitment to the Assembly of the Parliamentary Council of Europe that we would be a full member of this European community. We have undertaken to ratify, including the European Social Charter. In this case, there is an idea that we, the people of Ukraine, are entering Europe with some little value. And this is a framework, in principle, the same law that increases our responsibility for European standards. Above all, Ivan Mikolaiovich, we are primarily implementing national legislation on social protection. And national legislation also protects rights and freedoms in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution. That's why I propose full voting, because all the issues you're talking about are governed by national legislation. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u86	My opinion is the same as yours, which would be good if we voted in full this charter today. But let us realistically consider whether we can make financial provision for these commitments today. Well, let's say we start a 28-day vacation today. And today we have a bill of lading for 24 days. And so on. Come on. That's why I suggested, you have heard, the honourable Peter Mikolaiovich, I proposed to give an immediate commission to the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of a three-month series of bills that would allow to fully ensure the entry into force of all articles and regulations of the Charter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u87	Yes, have a seat, please. Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. There's an entry to discuss the subject. Yes, 10 national deputies were registered. Let's take 21 minutes. Please, Herman. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u88	German, faction of “Regions”. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that if we vote now for the ratification of the removals, we will demonstrate to the entire people of Ukraine and to the European society that we have really made another branch, we have put another branch to show how fast we are going to European integration. But we rule out the basics, which is why we should join this charter. We rule out social security, we rule out medical services, we rule out migration. That means we're making a look, a good face, a good mine in the direction of the European Union, well, look, we're joining in, but basically this document is giving us nothing. We must do it once and for all as we go to the European Union, we must join in and make the standards of our lives essentially, not in the form of Europeans. Only voting for the ratification of the Charter without deletion guarantees us to join the European Union and European standards in essence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Samuelk passes the word Simonek. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am addressing members of the Anti-Crist Coalition, the European Social Charter is our commitment, Ukraine, to the European Community to ratify this charter when we were admitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That's the first one. Secondly, it is our responsibility with you that we are, in fact, today trying not only to move to Europe, but also to introduce, in internal politics, the standard of living of our citizens, European standards, not the African approach, but the European approach. Third. We think it's necessary today to first understand that we should not make this decision with restrictions on the introduction of European social charters in Ukraine, because this is how we form our citizens' psychology of low value before the European community, where our citizens will go. Because in their own country they do not have the right to live by European standards as a European does. But I would also like to understand those who today are proposing to remove some issues, especially the Ministry, to understand another. Here's the first paragraph of the first article, delete proposed, delete. Recognize the worker’s right to receive the reward that provides them and their families with an adequate standard of living. And now I'm asking, the average wage in Ukraine is 800 dollars. After the orange government raises electricity tariffs for gas, our family will pay 400 - 500 dollars for three rooms. So what we have for a European country in Ukraine, where income levels today are not enough to pay at least for housing, I am not talking about feeding the family, dressing, teaching the children, going with my children now to rest, whether on the Azov Sea or on the Black Sea, or so on. This is where the problem arises, which today, as representatives of the higher legislative body with political reform, new powers to take responsibility for the standard of living of our citizens, I propose. Let us, honourable participants in our anti-crisis coalition, vote in full as a ratification of this agreement. What is the way out of the questions that the government has put before us? First of all, it would be possible to write in the ratification decision that the government should be tasked within a month or two to schedule the implementation of the articles in this way we would understand that the government is preparing to identify the sources of financing for solving these problems, and that would be a concrete solution to the situation. So I suggest you ratify this charter in full. Once again, we Communists have fought for this ratification and voted in favour of its full ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall. Prepare Vasile Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u92	Honorable colleagues, national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine. I would like to add to the previous report, however, that not only is this so much our responsibility to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in general, to the Council of Europe. And this is the responsibility, first of all, before the citizens of our country and this charter, we were absolutely obliged, to ratify, and now it is right that we are taking those steps. As for the very approach to the introduction of this document, he was preparing that government that is now spending the last days and they are planning all those exceptions, knowing perfectly well that the budget system is completely broken. And the social acquisitions that are declared are actually only on paper, so they've actually revealed their actual fiscal and social policies, this version of the law on ratification of the charter. Our proposal, because we really have to accept it now in a terrible, ruined state, social policy, is that we still have to ratify the charter in its entirety so that we don't hit our citizens. But to determine for the government the requirement, as it was said, to set a timetable for the introduction of individual, possibly final positions of those points where, directly, today's execution is really impossible to do as a result of the normal growth of the economy, which has always been the basis for the rise of social standards, in the past year and a year and a half, has been halted and actually gone to ruin. That is why we must vote today and determine these terms that we can finally go to the full realization of the requirements, the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Charter. Another small moment, I would very much like those political forces that so demonstrate themselves to be very European, very Western, very civilized, to think that there is a European principle of totality in fulfilling their obligations. And when it comes to some charters, they yell at them with two hands "for," for others -- they make these drugs if they don't want to recognize them at all until they're going along and across and across and diagonally, and for the third, especially because of the contract charter. This is not a European principle at all. And I hope that our anti-crisis coalition, and the MPs as well as the factions that will join its work, will still bring us back morally, politically and simply humanly to these principles of European political culture, which is particularly expressed in the clear fulfilment of all the principles, all the commitments we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u93	Please, Basil Hara. Get ready for Kilinkar's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I would very much like us to approach this issue very professionally and very responsibly. The bottom line is that our Government signed a treaty with a respected international organization in 1999. We have struggled for seven years to ratify this treaty, and today we question it. The question is that we can neither add anything to this treaty nor remove anything. All we can do is support him or not support him. That's the first one. Second. Why couldn't we do it for eight years? Because our country has not been able to deliver on the commitments it was required to make under this treaty. Remember, if we accept fully, as we wish, we fall under the monitoring of an international organization, if we fail to do something, we will be disgraced in front of the whole of Europe. Therefore, there is a proposal to ratify what is enshrined in the 1999 Treaty to work on drafts in order to expand the list of articles that are available. The commitments Ukraine is making. Once again, I repeat, the most important thing to understand is that if we ratify those points that the country is unable to pull out economically, we will simply strike Ukraine under the disgraceful proceedings of the International Labour Organization on this issue. That's why I'm asking everyone, please. Because our committee, those who were in the last assembly, remember, we fought for four years to ratify the treaty. Even in violation of the Act on behalf of the Party of the Regions, we have proposed bills for the draft ratification of the bill. Therefore, I implore you to take another step towards expanding the social field of our State, let us ratify what is enshrined in the Treaty of 1999. And our committee decided to torpedo these issues, work on drafts, make commitments and then make commitments. But once again, those commitments that we will be able to fulfill with you. This is particularly true of the coalition to be appointed by the Government as soon as possible. So let's “punch” the new government, give them commitments that it will not be able to fulfil. People are good, let us take this matter very professionally and responsibly. I ask you, please, to vote in favour of the proposal proposed by our Committee on Social Policy and Labour to take the first step towards addressing the social problems that we have in the State and to work on expanding the list of articles that we can adopt six months later, as set out in the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u95	The bike's coming, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, our distinguished listeners. I also propose to accept this document as a whole, without any “reservations”, without any reservations or anything else. Because we're getting a very strange thing. This is about the Charter as a national minority and everything is done to bury it for several years. Now that we're talking about social paper again, we're doing everything we can to cool everything out of this charter, to leave just a skeleton that's absolutely worthless to both our state and our people. And so, I think today will be immoral, if we accept and ratify this charter with the very warnings that have been expressed, expressed, we must accept it fully. Because all who are sitting in the hall and who are doing their jobs today have talked a lot about European choice, about European social standards, about improving people's lives, about the social protection of our people. And it's just strange when we come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we say completely different things. I think we're going to take the right step today and ratify this charter in full volume. I believe that the anti-crisis coalition, which was created in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is capable of solving all the social issues that the government and the President of our country have long ago decided. And that's why we need to ratify this document. For example, I can, as a woman, not only as a politician, vote against the right to social and health care, against insurance, against ensuring that any low-income person who is unable to obtain sufficient funds by their own efforts or from other sources is actually able to provide this medical assistance in full. How can we vote against the normal term of leave? Why we have Ukrainian national deputies, government officials have sufficient leave, why everyone else should have such a cut. We have that Ukraine has several kinds of people. And so I think we're going to make a completely balanced decision and the anti-crisis coalition is taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u97	The word has Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u98	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! Masterful colleagues! I'll try to be concise, but let's stop dealing with double-standard politics. And especially should the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do so. The point is, when it's given, it's decided that ratification of one or the other contracts, charters, and so on, is the possibility of choosing some moments, and some moments still leave behind, I mean, the previous European charter of regional languages, like minorities. When we ratified it, but those who signed it did not take the responsibility or responsibility to choose which specific items would or would not be applied. As a result, we have this problem that exists with the charter of regional languages and minority languages. But let's go back to the European Social Charter as reviewed. Today, we are asked to ratify it not fully. But on the other hand, if we're asked to ratify it not fully, we haven't been offered a mechanism for implementation and deadlines for implementing those articles, just social ones, when we can put them into practice. Therefore, I propose to ratify the Charter, but at the same time give a mandate to the profile committee, the government and the relevant ministry to develop a mechanism for implementing those articles that we are not in a position to implement today in connection with the financial situation in Ukraine. If we ratify in the way that you filed without a mechanism of implementation, it would be a simple declaration. They're going to give us a little bit again. But don't forget, you and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that after the monitoring procedure that Ukraine is under today in the Council of Europe, there will be a post-monitoring procedure when we watch how we perform these points. So I propose to ratify the paper, develop the implementation mechanism, introduce specific terms when we can, and then it will be a real document for the benefit of our people, not an empty chat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u99	Alexandrovska. A little further away from the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are considering a very important, very relevant issue, but it is a very old one. On 7 May 1999, the Government signed the Charter. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should have ratified it, and then it enters into force, and we must fulfil all the obligations set forth in the Charter. For seven years, no Government has been able to submit this instrument to Parliament for ratification. And today we face a very serious question, at least because, in fact, we are not simply ratifying these commitments, we are indeed becoming a State under control in view of the fact that the European Community has the right to demand Ukraine to fulfil its commitments. And I believe that we must fully ratify this Charter today. The MP Hara said that it would be difficult to fulfil those obligations in full and suggested that we accept that we would ratify exceptions today and then we would finish, and so on. Moreover, he drew our attention to the fact that the fulfilment of those obligations would be a new Government, the Government that we will form with you, and we also assume responsibility for its activities. I would like to remind you that the Charter is high standards, it is a plank that will be set before us and that we will strive to achieve. Nobody's saying we have to do this today, tomorrow or tomorrow. But if we don't put such a plank in front of us, it's unlikely, let's face it, that someone is going to be looking for this plan. Moreover, by fully ratifying the agreement, this Charter will provide certain European guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. This means that Ukrainian citizens will be able to seek support, to seek help from the European community. I believe that this will broaden the framework for democracy that exists today in Ukraine. Yes, indeed, we are going to put up a high table. Indeed, we will commit ourselves to the full implementation of this Charter. But isn't that why we came here, to Parliament? At least Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, Katerina Samoylik, says that the position of communists is clear: we have promised voters high standards, high standards of living for our people, and we must work to do so. [[These are members of the Communist faction]] I therefore also support their proposals that we ratify the Charter without exception. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u101	Ivanov, please. Ah, please, the closing statement. I'm sorry. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u102	Allow me once again to ask you to decide on the ratification of the European Charter, the social charter in the form of a bill. No government has been working on the draft of the bill and has been preparing it for ratification, identifying specific points and articles for ratification by international experts since 2002. The first version has already been prepared in 2003 again with specific articles that Ukraine can now ratify and ensure the implementation of these commitments. We can't say that we're going to ratify first, and then we're going to achieve these norms and standards. By ratifying the Charter, we make a commitment that standards and charters are already in force in Ukraine and at the levels of security that are being determined. I just want to remind you that we have ratified and proposed articles for ratification that define the right to work, the right to a safe and healthy working environment, the right to a fair remuneration, the right to an organization, the right to a collective agreement, the right to a child and to a adolescent protection right, the right to a working woman to a job protection and motherhood, the right to a professional orientation, the right to vocational training, the right to health care, the right to use social services, the right of persons with disabilities to self-determination, the right to social inclusion and participation in the life of society, the right of children and adolescents to social, legal, economic protection, the right to pursue profitable activities in the territory of other States, the right to information and consultation, the right to participate in defined and improved working conditions in the productive environment, the right to social protection of older persons, the right to gainful activity in the territory of other States, the right to a right to a right to employment right to a right to a right to a right to work and right to a right to a right to work. I would like to stress this by listing the articles that we are proposing for ratification, stressing that these are important rights in the social sphere, which must be ensured that our legislation, our legislation, is properly implemented. Moreover, I reiterate that those articles and commitments, three that we do not ratify today, we have in mind the implementation and adoption of laws: on health insurance, we improve the social security system. We have an obligation to adopt the Labour Code, to ratify the European Convention for the Protection of Migrant Workers. And then we'll be able to ratify the rest of the articles that Ukraine can't actually do today. In addition, I reiterate that we will report to the Council of Europe not only on the obligations we have ratified but also on the obligations that are not ratified, on the basis of progress in Ukraine and the creation of appropriate conditions for the ratification of the remaining articles. I ask you very much to support the work of many members of the Government and the Committees of the Supreme Council, the work of the Supreme Council of the previous call for ratification of the Charter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u103	Once again, the position of the committee on this subject, please take into account that the discussion was essentially about not fully ratifying the charter, or with the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account objective circumstances? Please, Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I understand and I said that I would personally vote in favour of ratifying our charter, the charter offered in full volume, because I share my soul and my heart. But here we're talking about planks and I think we need to work better step by step, step by step, by going through a plank that we can overcome today, and then take the following boundaries. Because if we haven't been able to meet the requirements of article 46, or article 49 of the Constitution, where all these requirements are written down, essentially. And now we're extrapolating them on the 12th to 13th paper article and saying, let's vote. Who prevented us from implementing the 49th article of the Constitution? So let's take the real steps, and then the committee will be preparing proposals by the end of the year to implement the rest of the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u105	John Mikolaiovich, how should we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u106	As suggested in the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u107	Wait. Well, of course, the offer will be taken into account. All right. Please vote for 5 minutes. Please. Kilincarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u108	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. We propose the second paragraph of our ruling: Ukraine is taking over. Well, ratify this agreement, and the third paragraph to add that to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the article on paragraph 2, paragraph 3, article 4, paragraph 1, article 12, article 13 and article 19 to develop the mechanism and deadlines for the introduction of these articles accordingly, so to speak, to the national legislation and the capabilities of Ukraine. That's how we suggest we write it down. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u110	Okay. The government's backing it up. So I get it right, you can write it down in full terms, and the Cabinet of Ministers by October 1st to make the necessary proposals with a view to meeting the content of the paper and the timetable for the introduction of all the standards of the paper. And I would even like to propose a protocol to publish this paper in the Voice of Ukraine, and I think that people should look at the meaning of what is proposed in this international paper. Anyone for such an offer, please determine how to vote. [[11:49:44]] For 285 Decision taken. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 180 members, MPs, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 1, Our Ukraine – 51, Socialists -32, Communists - 21. Next question. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Priorities for the Protection of Victims of Armed Conflict. The word is given by the Minister of Defense, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u111	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Priorities for the Protection of Victims of Armed Conflict has been introduced. This is a document signed on September 24, 93, in Moscow. It was introduced in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. He agrees with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Ukraine’s accession to this agreement will help create the legal basis for taking the necessary measures to prevent human rights violations, protect victims of armed conflict, and those who do not participate in armed conflicts. The implementation of this law does not require additional financial or material expenses from the State Budget. I want to say a few words besides the official presentation. First, this is a document of the Commonwealth of Independent States. The other one. As you can see, it was still signed 13 years ago, during which time, obviously ten governments and hundreds of ministers changed, it's hard for me to answer why it wasn't ratified before, but what we need to ratify it and thereby implement the internal procedure for incorporating a document signed in the SND 13 years ago to become part of our national legislation, I would ask for its ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u112	Is there a question for Anatoly Stepanovich? Any questions? Please sign up, I see those who wish for less than five minutes, please. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! That's my question. This refers to the treaty, the primary measures for the protection of victims of armed conflict. It is interesting to know exactly what priority measures have taken, and how has it been that, since 1993, the first steps have been taken, whether or not they have been implemented? What does this involve? And how did it happen that they didn't require any budget spending? Because I understand that it is precisely the role of the state in devoting some resources to the protection of these victims of armed conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. I answered him in part, and I can't really say the reason why it was delayed. Why I said I didn't need any extra budget costs, I said the word extra. Because in the framework of budgetary funding, all those State institutions, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, have done so. And because this includes the actual implementation of the principles of the protection of humanitarian law that are provided for in the Geneva Conventions and other conventions. I can say that in the Ministry of Defence, there is already a lot of work done in both the legal and the implementation of these standards, which were then relevant in 93. You can see that the preamble to the treaty itself is the answer to the questions. That being deeply concerned about an alarming situation in the vast territory of the former Soviet Union in connection with armed conflicts of national, religious, and political motives. That was relevant at the time. I can only predict that at some point this has become less relevant, but, unfortunately, there are countries that are actually left in a state of war, they think, are the preconditions for such conflicts. And what's here, even starting with Article 1, is that the parties will work together on a bilateral and multilateral basis, it's within the framework of planned action, but it's also possible to use the SND format that might be more effective in this part. So I think we should support, obviously, by making a mockery of ourselves, as a state, for not doing this before for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u115	Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u116	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. As for the document that we are discussing, it is relevant and needs to be considered. But I have a few points that need to be clarified, I'm asking you to clarify. Let us be specific about what are the subjects of preservation, more loyally, the protection of victims of armed conflict. This civilian population is only included in the military, which also suffered from armed conflicts? Because I can bring in the city of Kirovograd, when a lot of military personnel are left with, for example, no apartments, no jobs, etc. At the same time, 30 km from Kirovograd is a village such as Kirovograd-25, where 21 houses are, 14 five floors, and other cottages.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. Of course, as a national MP, you put it absolutely right, because it applies to people, I want to say it's a framework agreement. It has been ratified, but implemented in legislation differently, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus or Kazakhstan, or Kyrgyzstan, it depends on the legislator who will set the rules. But that the principles referred to, the Geneva Conventions of appropriate years, etc., these principles should be followed. How will we address the specific issue of social protection, of legal protection, of the question of both the courts, and of all others, it is up to you, which laws will then fill this Framework Agreement. Although partially, I already told you, it's full. There are no elements of volunteerism on the side of all the implementing institutions that are involved, which the legislator will not define.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u118	Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u119	Baldyrev. It's a faction of the Regions. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! The document you are presenting today is certainly very important for our citizens who participate in, in addition to their will in armed conflict, or among the peacekeeping forces and we think we will support the document. But I have a question for you: Tell me. The Ministry of Defence has been involved in illegal acts on the territory of Ukraine of military goods and weapons, as well as of the United States military contingent during the end of May and the first half of June of this year on your voluntary decision, or have you been under pressure from the Administration of the President and the American Embassy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. I now present in the rostrum the draft law, as instructed by the President, is absolutely specific and mandated to resolve those issues and to comment on them that are mandated by the President accordingly. If you have this question, really, it worries us, we can, once we're done with this question, I can give you the relevant information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u121	Have a seat, please. Player Leonid Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u122	In discussing the bill, members of our committee noted that the ratification of the treaty will improve the image of Ukraine as a nation that improves the national mechanism for obtaining international humanitarian law and will be a major step in the way of human rights will contribute to the international authority of our country as a rule of law. By adopting this Law, we will demonstrate our State’s acceptance of wide-ranging cooperation with other nations and international organizations. I stress that the ratification of this document is, first and foremost, a humane act of goodwill. For those who doubt the purpose of ratifying this document, I will point out that our nation is a party to the international system of protection of war victims. Ukraine, more specifically the U.S.R., ratified the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Victims of War in 1949 in 1954. And last February, Parliament adopted the Law on the Withdrawal of Warnings to the Geneva Convention. And, in the end, it is equally important that, as a party to this important international treaty, our nation will have legitimate grounds to protect civilians, including Ukrainian citizens, who may find themselves in a zone of armed conflict in the territory of other states. In the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, it is noted that the ratification of the Treaty of Priorities concerning the protection of victims of armed conflict is considered appropriate. The Committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the draft Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Agreement on Priorities for the Protection of Victims of Armed Conflict, submitted by the President and adopted as a whole as the Law. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u123	Thank you. No questions, please sit down. Please, Miroshnichenko wants to ask a question. Please. Ruslan Petrovich, then Knjazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u124	I'm asking Leonid Ivanovich. I would like to repeat the question I asked. And Anatoly Stepanovich. It's about ratifying the first-line agreement. Unfortunately, neither the Science-Expert Authority has given us an open analysis of this agreement. And I think it's going to be very interesting for the citizens of Ukraine, especially those who are the victims of such conflicts. And what measures were actually envisaged, because they were the first steps and how they were done. This is an extraordinary list of actions, which are to whom categories, which articles are to be given assistance or support by the state. So that we are not said to vote mechanically, but to have a clear understanding and question from the executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u125	Your question goes beyond a sufficiently framework, indeed a priority instrument of ratification, and we are considering what we are looking at, in this case, the text that was signed in Moscow in 1993, if my memory does not change where everything is really indicated to start such a great deal of work, which can indeed be expanded in other instruments, including the executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u126	Please. Knyazevitch, then the Red Riding Hood.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u127	Leonid Ivanovich, I have such a plan. Tell me, please, what I think is a global document that is accepted from this issue of protecting the victims of war, namely, the Geneva Convention is completely addressing all the issues that are in this agreement. So there's no need to play again in a regional local document, in a local agreement, those issues that have long been resolved, because on a global level, there is a sense of resolution. And what happened recently when our citizen died in Israel just confirms my thesis. Because I have a question, what is the point of ratifying this agreement now, if all the questions that have been raised are actually solved and it has been standing and does not actually work since 1993, which means it doesn't need to be. Do you not support such a thesis, and do you not see it appropriate to remove the issue from the discussion at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u128	We are in the CIS system today, that is, for this there is a legal framework and all the document that we are talking about today is aimed at implementing all the legal provisions that you have rightly spoken about, but at implementing them within the CIS. Unfortunately, there are problems within the CIS that the title of the document refers to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u129	Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u130	Leonid Ivanovich, I certainly support the signing of this document. I'm asking you to support the hall. The only thing I'd like to pay attention to is two moments. In the aftermath of the Great Homeland War, the Soviet Union has fought in 27 countries, including Afghanistan. There are hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands who have suffered. There's nothing going on. This paper was indeed 13 years late. And second moment. I'd like your personal support and all of us. This year, our Cabinet of Ministers refused to sign a document on the system for the rehabilitation of internationalist soldiers, specifically within the framework of the CIS for the allocation of money and everything. We're supposed to be out of this. I think this document will help us get back to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u131	If I speak personally of my position, I am absolutely in solidarity with you and, I think, after taking this step today, we need to go back to the document that you're talking about, especially to you, what is called to the pain a sign as a person who has suffered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We exchanged thoughts on this document. It seems to me that the Secretary of Defense was as persuasive in his information as the head of the committee. And the questions that Ruslan Petrovich and MP Miroshnichenko and others have asked are natural, but it needs to be addressed in this detail. This agreement deals with the mutual commitments of countries that were formerly part of the Union, the CIS, and the mutual commitment to help those who have suffered. And after the Geneva Convention, several protocols have already been adopted that have developed the subject, taking into account the new nuances that have arisen and the use of different weapons and so on and so forth. That's why there's no extra. You can't overdo it here, so to speak. So I would like to vote on this bill and put it to a vote. [[12:07:13]] For 266 For a total of 266 national deputies, the Law was passed. I ask you to rest in half an hour to return to this hall. Thank you. Break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u133	or those who demean their dignity. and punishment, signed on behalf of Ukraine on September 23, 2005, as Ukraine’s permanent representative to the United Nations. The provisions of the protocol complement the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel Inhuman or Degrading the Dignity of Behavior and Punishment, ratified by Ukraine on January 26, 1987. According to the protocol, each participating State must establish a system of regular visits by independent international and national authorities of places where there are people deprived of their will in order to prevent torture and other cruel inhumanes or those who demean dignity, behaviour and punishment. The Protocol contains provisions that create a subcommittee against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading acts, behaviours and punishments and determine its functions and powers. The Protocol obliges each participating State to create, assign or maintain at national level one or more. or a number of visiting bodies for the purpose of avoiding torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. In accordance with article 30 of the Protocol, any warnings to its provisions shall not be allowed. The ratification of the protocol will demonstrate the invariability of Ukraine's position on security and respect for rights and fundamental provisions. The freedom of every human being, in particular the rights of those deprived of the will of the individual. Ratification must also create the legal conditions necessary for the coordination and cooperation of our State with other nations in the protection of people deprived of their will and other cruel practices. The Protocol provides an opportunity to strengthen such protection on the basis of non-preventive measures. The effort to eradicate torture must first of all be focused on non-admission, which requires the use of educational measures and the combination of various legislative, administrative, judicial, and other measures. Ratification of the protocol will allow Ukraine to provide maximum legal protection against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading forms of dignity, conduct and punishment, which in turn will help shape the positive image of our country in the international arena. I would like to point out that the international community is paying considerable attention to the issue of ratification by Ukraine of this protocol. A particularly well-known law-enforcement organization, Amnesty International, has repeatedly stressed the need to ratify this international treaty. Ratification by Ukraine does not require amendments to Ukraine's legislation. In Ukraine, the legal protection of persons in this area is based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Act. It is also valid for our Ukraine today, following international agreements: the very convention to which the optional protocol is submitted, the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or the Convention that degrades dignity and conduct and punishment, and the two Protocols 1 and 2 to this European convention. The implementation of the protocol shall be ensured by the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, in accordance with the law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights”. In view of the above, please support the draft law on ratification of an optional protocol to the convention against torture and other cruel or degrading forms of conduct and punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u134	Thank you. I don't see any people wanting to ask questions. Is that so? Please, Chubarov. Well, I give it that way, because no one's offering it anymore, just him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u135	Dear Lydia Mikolayevna, if I am not mistaken, in article 18 of the Optional Protocol there is a reference to the fact that those national mechanisms for preventing such a warning to torture, torture should be represented by different, let's say, the population category of Ukraine, including representation and ethnic other groups. We understand that torture is a lot of reasons. The causes of torture, including prejudice in general, are human relationships. If we go to Crimea, we still see prejudice at the point of predestination. I'd like to say, what are we going to do, ask you what kind of mechanisms we're going to create, let's say, well, they're going to warn us about the extension of torture, torture. And are we going to think, practically, about the implementation of this article 18 so that we really have representation in these mechanisms of national different population groups in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. Indeed, article 18 speaks of the state. guarantee the functioning of national independence. the mechanisms, as well as the independence of their personnel. In this case, it is about creating or putting on a separate control mechanism, that is, regular visits to places of deprivation, different places of disqualification in order to prevent these applications, torture, or other cruel treatment of a person. So, of course, the state is laying down. To this day, we have the law on authorized human rights that provides that an authorized person may unhinderedly visit all places of deprivation and have an independent conversation with any condemned person. And so today you can expand this mechanism, strengthen this mechanism, and also join other organizations. Today, we are also involved in the work of prosecutors and administrative commissions under the government administration. It's like a public organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u137	No more desiring? None. Have a seat, please. Nina Ivanovna Karpachev, head of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities and International Relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u138	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like, at a large cost, to have the vast majority of people in this room today, but, unfortunately, we only see representatives of the anti-crisis coalition and those representatives of our Ukraine who, in large accounts, are suffering in a human and professional way, really, because of the problem that is the challenge of today – it is a problem to overcome torture. Yesterday, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations discussed the issue of Ukraine's accession directly through ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and I am pleased to say that the members of our committee unanimously supported the introduction of a draft law by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the protocol. On my part, last year, June 29 as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine, I submitted a report to the President of Ukraine on the need for ratification by Ukraine of the protocol. I am pleased to note that the President has responded almost immediately to the submission of the Commissioner for Human Rights and has commissioned the representative of Ukraine to the UN, Mr. Kuczynski, to sign this protocol in New York on September 23rd. After. This protocol has been initiated to prepare for the ratification of the protocol. I would like to point out that today 21 countries have ratified this protocol, 51 countries have joined us, including our country. The protocol, in fact, has already become effective, it is very and very important, at the international level. What makes it possible for Ukraine to accede to the protocol by means of a direct ratification procedure? The reporter explained these things in detail. For my part, I would like to point out that for the first time a virtual vertical will be created, starting with the United Nations, a control mechanism, and even more a preventive mechanism to overcome such a phenomenon as torture. Today we have a United Nations Committee against Torture, today we have a European Committee against Torture, which conducts direct monitoring, including in our country, and Ukraine, as a member of the United Nations, reports through periodic reports to the United Nations Committee against Torture on the fight against this phenomenon. However, I would like to point out from my practice, the practice, firstly, both the parliamentary and the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights. Regrettably, the old authorities did not recognize the actual existence of torture in Ukraine. Through Ukraine’s accession to the aforementioned protocol, the new authorities have taken this step extremely important to our country, and a mechanism must be built. It is not easy to build such a mechanism, which is actually a national mechanism to be the backbone of this mechanism, but an international mechanism should act as a subsidiary, that is, an auxiliary mechanism, in a subcommittee to fight torture at the United Nations in a way that ten experienced experts are expected to enter, certainly does not cover the entire world. Just as the Human Rights Commissioner cannot shut down the entire country. I kept drawing in my annual reports during parliamentary hearings, along with the previous Human Rights Committee, along with law enforcement organizations that were very actively involved in the fight against this phenomenon. And with our respected journalists, representatives of the media. We held a series of press conferences, including how the Ombudsman held press conferences with victims of torture, which unfortunately didn't all the media risked a few years ago showing our state. And yet to this day we can say that this fight has begun, Ukraine is doing these steps, and I think it's definitely this kind of cooperation and interaction on an international, regional and national level, it will certainly have the effect that our citizens expect of us, primarily ordinary citizens. Well, I'll give you only one number, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. Each year, a million of our fellow countrymen, foreigners in Ukraine, pass through the so - called hamburgers and insulators of temporary detention. Where one out of three of them must, unfortunately, suffer torture, humiliation of human dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u139	All right, Nina Ivanovna, are you done? Nina Ivanovna, I am convinced that everyone in the hall read this document carefully. If you have any questions, sign up for five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u140	I would like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u141	Kushnarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u142	Your Honor, I have a question with a brief preamble. So it turned out to be my fate that last year I spent nine days in prison, including two days in a temporary holding cell, and I have no questions. And seven days in the hospital special unit, which is better called the prison hospital, there are people whose sentences have not been legally enforced. They're stuck in terrible conditions, and many of them before that end up with the fact that the investigation admits they're not guilty, as it was with me. You can't think of it as torture in a straight line, but I'd just like to get your committee's attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u143	Dear Eugene Petrovich, I directly, you know, joined in your brutal detention, which had all the signs of political persecution. But what I want to say in this room, on this side, on the left, and on the right, is that at least three national deputies from different political powers, whose fates I had to look after, and to which, in fact, moral and physical tortures were actually applied. Imagine how many of our ordinary citizens, I've called the figure today, are going through these brutal, in fact, abuses and humiliations of human dignity. This is really a problem that deserves the attention of all Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u144	Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u145	Thank you. The great Nina Ivanovna, we absolutely support the need for ratification of this optional protocol, since, in addition to what was mentioned by you and the previous speaker, it also does not allow the creation of so - called secret prisons, which you remember were discussed a few months ago and even about Ukraine. But there's one point. Of course, many of the competence is exercised by the Ombudsman’s Institute in Ukraine. But in accordance with Article 19, paragraph “C” of the relevant institution has the right to make proposals and observations regarding actual legislation or bills. And so the Institute of the Authorized of Human Rights of Ukraine, unfortunately, does not have the right to take the legislative initiative today. If we ratify this Optional Protocol, we also need to think about whether an institution that will be new has the right to do so, or whether it has the right of the Institute of Human Rights Commissioner, the right of legislative initiative and the right to make appropriate changes to the Constitution and the relevant law. Thank you. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u146	Thank you. What touches your first trailer is that of prisons, so - called prisons, that are virtually secret prisons. This was at a meeting of the Council of Europe where a resolution was actually adopted, as you know, in which European governments were accused of having such secret cooperation with the Central Intelligence Office of the United States of America in transporting suspected persons involved in terrorism. Such an actual problem exists in the world today. That concerns your second question. Yes, indeed, the Authorized of Human Rights has neither the law nor the constitutional right to legislative initiative. This question for today seems to be controversial. I think in this room the MPs will be able to discuss this issue and make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u147	Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u148	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Nina Ivanovna! Certainly, "Our Ukraine" supports the ratification of the Optional Protocol related to the prohibition of torture, and this is certainly on time. That's why we're here. I thank you for the compliments on our Ukraine, we work in opposition mode. And this morning we were looking at personal cases of a number of national deputies, who are members of the same Supreme Court, and we were deciding on the combination of their mandates, their powers. Today. So my question to you is not complementary. Today you are a national deputy and at the same time an ombudsman who is a violation of the Ombudsman Law because you are bound to a certain political power. That's why I have a question. How do you feel about solving this issue by showing respect for Ukrainian legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Lila. This question certainly does not apply directly to torture, but I must say that, in accordance with the Constitution, I submitted a corresponding application to the Supreme Council, which should consider it in the established regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u150	Shewchenko, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u151	Levchenko Catherine, “Our Ukraine” faction. I have a question for you about the work of the future National Mechanism, which should be created if we ratify, and I hope that we will ratify this protocol. How do you see the work of such a mechanism because it envisions involvement not only of authorized human rights, but of other institutions, if it is a mechanism, but not just a responsible institution. And what is the role of the Human Rights Commissioner directly in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u152	I thank you, Mrs. Catherine, for this question, and I can say that in accordance with the Constitution and the Human Rights Commissioner Act, as well as a number of international conventions, the Ombudsman is already operating in Ukraine as a national mechanism in this direction. The countries that ratified this protocol generally do not have such a mechanism at all. This is a major problem, especially for Latin American countries, today. I think it's just the predicted standards in this protocol that allow for different, fragmented mechanisms at the national level to be created in Ukraine. However, if you have carefully read the explanatory note of the Ministry of Justice, in fact all necessary procedures rely solely on an independent body of the Ukrainian Commissioner for Human Rights, who has been operating for eight years in such a regime. It seems to me that this certainly does not fit the office of the Ombudsman, because the Ombudsman is working in accordance with his Law, in accordance with the Convention, of course, the Ombudsman will join and help other structures, first of all, in the executive branch system, to create such a branched network, based on the experience that we already have, directly, in the Ombudsman's institution and on the experience that our esteemed law enforcement organizations already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u153	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss this completely? It doesn't, does it? Would you like to make a statement? Please sign up for a five - minute discussion of who wants to speak may even be used for six minutes. Antipenko, please. Antipenko. Not a wish. Chubarov, please. Aah! I'm sorry, that's not the recording I have, I'm sorry. Samofal the first, he tells Melnik. He's handing over to the miller, after him, Shevchenko. I'm sorry, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u154	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the ratification of this protocol is relevant and, I think, we will support and vote. But I would like to draw your attention not only to the places of deprivation of liberty, but to the violation of dignity, the humiliation of human dignity, and not only in these places of deprivation. You may have heard or very little about the fact that took place on February 20th at the National Academy of State Taxation of Ukraine, which is an education and science facility, or we say, the temple of education and science, where there is a college where children are taught, which is not yet 16 years old, they are only students who are over 16 and 18 years old, the fact of beating people with stakes and the use of shoes and the order was given to the tax police. More than two dozen taxpayers were beaten with sticks in a suitable camouflage. And such silence, such a vacuum is informational and absolutely no response from the law enforcement agencies, and absolutely, if I asked today our Lady Mikolayevn what the reaction of our Ministry of Justice is, it's missing. So I would like to point out that international monitoring is clearly needed and a committee is needed to help Ukraine really become a state of law. But it seems to me that it takes both money and money, and there is absolutely no agreement with the Ministry of Finance. I don't know. I think this is a question that needs to be decided. And one more thing. Yes, European values need to be introduced in Ukraine. But there are, let's say, moral things like me. Like what? I drove around the world a little bit, I was in Sydney, I was in San Francisco, and I don't know if he knows our acting minister of justice, which is what they do, and there's a gay parade every year. Is such a parade needed in Ukraine? Do we need such values in Ukraine? I think that the morality of these issues, it should, as they say, be emphasized and, as far as the representative of human rights in the Supreme Council is concerned, we need to create an appropriate mechanism to provide the appropriate financial, indeed, implementation of this protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u155	Lewchenko will have, and Petra Volodymyrovich, I'll say that last week this was demonstrated in Parliament, so I think you can do it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u156	Honorable MPs, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to express the view of the faction “Our Ukraine”, which unanimously supports the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading the Dignity of Conduct and Punishment, since this is undoubtedly a step that will help us to do our utmost to respect the human rights that are being violated today. What is evidence, for example, of the 100 cases brought in 2005 by the European Court of Human Rights against Ukraine, from which a positive decision has been made, including a large percentage of these cases dealing with torture issues. This is also the number of complaints filed against employees of all law enforcement agencies, all branches of law enforcement agencies, and human rights abuses. But together with this political will to ratify this protocol, I want to say that it does need additional funding, which is not provided, that we need to see how we can use a human rights institution, because, for example, in 2005, when I was working in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there was no initiative to carry out joint checks on citizens' detention. That the representatives of the human rights authority in the regions are not working today, without which we will not be able to apply an effective mechanism for monitoring human rights. And that in the very protocol that was directly initiated by the rights-based organization, the Association Against Torture, there is no room at all today for government law enforcement organizations. The protocol is the minimum, the minimum that the State agrees to. But with political will, we can come up with a plan and do more to protect the rights of our citizens in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u157	Chubarov, please give me your word. He'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Alexanderovich, my fellow Members, I would also like to say that with the ratification of the Optional Protocol we should take care of its proper implementation. Among the experts are different approaches to the requirements of a national preventive mechanism. Since article 17 of the Optional Protocol tells us that not later than a year after ratification, each State - a participant supports, appoints or creates an appropriate mechanism - discussions are now under way to give additional authority to either the prosecution or to extend to the authorized human rights body, the Supreme Council of Commissioners. I think that there should be an appropriate mechanism, or we can support some social organizations that can be viewed every year. And, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I just asked to be given a chance to speak, but I've got three minutes, and I signed up like I'm from the rostrum. I'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u159	Speak, speak, speak. Come on, give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u160	And certainly, my dear colleagues, I have actually signed up from the rostrum, and I have three minutes. And surely, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to article 18. It is very important to me, I hope for you too. The second paragraph says that participating States are taking the necessary steps to ensure that experts in the national preventive mechanism have the necessary potential and professional knowledge. They ensure gender balance and adequate representation of ethnic groups and minority groups in the country. This is a very important thesis because we know that in many cases torture, torture, they will happen because of what is in society among some people prejudice, prejudice religious, ethnic and other things, on some other scale. And we know about these incidents in Crimea. And not only in situations where people are already condemned, but on a trial basis, at the level of detention. And I'd like to, and we talked about it yesterday on the Supreme Council Committee on Human Rights. I want to say here about Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, who was obliged and we thank her, she intervened in such cases. And so, in order to prevent torture, especially in order to avoid the causes of torture, I would like to draw our attention to article 18. And with the creation, or with the support of some structure that will meet the requirements of an optional protocol, to ensure that there is a level playing field for experts nationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u161	Thank you. The question has been discussed. All those who spoke support the need for ratification of this convention, that is, the adoption of the law. So I'm putting this project to a vote. Please make up your mind. [[13:04:16]] For 274 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Cybercrime Convention, which deals with the criminalization of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems. Inno Ivanovna Jemelyanova, deputy minister of justice, reports on this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! You have submitted a draft law on the ratification of an additional protocol to the cybercrime convention concerning the criminalization of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature done through computer systems. The additional protocol was signed on behalf of Ukraine on April 8, 2005. And the provisions of this Additional Protocol provide that each country that accedes to this Protocol has, in its national domestic legislation, a criminal responsibility for such activities as the distribution or otherwise granting to the public of access to racist and xenophobic material as a threat through computer systems, and that the same threat is related to a particular group of persons or race, skin color, national or ethnic origins. Including the responsibility to spread through computer systems any information that justifies acts related to genocide and to establish criminal responsibility for various forms of participation in these activities, such as aiding and inciting. I would like to point out that our current criminal code lays responsibility for these actions by two articles: Article 161 of the Criminal Code, which establishes responsibility for deliberate acts aimed at fueling national, racial or religious hostility and hatred and the humiliation of national honour and dignity and the insult of citizens' feelings in the bill by their beliefs and related to the fact that citizens belong to one or another race depending on their skin color, political, religious beliefs or religion. In addition, the chapter “Crimes Against Humanity” contains article 442ha, which provides for responsibility for genocide, and part two criminalizes public appeals to genocide, as well as the production of materials that call for genocide with the aim of distributing them, such materials. In addition, in this draft law, which is submitted for your consideration, on ratification, because an additional protocol allows each country that joins to make certain warnings, it is also suggested that article 6 (2) should be used to make a warning that any action listed here, in particular, aimed at fuelling national hostility, to spread materials on genocide if they are made with the intention of inciting hatred, discrimination or violence to a particular group of people, depending on what I said: racial affiliation, ethnic origin, religious beliefs and so on. Please accept your support for the adoption of the law on the ratification of the specified additional protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u163	I see you don't have any questions for the reporter? Have a seat, please. Stratovic Volodymir Mikolajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u164	Honourable National Deputies, Draft Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Cybercrime Convention, discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Legislative Security and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This protocol complements the provisions of the Cybercrime Convention concerning the criminalization of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems, does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation, and is consistent with international acts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the ratification of the protocol under the current circumstances would be contrary to the provisions of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act and notes that the implementation of this international treaty requires amendments to the current Criminal Code. These include the recognition of crimes as a series of actions defined in the protocol. However, article 161 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure provides for responsibility for violations of the equal rights of citizens, depending on race, nationality or religion, for acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, and for one possible way of committing this crime in the form of an insult to the feelings of citizens in connection with their religious beliefs or for carrying out deliberate actions aimed at the humiliation of national honour and dignity. Article 442 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility for the commission of genocide, public appeals to genocide, and the production of materials calling for genocide with the aim of distributing or distributing such materials. During the Committee’s discussion, members of the Committee expressed support for further improving criminal responsibility for acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, which would contribute to the effective implementation of Ukraine’s international obligations and would also facilitate the ratification of the Additional Protocol. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, was it discussed at the committee meeting a problem that the Chief Scientific Expert points to, unfortunately, in conflict with international treaties?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u166	By law, I answer, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you for asking. The Ukrainian International Contracts Act provides that draft legislative acts should be submitted simultaneously with the draft ratification to which amendments are to be made. I emphasized in particular that there are two articles in law today, especially in the Criminal Code, which provide for responsibility. In addition, the committee meeting took into account the fact that the Supreme Council had before it a draft bill prepared by Deputy Feldman, registration 1119, which provided for increased criminal responsibility for acts of genocide and racism in relation to others. The Committee therefore considers it possible to ratify the Additional Protocol and hence to make the necessary changes to increase criminal responsibility for the acts mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u167	Thank you. We'll forgive you for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u168	We just weighed everything we could weigh in this situation. This does not conflict with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u169	This is contrary to the law, just as you have pointed out, have a good seat, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cybercrime, which deals with the criminalization of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems. Registration number 0006. Please vote. [[13:11:53]] For 271 The law is passed. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the High National Committee of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Cooperation in Science and Technology is under consideration. Registration number 0008. Is there a need to ask questions? You don't? Nobody insists? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the High National Committee of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Cooperation in Science and Technology. Bill registration number 0008. Please vote. [[13:12:50]] For 269 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we would now like to consider a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual protection of classified information, but the co-rapporteur of the committee of the Committee on National Security and Defence of the Scybinecki Alexander Matviyovich ignored the commission of the committee at the request of the faction. I propose to vote on the transposition of this bill. Who "yes" I ask to vote. [[13:13:40]] For 231 Decision taken. I call attention once again to those rapporteurs who are appointed by the committees to carry out their parliamentary duties. Dear colleagues, today we have Friday and we have an hour on the “Variance”. Please sign up. Freg_00719*002*017&lt;13:14: 00&gt; Please explain, it's on the monitors. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u170	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. Today, we have made important decisions to ensure the social development of the state. You know that socialists have always said in elections that we want to build a socially fair society with high public guarantees for the development of each person. We were going to build a socialist European state in Ukraine based on Swedish model, Finnish, etc. I think the coalition we've formed will work and ensure that the social guarantees we've made today are met. Political stability is also an important issue for Ukrainian society today, so today political stability is not the only concern of us national MPs. In the name of the people’s deputies of our faction and the entire Supreme Council, several hundred calls have already been made by working groups, organizations for the immediate formation of the government, and the appointment of prime minister, and the adoption of a stable development programme for the next five years. I'm addressing the President of Ukraine again today. Victor Andryovich! The whole of Ukraine is waiting for you to give the prime minister of Ukraine so that we can form an effective functioning government so that we can prepare for the fall-winter period so that we can put all the necessary costs into the budget and develop our economy in a stable way. I am convinced that delay in doing so is damaging to Ukraine. It's working groups that say that we can't wait any longer, we can't live in an incomprehensible situation, without stability, without a sense of stability, we can't make plans, we can't plan for the development of our businesses, we can plan for the supply of our products. I am convinced that the new government will quickly resolve all the issues that have arisen between Ukraine and Russia regarding the supply of agricultural products. Other restrictions, I think, are in the common interest, including the President of Ukraine. I believe that he will act in the interests of the Ukrainian people, the whole state. Pass, don't delay. Don't let your counseling fool you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u171	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. He'll be followed by Tsuko, passing the word to the Garden Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki, the Bulba is passing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! If there was a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party in this room, we would have a very authoritative Ukrainian-language expert, I mean, Professor Hanna Scripnik. But there is no such expert, so we will rely on some of our old university knowledge. That's how the windows of our Supreme Council go all day. At the July rally, Timoshenko gave a very interesting address. One of our fellow MPs, with a rather high reputation, addresses the people with the words: “Dear ‘Jules love. ’ You know, when you hear that, you can get down to it. Dear “air love”, dear “Victorians”, dear “Jule love” and so on, here, if you start playing on names, there is much to be achieved here. But you understand very well that I want to talk not about the creation of the neologists, nor about whose names to make them. It's about something else. It's about how things go today, but let's put it this way: people are being pushed around by names, surnames, and so on. And when one of these popular politicians "exposes" on "flows" of lies, it's very difficult for people to understand what it is and where it's coming from. And that's already, you know, manipulating a little bit more than manipulating names, manipulating something else. It's just that people are simply being fooled. This is where we heard yesterday that they're "sixty" dollars. Show me where he is. It has been said that there are millions of people here, whether God knows him for how many tens of millions, in their pockets or in suitcases or suitcases. That's all, you know, lies. But this is what they want to build a conflict in society. And these "julelovers" are unfortunate people who believe one of the popular politicians, they can be involved in a major civil conflict. That's why we need everyone, I think they're going to be driving these "julelovers" in the regions right now. We too need to tell people what the truth is in these days that we will be there. What is the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Tsuko gives his word to Michael Sadov, followed by Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u174	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I was forced to take the word today and the situation in the villages and towns where sugar factories were fully operational at the time. As we know, there were about 200 factories in Ukraine, in my town of Kirovograd, 11. In the past, a bill banning cutting out sugar factories was twice considered. But unfortunately, the President of Ukraine has vetoed both times. And that's the situation. On July 1, after long protection, workers cut out Salkov’s sugar plant in Kirovgrad. I am addressing President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine and I am reading three such documents, three such statements that came from this village. The executive committee of the Salkovsky Village Council is aware that Tavrida-Service 2004 voluntarily took over the land area of 43.46 ha, which belongs to the Salkova Village Council on the right of ownership, which is a gross violation of the relevant applicable legislation. Please take action. Another document. During the privatisation of the Salkovsky Sugar Factory, the charter clearly recorded the use of equipment exclusively for the production of sugar without changing the profile. Regrettably, the cutting-off of the Salkov sugar plant without the agreement of shareholders has begun, and the procurator of the Heivoron district says that the shareholders belong only to the factory’s fence. The score of the equipment is taken from how. One example. The 1995 10 - year - old machine is estimated at 70 copies in two bracelets. There's a fake in the bankruptcy process, and so on. And a statement. The territorial community of Salkovo Village refers to you as responsible authorities, that appropriate community in the village deals with such matters as shooting with firearms, threatening villages with Salkovo’s murder, and so on. I will not fully read this statement, but I am addressing the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk: please return to the people of Ukraine. You're going to end up with a sugar industry, and if you don't need a factory, you have to take proper steps to normalize it. And please apply for the Prime Minister, and he will help you to deal with the sugar industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u175	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Samylik conveys the word, the faction of Communists, to prepare Alexia Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u176	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. The Communist faction is outraged by another decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase electricity tariffs from 1 September this year, which will make it very difficult as internal social problems, and given what has happened today, and externally, we have new issues. We are witnessing today that the Government, in deciding to increase electricity tariffs, is doing so unjustifiably, without combining with practical steps to eliminate unemployment, to raise wages, to control food prices, medicines and much more. In expressing our outrage, we, as members of the anti-crisis coalition, propose to proceed immediately today to the formation of the Government, and I believe that President Yushchenko deliberately and deliberately is blocking today's timely consideration of the formation of the Government. I would also like to draw your attention today to the fact that rising electricity tariffs is the biggest foreign policy issue of our relationship with Russia. And Yushchenko took another step today, which does not relieve the tension or bring us closer to Russia, but practically ignored the informal meeting of the chapters of the CIS and did not go to this summit. It would be very important to us, for the people of Ukraine, on the basis that only the 8th Summit, which discussed world trends, had ended. The issues that concern humanity today and, of course, today at the informal summit of the CIS States could be discussed in the development of bilateral relations, particularly Ukraine and Russia, today the problem of protecting the market, the products of our domestic producer, which is being implemented in the markets of Russia and Belarus. Issues relating to the maintenance of Ukraine's military and industrial capacities and agreed positions in external markets could be discussed. This act shows that the President of Ukraine has shown non-professionalism and “immediateness”. As a result, this affects the well-being of the people of Ukraine and our world authority. But once again, I would like to draw your attention, distinguished colleagues, to our radio audiences: in this case, there is a distortion of nothing justifiable, political or economic, towards pro-American politics alone. And this will lead to Ukraine's distance from Russia, from Belarus, from the post-Soviet space, from the CIS space, which will complicate our internal situation. And I believe that we must immediately proceed with the Government's approval programme on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u177	Thank you. Malinovsky Alexei I can't see. Viennese. Same thing. Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions. After him, Garmash. I can't see. Bondarchuk prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u178	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, our listeners and citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to make this brief presentation with a very simple consideration of a few legal nuances that now sound very and very much speculation. Since we are constantly being convinced that there are plans for the dissolution of Parliament, that somewhere our Anti-Crist Coalition has violated certain articles unknown to no one, not named, the Constitution and the Rules, I would like to think about it. You all remember how during one working week we did not really allow the work of the Supreme Council, blocked the sessions for one purpose, so that the constitutional standards and rules of the Rules that flow directly from the Constitution were clearly fulfilled. We have done our part, and we are grateful to all the colleagues in the Supreme Council for all the five factions that eventually supported this position, which was the reason why the work was unlocked. Yet after that, we survived more than a week of this cacophony of uninterrupted bells, screams, screams, images there, eggplants and everything in the world, that only the most brutal things could be invented in the hall and could not be understood for what purpose this is being done. Today, the head of the Supreme Council has named Lina Costenko. I'd like to quote words from one of her poetry under this situation. “You’re looking, well, what is it, Nor will a double pair of prisms help. Lensa. People seem to have everything human, But the soul has not yet come down from the tree.” Unfortunately, that's what we've seen, because the fight wasn't about upholding the rules of the Constitution, it wasn't about upholding the laws, it was about one thing: if it wasn't Julia Timoshenko, Prime Minister, it meant that this country would be declared illegal. [[Not just Parliament, not just the government, but the whole country!]] In this regard, this part of the deputies today sabotages the work of the Supreme Council session, in fact, when they receive a salary, they refuse to perform their constitutional duties. The last words that now sound from all the press conferences of the bloc are that they have a certain plan for the dissolution of parliament. So the representatives of the Anti-Cristian Coalition are convinced and know that they could win a decisive victory in the event of an out-of-election election and form a peaceful government without the political forces that are destroying it, but we insist that it will not happen because we don't want a split in society, and we insist that this parliament will work for the entire period. With regard to the words that 150 deputies can make their credentials and that Parliament will stop their work, I say that according to our joint decision on Tuesday, I will personally submit a statement on behalf of them that I will make a separate delegation for each seat. If Julia Timoshenko has a word, let her sign it first and make it, and we'll vote on it. And then the Supreme Council itself will determine who really has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u179	Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, Socialist faction. He's got Lilia Grigorovich on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u180	Dear comrades, I don't think I'm going to use the full time spent speaking. I would just like to support John Sidorovich Boko in the sense that we all need to use the Saturday and Sunday as much as possible to explain the current situation in Parliament, in the Government, about the formation of the government, who is blocking this process and so on, and so on, why can't we work properly so far? And, in general, why should we be hostages of a lovely woman and victims of her unrestrained desire to be prime minister at all costs? And why, after all, should the entire nation put to death? And I would like to finish my speech by addressing those who still believe in the Messianic role of this woman, saying: "O men, men, unbreakers, What did the kings turn out to you? What did you think your dogs were for? You are not dogs.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. She'll be followed by Danieline.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u182	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable Colleagues, the National Deputies, the Honourable Ukrainian Community, indeed, go to the factions of some of the factions from the labour groups that require immediate disclosure, although no one is a block, a work called an “anti-crisis coalition”. Other factions are sent by letters from the same or other labor groups that, to us, require immediate dissolution. Those who have betrayed want to hide from the president, those who have failed want to do the same. Why Was It Lost to One Another in 2004? Because they put national interests much lower than their own. Why did you fail in the orange coalition today? Because they're ambitions. Dear friends, many women were mentioned here today. In the morning, the well - deserved Jubilee of the famous literary editor, Jaroshenko, was quoted as quoting Lina Kostenko. I want to remind you today, Your Honor, that today, July 21, 100 years of the birth of Elena Telliga, another woman. We talk a lot about women today. Helen Telliga was killed when she was young, and was shot in Baba's Yar in the year 42. She was born in Siberia, spent her childhood in the Czech Republic, her youth in Poland. I felt Ukraine the day I heard them laughing from the Ukrainian language. And she talked, and she started writing poems. And when there was an opportunity in 41st year, along with Ulas Semchuk, her husband Michael Teliga and many others came from Poland to Ukraine, where, for activities in favour of Ukrainian statehood, she was arrested by fascists and shot. The point is that today we have inherited about forty verses, the inscription in the prison cell “Here was Olena Telliga and spent her last days” and the example. An example is to remain on your own. Because perhaps it was because of women who did not have their long - range plans but simply gave up their lives, all their impulses to have Ukraine, without thinking that I would be there, who I would be prime minister, speaker, or what kind of coalition, which dividends. We have an example today of how to remain on our own, because I am convinced that the more people in Ukraine who can remain on their own, the more hope that this people will remain on their own and that they will be victorious.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u183	Please, Mikola Danilin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. I would like to take a moment to consider such an important point. Regrettably, we have moved in midsummer and, in a literal sense, two months later, a very serious issue will be raised on the agenda to prepare for the winter. Today, in this room, you and I have not yet completed the formation of a Government that must directly organize this process. And from what is happening in the city of Kiev, and I think that in many regions we have to realize that the problem of another Alcevska may arise again in connection with the rise in gas prices, oil products, electricity prices. Today, we do not see one of the factions in this room, the factions of the representatives of BUIT, who are very energetic in defending many political issues. I would like to ask our colleagues to return to work for the work that Parliament needs to do to form a government. Many colleagues here told me that someone's ambitions sometimes overwhelm me. I want to say that outside this room, each of us represents his own constituents, the people he's talking to, who's bringing thoughts to him. The incapacity of today's Cabinet of Ministers, which has long been in suspended condition, has led to such paradoxical things when, to date, in the Darnit region, international organizations have provided humanitarian assistance to one of the Orthodox religious organizations, which has been unable to receive this humanitarian assistance for two months in a row. Why? Because the Committee at the Cabinet of Ministers for the Allocation of this Humanitarian Aid is practically blocking the work, and people today cannot provide people in need, including in the city of Kiev, with the help of those who will soon enter the winter. I call upon all of us to work together to ensure that next week, with you, we must complete the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers and ensure that all structures in our State are fully earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-21-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who wanted to share in the presentations on various issues did so. In summary, I would like to draw attention to what our colleague Taras Cnerovil was talking about in his speech about the dissolution of parliament. I urge those who want to do so to read articles 90 and 115 of the Constitution. I'm for them, maybe they're lined up to do it, with your permission I'll remind you. Article 90 says that the President of Ukraine has the right to suspend the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a timely manner unless, in the second part, within 60 days of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been formed. 115th article of the Constitution states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in charge of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have the right to declare their resignation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Prime Minister's resignation was accepted by the Supreme Council, the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a resolution of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers as a result of the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers. In these cases, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in the process of forming a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers within the terms and order laid down in this Constitution. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was appointed before the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine or whose resignation was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, continues to exercise its authority before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins. These articles clearly and unequivocally state that no one in the Cabinet of Ministers resigned, the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. Please tell me, did we take a document with you? Not accepted, according to the Constitution, the head of government stated that they were in charge. In addition to the establishment of powers, the Constitution provides for two other cases of resignation. The first time the Prime Minister of Ukraine claims resignation and his resignation is automatically the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers if the Supreme Council decides. And the second resignation is provided for in Article 87 of the Basic Law, when the Supreme Council adopts resolutions of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of a resolution of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers means the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers. So, respectable lawyers from the Bank, don't be lazy about reading the basic law. I understand you're ignoring him because you want to take him down by means of the Constitutional Court, but he's acting and he needs to be guided. 60 days won't go by on the 25th or 27th or 30th of July, because the Cabinet of Ministers is not retired and the Supreme Council will work. And I hope that it will work for the entire period of cadence, that is, all five years, and we'll help with that. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I would like to remind you that according to accepted changes to the work schedule, the next session will be held with you on Monday. The evening session will begin at 4 p.m. I'll see you later.
