ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs, representatives of the press, guests of the Supreme Council, radio and television! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Take your seats. Put the cards in place. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:51]] Individual cards of 430 deputies have been recorded. The morning session is open. Let's welcome the noun of our son, Artem Mikolaiovich. Let's give it a round of applause. [[Applause]] At his age, he has not yet seen the age of a name, but we still wish that he was in such a mood that he would remain optimistic for many years. And I have one, I'd say, announcement, because there's not much time and there's no other way to react. Actually, it's everybody's business, but I'd like to mention that on November 7th, it's been 70 years since the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, a writer, a playwright, a movie actor named Mikoli. New. Unfortunately, he is no longer with us, but it would be good if the scholars in schools, universities, or whatever mentioned him were reading his things. I think it would be useful for us to still join the high art, the beautiful, bright representative of what he was among us. In accordance with the Rules, I am obliged to announce the requests made by the deputies. And that's why I'm going to do this. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Andrew Pinchuck to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, for the verification of violations of the requirements of public procurement by the tender committee of the Ministry of Health. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, on the inclusion of the city council of the city of Déržinska Donetské region in the national development programme and the reconstruction of central water supply and water supply systems in 2007. The Polish Government to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Director of the State Institute and the right of the name of the National Academy of Sciences to provide the information necessary for the work of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation on the Ukrainian energy market. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Education and Science for the financing of work from the disaster situation of the Sports Hall of School No. 6 of the city of Dryzkowka Donecka. ICCA's shareholding to the Attorney-General for illegal construction, which is carried out by the closed Agrobud stock company in Ternopil and the inaction of law enforcement authorities. MICILI TOMENKA to the Attorney General on the failure to secure a state monopoly on lottery performances, particularly sports, which resulted in a substantial loss of revenue to the State budget. By the way, it's a matter of principle that needs to be dealt with at the legislative level. Alexander WALKOVA to the Attorney General in connection with the unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary appeal for the annulment of the illegal decisions of the Shevchenkov District Council of Kiev regarding the privatization of basement buildings of House 8 on Vorovsky Street in Kiev. Ms. Mishtenka to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the failure to resolve the issue of the allocation of funds for the heating of the educational complex “General School of Education I-III Grades – Children's Garden” in the village of Lachashi Barishiv district of Kyiv region. After that, we send questions to the MPs at the addresses given. And we hope that responding to MPs' requests will meet the requirements of the law on the status of deputies and the corresponding ones. and on the basis of the respective functions of the civil servants. Questions are being considered for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making of the draft Ordinance on Hearing Reports of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine Griesenka A.S., Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Tarasyuk B.I., Minister of Internal Affairs Lucenka U.V. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u2	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! With the right of legislative initiative, on behalf of the three people's deputies, I am introducing a draft decree for Parliament's consideration that the reports of Minister for Foreign Affairs Boris Tarasyuk, Minister of the Interior Yuri Lucenka and Minister of Defence Anatolia Grizenka should be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u3	One second. I gave you time a little earlier. We've got to get him in the daytime. So I would like to vote on the question of including it in the order of day. I'll put it to a vote. From the procedure? Let's do it in three minutes or five minutes. Please sign in. Bummer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u4	The word is given to Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council a question. We understand that these ministers, whose names you called, are members of the government, of your government, which formed an anti-crisis coalition. And I don't understand why we should be doing a show here when you have all the important influences. You have a government. You can listen to the ministers during the government meeting. And when you think you need to make decisions, including in this room. And that's why I have a question for you. Why do you want us to participate in your show? Have a government meeting, and please inform the public about the decisions you make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u7	If you don't mind. In the context of the parliamentary-presidential Republic, this is a perfectly normal practice for the accountability of members of the Government of Parliament. That is why we are issuing this draft regulation, determining the sessional room, adopting or not adopting the ministerial report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u8	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u9	I ask you to pass the word to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u10	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u11	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this initiative, coming out of the following. First of all, you and I are witnesses to the need to consolidate and ensure joint action within the government in order to resolve specific issues. These specific questions are very painful. It means tariffs, prices, preparation for winter, the problem of an agro-industrial complex, and much more. Unfortunately, at the initiative of some ministers, we have a certain disunity in the organization of the Cabinet of Ministers. So we, the Communists and we suggested, let's listen to each of these ministers do the deal we signed, the members of the anti-crisis coalition. Because if the ministers who are part of the government, for which we, the anti-crisis coalition, are responsible, act as they will, and not as we should be with you today to secure our obligations to the electorate, they should not be in the government. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u12	St. St. John's.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u13	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleague, I have not been in Parliament for a year, but I have never seen such a thing come forward last night, and today I have listened. I'm sorry, there's actually an internal use document called the Rules. And it says that at the request of the deputy faction, the committee may be heard by a minister, there is no mention of a national MP. This is position one. The second position says that for a preliminary consideration of the issue, there are committees that prepare for consideration and explain why the proposal is. We ignore the Rules, Alexander Alexandrovich. Now I understand why the Constitution does not contain the Act on Rules, which would be mandatory, but simply written, the Rules, which can be amended at any time. Surely, then, when you were working on the Constitutional Commission, you knew that you would be in such a coalition and would be able to spit on the Rules. So I urge you to follow the Rules. Because when we break the law here in the big room, we break the law for everyone in Ukraine, and as a result, corruption, disorder, low standard of living, citizens suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u14	So I understand, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, that you are addressing me. I ask you to hold your emotions, because this question is raised by the Conciliation Council, if it is disturbed there, I said: “Prepare the draft decision and then we will consider.” If the session room is defined and we're considering the question, not essentially, but the inclusion of the hearing in two weeks. Well, calm down, please look at the documents that are in front of you right now. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Alexanderovich, speaking to you on a regular basis, they have every reason. We also brought it into the agenda yesterday, and we barely considered it, but at the initiative of the authors, they were still off-limits, bills that had not been processed on the committee. And I'm also addressing you, Alexander Alexanderovich, no political relevance can be a basis for ignoring the rules of law. Let's cancel it at all and then do whatever you want. Did this draft decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of Savings and Ukri Eksimbank in breach of the regulations last night vote in violation of the same terms as on October 6. Amendments to Article 7 “For banks and banking activities have been adopted”, the President did not sign it, the law did not take effect and we are voting on a completely different decision in violation of the adopted law. You give if you give
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u16	I'm talking to Oleg Lacha, because he's asking me for a short answer. You simply do not vote for inclusion and thus express your will. All of it. Come on, I just made an explanation, and you don't want to listen, you're just listening to yourself. Let's listen to each other. Please, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u17	Alexander Alexandrovich, Alexeiev just told me to pass the word. I'd like to take another look at my respectable comrades. It is a matter of putting the issue on the agenda. In accordance with the rule, we determine that this will be considered in the next plenary week. These ministers have the opportunity to prepare, prepare written, oral information for analysis and report from the Supreme Council's rostrum. After we have analysed this report, we are entitled to ask whether they hold these posts further, or whether we are mistrusting them and, of course, to the same procedure as provided for in the Rules and the Constitution, we are removing them from positions. My position. Today, it is very difficult to make demands to the Minister of Defence because the corruption that struck the Ministry of Defence today threatens national security. Selling illegal weapons to hot spots, that's what's breaking up. The entourage in Luhansk was sold in the center of the city. What else can we talk about?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u18	In other words, the point of the matter is discussed instead of procedural points. I think you'll be able to make that statement. But for now, it can be done if we include it in the order of the day. That is why I am putting to the vote the issue of inclusion in the agenda of this issue. [[10:16:52]] For 232 Decision taken. He'll report to Kilinkarov, please. About the turn-on? Decisions have been made to include in the order of the day. Please report to the factions, the deputies should see who is voting. Region Party – 177, Block Timoshenko – 3, Our Ukraine – 2, Socialists – 27, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 3. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u19	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters. Under the law of the legislative initiative, a draft Decree on the need to hear the reports of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Boris Tarasyuk, Minister of the Interior of Jury Lucenka and Minister of Defence of Anatoly Griesenka is being introduced on behalf of the three people's deputies. The professional political activities of the above-mentioned ministers have led to a mixed assessment in society, sparked a number of journalistic investigations and has been the subject of increased attention by the people's deputies. I would like to emphasize in particular. All representatives of the anti-crisis coalition highly respect all members of the Cabinet of Ministers, especially those who have always stressed their exceptionalness and high political patronage. However, it must be noted that high representation is not a political indulgence. The Ministry of Defence has issues related to illegal business practices, land secession, sanatorium complexes in the Crimea. The public of Lugansk, Sevastopol, Balak5lava, Feodosia, Yalta are concerned about the rate and extent to which illegal separations of military property are taking place. Household combinations, sanatoriums, repair plants, military factories move into private hands through fictitious bankruptcy, property write-offs and the like. The activities of the Minister of the Interior have been the subject of a series of press investigations into corruption in internal affairs. An investigative parliamentary commission has been established in Parliament with the support of the Communist Party, the Party of the Regions and the opposition BUIT. The authority of the internal affairs authorities is a person of authority and its closest relations with a person. The systemic phenomena of corruption, abuse, bribery and, finally, veneration and disrespect in a small Ukrainian are unfortunately flourishing in our law enforcement agencies. Foreign Minister Tarasyuk seems to be building a line of foreign-policy relations between Ukraine and the general socio-economic reality in general. It is particularly interesting to note that Mr. Tarasyuk is the leader of the opposition party of the People's Movement of Ukraine. At the expense of such an opposition minister, NATO's jealous pedalling in and against the views of the Ukrainian people and, finally, the targeted policy on the exacerbation and deterioration of relations is our strategic partner, the Russian Federation. Political conflicts, economic failures caused by an active political position, the specific sense of patriotism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are difficult to list in this brief statement. In the light of the foregoing, I call on the Supreme Council to take into account all the above circumstances and to support the decree on the need for a three-ministerial report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u20	The question is to the reporter? Sign up. Five minutes. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u22	Mikhailo Pojinov, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I have a question: why are we selectively choosing ministers, who are probably politically not attracted to your anti-crisis coalition, and I'm going to repeat that word, as if Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich didn't like it, and he's constantly trying to comment on it, because that's exactly what you're doing, and you're forcing us to do these things? Why don't we talk today about why in September-month inflation made up 2.5 percent, which is almost equal to inflation in eight months, and we don't listen here to the finance minister or the economy minister, but rather to the political question? It seems to me that this is being done on purpose, and if this question, Alexandre Alexandrovich, is to be put up and voted, this is the first step of your actual actions on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine, because Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u23	Thank you, thank you for asking. I want to fill you with the fact that these three ministers are long-lived: they were in the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, they were in the Government of Ehanurov, and they were in the Government to date. That's why in such a long period of government, I think they have more than just to report to the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u24	Landik, please. Mikhail, you're in no hurry with the President's impeachment, please. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u25	I had five seconds stolen. I would like to ask about the speaker of Kilinkarov's statement by the Minister of the Interior yesterday at the “Inter” in “Details”, I think, a week or so. But it was claimed by him that he was an unaccountable Supreme Council. He said, "I'm not coming, who are they here?" But it was Lucenko who adopted the changes to the Constitution when he called here in the past. Doesn't he read who chooses? We know who represents us. But whoever appoints him, who votes for him, and who he is accountable to, we know. If he has bad lawyers, let him read his own vote. And I'm gonna say that I called you seven times yesterday. I called eight times yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have not heard this statement from Mr. Lucenk, but I would like to repeat myself. No high political patronage exempts him from his direct duties. He must come and speak and report to the people's deputies. He is a member, after all, of the Government and a member of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u27	Packet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u28	The honourable reporter, in my opinion, is very correct that you have introduced this bill so that the opposition does not criticize itself, because without considering this issue, we create preconditions for criticizing their ministers. I feel that it is necessary to consider this immediately in order to avoid any suspicion of these people’s inactivity. Why do we glamour these people in Ukraine who deserve their attention? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u29	Thank you. I'm stressing again. There's no point in saying that today. To take note of their report or to express their mistrust. It is now a matter of considering the work of these ministries, and I do not see any problems at all. They may come, speak, and the deputies will support their position with two hands. That's it. It'll all depend on the will of the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u30	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u31	Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Your Honor, I have a question for you. The ministers you propose to listen to are part of the government created by the coalition. What prevents the government from hearing ministers at its meeting if there are shortcomings in their work? What prevents coalitions from raising awareness and asking questions about their responsibility if they do not cooperate? For you to involve this Supreme Council? Why do you involve the country? You're responsible for them. You voted in their behalf, and you are responsible for them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u32	Thank you. I'd like to pay attention. We are going to meet with the opposition and allow you to participate in the discussion of these issues. Of course, you could have gone your way. But if we were to go that way, you would accuse us that we, the Anti-Crist Coalition, had prosecuted these ministers. That is why we will discuss this matter with you, and the Supreme Council Hall will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u33	Have a seat, please. I'm Oleg Lazka, I just want to protect the Constitution. The minister can't report to the coalition, so their internal affairs, and before the Supreme Council -- this is recorded -- can be reported. And in the government, please, I don't know, it's their parish. The word has the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of China, Anatoly Kirilovich, if you wish. He's not in the hall right now, he's out. I'm asking who would like to make a statement on this, please sign in. It's literally five minutes. It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I think the question that we are being asked to discuss right now is worth it. We, within the framework of the law, have the right, within the framework of the existing Constitution, to hear the report of the distinguished ministers. And no one here, I think, is making any plans to make a political execution. Our task is to deal with people who today have had a very difficult situation, both political and social. There are many words spoken from various political camps. We will listen to them, we will thank them for their good work if we find this opportunity, and people will continue to work beautifully. I consider it necessary to discuss, invite, and draw conclusions here on the dome of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u35	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, of course, are key ministers, and we know how different their viewpoint is. For example, we have heard here from the Premier’s mouth that there is a misunderstanding between, say, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, differing views on our foreign policy. We hear a lot of attention today to the army's defence minister from the citizens. I'm not talking about Minister Lucenka, who really told me yesterday that the Supreme Council didn't order me, so they voted illegally to create a commission, to suspend her activity. Anyway, thank me, because it was six months away, I took two months. So two months anyway, and it won't interfere with the work of the commission. So there's nothing to be ashamed of when the MPs, the whole Ukrainian people, want to hear how these key ministers work. That's why I support this decision, I think. We have to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u37	Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u38	Boki, the Socialist faction. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the vice-deputy Lachka for his consistent love for the ministers of the interior and convey the floor to the deputy with a glass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u39	Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u40	A fast, socialist faction. Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. I want to say that we should not artificially divide our Parliament into parts, even if there is opposition, there are pervasive factions. We must follow the Constitution equally and listen if this is what all Parliament needs reports from these ministers to do. All I have to say about Lucenka is whether it is appropriate to include him today in the agenda and in this action if we have only made a decision the other day. What did the commission of inquiry do? Let's talk about Lucenko to the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, and then we can listen to him, too, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u41	Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u42	Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Zaporozhye I am addressing representatives of the so-called faction, the so-called block of our Ukraine. Well, first of all, when you talk. What we're doing here in political affairs, I want to tell you. Aren't economics all foreign policy actions that directly affect the economy? Didn't you? What's going on at the Ministry of Defense is not damaging to Ukraine's economy? So any suspicion that there's a political debate here, and economic issues need to be addressed. I don't think it's worth it. And as to what is proposed in the Cabinet of Ministers, not on the Supreme Council, I apologize, but the responsibility of ministers to the Supreme Council. Hence, it is up to the Supreme Council to listen to reports about its activities. Those to whom they answer listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u43	Potrnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u44	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u45	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing the anti-crisis coalition. As for the personnel issues and directly the ministers you're talking about, you should have thought before voting. And this is a question that needs to be asked once. You're in two parts. First, there is the minister of defense and the minister of foreign affairs, who is represented by Peter Mikolaiovich and is his quota. And I think it would be right for you to discuss this issue with the President before discussing it with the Supreme Council. And it's your relationship with the President that you don't need to make, sorry, from this show. Find a relationship with the government, in other institutions that you now control. As for Lucenko, who was chosen by the quota “Our Ukraine”, well, yesterday he was defending Yushchenko, we saw him, protected by Yanukovic, now being protected by socialists at the head of the Frost. This man doesn't care who he serves, because we didn't have a more lying and immoral minister in Kuchma's time. But it's your minister! Don't touch it! This is your minister, and you have full responsibility for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u47	Thank you all for expressing your thoughts. Here's the thing: we've done more than once, and we've invited officials from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and we've already made a call here today -- the ministers, the Attorney-General, and so on. So it's just a procedural question. And you can essentially view it as the 15th number in the draft decision. So I would like us not to be overly politicized, although I understand that everyone will be expressing their opinions, that is the case. I'm voting on the bill of hearing the reports of Secretary of Defense Gristenk, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Tarasyuk and Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka. Please. [[10:33:03]] For 215 The decision did not pass. It was suggested to vote the same without Minister Lucenk, since a special investigator was created and so forth. I'm voting on this proposal, please. Take it easy. I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:33:31]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. For reasons of vote? Please, Simonenko, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u48	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that the reasons for the exclusion of Minister Lucenk from the list of ministers to be heard by the Supreme Council are not justified. The fact is that the commission they created yesterday will work on a case-by-case basis. We are talking about information from the Minister of the Interior regarding the fulfilment of the conditions of the anti-crisis coalition that we have taken before society. From the point of view of order in society, in the fight against organized crime, corruption, respect for the rights and freedoms of our citizens, protection of their freedoms and rights. In this part, we have set the task of informing the Ministers of how they intend to implement or refuse to implement. The commission was set up yesterday to investigate specific egregious facts that provided the public with information, in particular the 2000 newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u49	Thank you. A draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN General Assembly Resolution on the Republic of Cuba is under consideration. Report by Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we accept the Supreme Council's application. The reason for this is that on November 8th, the UN General Assembly will consider a resolution on the need to end the economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba. By the way, 186 countries voted in favour of the economic blockade last year. In the same way, they expressed their attitude that economic blockade is a kind of anachronism in international relations. It's a very specific detail. Of 186 countries, virtually all European Union countries voted in favour of this form of pressure against the entire nation. Since most of the political powers in this room have repeatedly claimed their favor with the European elections of Ukraine, it seems that a positive vote in favour of such a statement by the Supreme Council would be another confirmation of our independent European policy. On the other hand, for thousands of our fellow citizens, Cuba is not just a country thousands of miles from Ukraine. This, first of all, is the state that adopted the state aid programme for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster after the Chernobyl disaster. Over 15 years, more than 20,000 of our children received high-quality medical care and were generally involved in complex and complex surgical operations that could not be performed in Ukraine, and often because of financial problems in other countries. During this time, Ukrainian experts estimate that Cuba has spent more than 350 million dollars in budgeting to help small Ukrainians. I think that our solidarity vote on this statement could be an expression of, in a small part, our respect and gratitude for the Cuban people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u51	Is there a question for Jaroslav Petrovich? None. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u53	Are there speakers? A very short statement, absolutely correct, diplomatically enduring. I'd like to put it to a vote if there's no objection. Please have a draft ruling before your eyes, please vote. [[10:38:04]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 32, “Our Ukraine” – 46, SPI – 31, Communist – 20, non-fractional – 4. Well, please, we don't have time, we don't have time to look. You voted for it, didn't you? Then it is clear that you voted correctly. Well, Kuzmenko's asking for motive. Please, the MP is right. In principle, I don't want to write for three minutes. Please. And Widow, well, give me two minutes of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u54	Thank you. Sergey Kuzmanko, Faction of the SPE, Zaporozhye. I'd like to notice the following. Unfortunately, in the last session of the General Assembly, the Ukrainian representative did not vote in favour of lifting the blockade. I would like this statement to be an instruction or a task to our representatives at the General Assembly in order to vote together with most of the delegation in favour of lifting the blockade.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u55	I see. Gennady Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u56	Dear Alexander Alexander, I voted in favour of this resolution, and I am also grateful to Cuba, and to the leaders, and to the people of Cuba for the help they are giving to our children. I myself have been in Cuba many times and have been familiar with the details of how our children are being treated there. But we should not have such a selective approach to our activities. Cuba - yes, Cuba - you are! But next to us is Georgia. Did the Ukrainian Parliament say anything to support Georgia? Has the Ukrainian Parliament opposed practically the imposition of sanctions against Georgia, against its people? Is this in line with international law? I mean, I urge us to be more balanced about all the problems facing world society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u57	Consider these considerations. We voted yesterday to include in the order of the day and to consider the reduced procedure of a series of laws. They're right in front of your eyes. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act is therefore under consideration. And the reporter here is Deputy Head of the Presidential Secretariat, Yacenouk Arseny Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u58	Reverend Alexander Aleksandrovitch, distinguished national deputies. Let me report on the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. The current insurance market is open to foreign capital and since 2000, in fact, there are no restrictions on foreign insurance companies to purchase Ukrainian insurance companies. As part of Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization, Ukraine committed itself to opening up brokerage to appropriate foreign insurance companies. The first requirement was that such activity should be opened immediately from the moment of Ukraine’s entry into WTO. However, the negotiators have refused to accept this offer and a bill is being proposed for your consideration, whereby the discovery of middle-sized brokering activities for insurance companies will take place five years after Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. The restrictions are not exclusively distributed to so - called large insurance companies. What is involved in the great insurance policy? For example. After the September 11th terrorist attacks, a large airline insurance company accounts for about $750 million. According to the valid classification of Ukrainian insurance companies, which are actually operating around 80, the maximum risk that a Ukrainian insurance company can take is a million dollars. Thus, we allow insurance only those risks that the Ukrainians cannot carry out today. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u59	Have a seat, please. Peter Poshenko of the Banking Committee. Arjevitin, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u60	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting reviewed this issue repeatedly and on October 31st made a decision. The draft Act was said to amend the Insurance Act, allowing non-residents to carry out insurance activities with high risks in maritime transport, air transport, cargo transport, etc. The norm is predicted from the moment you enter the SATs. It is estimated that five years after Ukraine’s entry into WTO, the standard is being reversed. Clearly, the bill is the result of negotiations with the WTO, but members of the Banking Committee, in support of the idea of market liberalisation, provide some warnings on second reading. Among them, for the time being, we see that there is a lack of any requirement in the bill for non-resident insurers, taking into account that they are taking a high risk and of course we need to work through an authorized regulator to regulate similar requirements for such non-resident insurers. We have to do everything we can to prevent unscrupulous insurers from entering our market. So far, it seems rather questionable to allow mediocre activity with mandatory insurance contracts. There was also a lively discussion on the subject of the absence of a transition period in our committee. I would like to remind you that the law on insurance for the admission of foreign branches to our market already has a standard in five years. And in our view, this rule needs to be extended to the operation of both this law and to clearly determine both the capital and the profitability of similar companies. In view of the above, and I understand the importance of Ukraine’s commitment to the WTO, the Committee recommends a project to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u61	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u62	take the basis and the same proposal is in the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Council. For the second reading, the committee plans to set up a working group, invite government representatives, the insurance business, and protect the domestic market.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u63	Thank you, sit down, please. In the short run, write two in, two in, and two in the opposite. Who wants to support or not support this document, please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich and Kilinkarov
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Please pass the word to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u65	Sergey Teryohin of the rostrum will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u66	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. In fact, the Committee on Finance considered this issue, and it was very keen to consider it. And I can tell you that this bill is another example of completely unprepared preparation. This is one of the four bills passed by the President of Ukraine, who can't stand any criticism. This bill suggests, let's say, this is the position: the circle will knock on your door tomorrow, so let's say an African African who will present himself as a broker of a Somali insurance company, and he'll say, please pay me a premium of some kind, and then you'll look for that non-resident broker and that non-resident company for the rest of your life. By the way, this bill does not completely establish the rights of the controlling authority, the parental authority and the next supervision, to control such non-residents. The second question. Big insurance is big risk insurance. This is where the reporter told us that, he said, we had the liquidity of insurance companies. But there's a rule of prevention of the great risks of non-residents when there's a general risk to Ukrainian companies. I can tell you that this bill doesn't know how to do it. We tried to write out any other requirements, there was licensing, there was some sort of imputable capital -- nothing works, like with banks. So, unfortunately, in order for us not to be accused politically, we have to accept it in the first reading, as they say, with disgust. But frankly, on the second reading, this bill will be radically amended. And the last. All these positions, both in banks and in the village that we're about to speak, and in the insurance companies, were handed over by the government of the past when the protocol was signed by the United States of America. Other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u67	Let's take this up for an aggrieve. Now Kilinkarov will be against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u68	Please hand over to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u69	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, Simonenko. I propose that, in considering the draft STO laws, we put the issue on a different level -- and what are we doing today to protect our domestic producer? Well, let's say they're talking about getting the scrap metal out. And I want to hear it then, and this country where we're going to take out the scrap metal gave us a quota for delivery of the scrap metal. But if, as it is said, we are talking about joint trade and economic cooperation, let us work together in a mutually beneficial manner. But I'm going to touch that law. I'm here to protect the insurance companies of Ukraine. What is the threat to this law that is required for us to adopt into the WTO? What's the threat? First of all, I believe that this is an additional pressure mechanism for a domestic producer to export the goods to. It will be forbidden to honor the arrival of our own producers. This money will not go to the budget of the State of Ukraine, but will go to the budget of other States. In addition, the threat that these non-residents, as mentioned by the previous speaker, are the same as the various financial instruments. Of course, these are criminal acts for which we will still be counted. But I'm worried about something else. Mr. Arsenyuk, who reported, did not give any figures as to what amounts would be insured. It does not even, so to speak, provide us with objectively detailed information today as members of the people about the consequences that we will have. And I get the impression that those who report these draft laws from the point of view of adoption are sitting in the President's Administration and have already forgotten to look in the window to see their native Ukraine. Respected domestic producers, the Communist faction invites you to cooperate and calls on everyone to reflect today: the adoption of these laws will put the 2007 budget at risk, since 2007 budget estimates do not include income reductions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u71	No one else was enrolled in the performance and apparently. Jaroslav Suhi, for reasons, please. In fact, you have the right to speak as a representative of the faction. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear colleagues, I asked for a minute because I was thinking when Sergey Terrohin spoke that he would give some concrete or understandable arguments at least for the radio audience, which is actually suggested. But let's deal with these scarecrows somehow. When we were introduced here by Soviet laws, which were really aimed at breaking something up, we were protesting. You can see that the amended Soviet laws that are being introduced to the session hall today: the lifting of restrictions on mediation in Ukraine for the benefit of non-resident insurance companies is being implemented five years after Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. What is the threat here, and what is the danger here? So I urge the session room to vote in favour of this bill. And I'm asking the profile committee very much: no need to be afraid that before the second reading, this is going to be another bill. If it's another bill, it's going to be vetoed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u73	From the faction “Our Ukraine, ” Leapina asks for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u74	Xeni Lapina, “Our Ukraine”. I'd like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to the fact that this bill is one of the best drafts actually, because it takes down a lobbying moment like the restriction on competition in the insurance market. And if some of us were intimidated by the presence of powerful, respected insurance companies and the start of equipment, it's actually not the case, because equipment is being done today when powerful, important foreign companies fighting for their reputation are not in the Ukraine market. I understand the insurance business, they protect their interests, they want to limit competition to make better profits. But you and I are protecting the interests of the state. The State's interest is to open up competition in our insurance market. As to whether the controller loses his Ukrainian ability, I'm sure we can read for a second reading if there's any warning that we can work out exactly the rights of our Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u75	Thank you, Xenia. We're defending human rights and states first of all, including, so we're going to finish the discussion, and I'm stressing that both the committee and the rapporteurs are offering to take the basis, in terms of preparing for the second reading, for an editorial that would take away the risks that Sergey Teryochyn and the Communists were talking about here. So I'm voting on this project to take it as the basis for the first reading. [[10:54:18]] For 383 Decision taken. The factions, please. 180 – “Regions”, 104 – “Blok Timoshenko”, 68 – “Our Ukraine”, 27 – socialists, 0 – communists, non-fractional – 4. The draft Act is being reviewed by the same procedure by the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. As reported by Arsentius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u76	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable National Deputies. For your consideration, the Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is proposed. The main objective of the Act is to protect intellectual property rights. The point is that the European Union protects the results of microchemical, microbiological, clinical trials for any medicinal product for 6 years. In other words, competitors cannot obtain the results of appropriate chemical formulas and the results of appropriate research within six years of the proper registration of the drug. At present, there is no such norm in Ukrainian legislation. This means that so-called generic drugs, which are similar to their chemical formulas, but have not undergone appropriate clinical studies, appear in Ukrainian pharmacology and reach the relevant consumer. This procedure clearly worsens both the health of the population and, in fact, the state of intellectual property protection. The bill proposes to be appropriate for a protected term for the information in question. At the same time, such information is publicly available to the Ministry of Health, which registers appropriate medical devices. That is, all the necessary documents required for the appropriate medical device to be tested and allowed to be sold in Ukraine have an appropriate specialized body, which is the Ministry of Health. Thus, all the interests of Ukrainian citizens in obtaining safe and effective drugs have been preserved. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u77	Thank you. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry from the Committee of Thought will speak. Please. Head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u78	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee on Health considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Medical Act, introduced by the President of Ukraine, to fulfil Ukraine's obligation to join WTO. The bill proposed by the President of Ukraine is intended to protect commercial information, treatment as an intellectual property facility at the time of registration. It should be pointed out that treatments as specific products that have an impact on human health and are specific in their design, manufacture and sale are regulated by health legislation, and in particular by the Law on Medical Devices. In addition, as any product, medical devices have their names and business names that may become part of intellectual property when registered as a trademark. These rights are protected by Ukrainian law. And according to these laws, the owner of this security document, the patent for the invention of a useful model, industrial samples, signs for goods and services are entitled to use them. The Committee generally supports the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine aimed at resolving intellectual property issues for treatment during their registration, respectively, the requirement of international law. At the same time, it is felt that some of its provisions need drafting and clarification. In our view, it is useful in the bill to specify exactly what information in the registration documents should be protected from disclosure and unfair commercial use. In addition, the provisions of the bill should specify which treatments should be covered by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u79	Thank you. The offer is understood. On the basis of a second reading, we can use it as a basis. Anyone who wishes to comment on the summary procedure, two in favour, two in favour, and two in favour, vote with the appropriate buttons. Please. Thank you, Aunt Petrovna. Sas “for”, Cibenko “against”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u80	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Please pass the word to Sergei Vladimirovich Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u81	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. I will allow myself to disagree with Mr. Yatsenuk that the main purpose of this law is to protect intellectual property. Perhaps the main thing is to protect the rights of patients, the rights of Ukrainian citizens, who should use medical devices of good quality, unforgivable, not fake, not deserts like this, unfortunately, in Ukraine they are doing, and indeed they are taking medicines that will help patients. It is this law that aims to make our standards of Ukrainian life a European international reality. So it seems to me that there should be no objection to the adoption of this law, but it needs to be supplemented by some adjustments to the second reading. The head of the committee called them individual, and I'd like to say that for the second reading, it's obvious that we need to think about the term of protecting such commercial information that we, which the state is planning to lead. This term has been proposed for five years, in the European community for six years, in a similar law regarding the protection of intellectual property in the field of the production of herbicides and pesticides for 10 years. I think plant protection is important, but protection of human health is more important, so I would suggest that we take the basis, but until the second reading, we increase the term when we cannot divulge this mystery from 5 years to 7 or 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u83	Thank you. And maybe you can make this proposal right now, even though we have a transcript and it's going to go to the project, but if you do, you can prepare it for the second reading. Okay. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u84	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich, the Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear fellows, you know, if I were a believing man, I would have the full right to say your strange works, Lord. Yesterday our "ura-patriots" made a decision by opening up foreign lawyers to the markets of Ukraine, while thousands of our people were sent to Europe, wearing night pots for Europeans. This is seen as a major achievement. Then a decision was made on certain elements of the destruction of Ukraine’s banking system. The weight of the hurrah. Today, the language has gone on. It's about people who don't know today that a lot of drugs today, well at best, don't hurt people, but at best. And yet, instead of making decisions today that would increase the responsibility that would save Ukrainian citizens from these things, we're starting to play around European values, around Europe, and crawl in front of it. I want to say that the Communist faction will not vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u85	I see. I think the position was understood by everyone who wanted to participate in this discussion. This is about the need for a second reading to finalize the document in order to find out the positions that Sergey Shevchuk and those who spoke to other deputies. And now I'm voting on the basis of this paper in the first reading. Please. [[11:04:05]] For 381 Decision taken. I'll explain again. Rules do not allow interruptions, interruptions. And when I have a conversation and I put it to a vote, please don't scream at this point. And there's always a motive after the vote. Please. Lilia Stepanovna, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u86	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! If I'm going to go by the book, two for, two for, two for, I don't understand why I'm one for, one for, one for. Although, of course, I was writing down from “Our Ukraine”. I don't know how our car works.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u87	There was nothing on the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u88	Something's wrong with the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u89	Well, you can check it out, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u90	It doesn't matter, how is it one for, one for? And since you gave me the opportunity to comment on the faction after the vote, I would like to say that there is no doubt that the bill given, and it should be supported in the first reading, as the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, which I am part of, is intended to regulate the use of drugs that are imported in Ukraine. And certainly, with the amendments proposed to the committee's second reading, this law will serve exclusively to optimize and yield information about those drugs, because Ukraine, like every country in the world, is certainly not producing all its products sufficiently. I'd like to ask that the car doesn't fail anymore: both the one who votes and the car in our Parliamentary Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u91	So I'm talking to those who have heard your information. After the vote, I have no right to interrupt it, first. It's different. You have a claim to a car, show it to her. But I'm not here for anything. I don't own a car in this case. For those who are taking the initiative, please add a little bit of reaction to your comments in due time. I'm talking to your neighbor. The decision is made on this point. There is a draft Act amending the Act on Added Cost Tax on Taxation of Agricultural Enterprises. The word is Jacinjak Arseny Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u92	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The President of Ukraine introduced a bill proposing that the tax regime for agri-industrial enterprises should be distributed in 2007. In view of the fact that a similar bill is approved by the Supreme Council and is signed by the President of Ukraine, we ask that the bill be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u93	No objections? That's why I'm voting to remove this bill from the table, considering that the President's signature has the same content. [[11:07:31]] For 388 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity is under consideration. The word is given by the reporter Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u94	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to remind you that the Foreign Economics Act came into existence for the first time in 1992 and the standards of this law are substantially outdated. Most of the rules of this law are not used at all today in a valid procedure of external economic activity. This law removes standards that do not meet the requirements of GAT SOT. It's about what's called anti-dumping licenses, anti-discrimination licenses, and similar questions about discriminatory and dumping quotas. The law provides for two things. First. The procedure is simplified and the licensing procedure is normalized. And so the law will have two licensing procedures: the first procedure is an automatic license, the second procedure is a non-automatic license. An automatic licence will mean that the entity’s actual claim to be an entrepreneur who submits the relevant set of documents will be granted an appropriate licence, which cannot be a restriction on external economic activity. A non-automatic licence is a license that is introduced only in cases that are clearly provided for by law, which is actually a quota license and is prohibited for carrying out external economic operations. Such a non-automatic licence is introduced in the event of a substantial deterioration in the balance of payments, with the substantial imbalance in export and import commodity transactions, with threats to food security and, in other cases, provided for by the relevant law. Thus, the law clearly regulates the issue of licensing, the responsibility of executive authorities for issuing licences or other licences, and brings into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation the Act on External Economic Activity. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u95	The word has the head of the Platinum Committee, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on 31 October reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity, registration number 2400, introduced by the President of Ukraine on 20 June. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian law with a view to ensuring, first and foremost, that national legislation is more consistent with the requirements of the GAT SOT system. The need to adopt this law is linked to the need to implement national legislation in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization and to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations to join the WTO. The draft law provides for exemptions from the Ukrainian Foreign Economics Act to define terms that do not comply with the requirements of WTO contracts: these are anti-dumping quotas, compensatory quotas, anti-dumping licences and compensatory licences. The draft law is also proposed in accordance with the article of the First General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Amendments to the Act on the establishment of the most favourable regime and the national regime for imported goods originating in WTO member States. The new edition of articles 16 and 17 that are consistent with the provisions on import licensing procedures, as well as the new edition of article 29, which is consistent with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in particular its Article 24. The comments of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority are not categorical and allow the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The committee did so and recommended that the first reading be based. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u97	Please write down who wants to say "yes" or "against". It's a recording. Didn't anyone miss the system? Kirilenko is recorded, Leapina and Ponomarenko. Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, thank you for the opportunity. And I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy, Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u99	Sergei Anatolyevich, please. Talk to me. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. I owe you something big for this day's speech. Dear National Deputies! Our faction will be in the first reading supporting this bill, but once again, we need to look carefully at the fact that we do not "paint the child" as long as we assume that, by coming out of these changes, we are not directly going out, we are not going to accept voluntary restrictions in external trade that are unacceptable to Ukraine. Regarding the implementation of our domestic legislation to the Gautian norms and to the WTO treaties under the anti-dumping investigation regime, there is also a lack of care. Moreover, unfortunately, there was no proposal to repeal the law on external activities of pearls that are now there, such as imports without being imported into customs territory or exports without being exported from customs territory that are now polluting the text of this. This document. So I would ask the Economic Policy Committee to join the Committee on Finance and Banking in furthering the second reading, so that we can work together on the final document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u101	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u102	Xenia Leapina, "Our Ukraine." I would like to stress that this bill is primarily aimed at improving the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy, because it first removes export restrictions. In a global economy, under global market conditions, there is a country that has the best export opportunities. In time, such restrictions were imposed solely because of certain lobbying needs there while we were still moving from a regulated state to a market economy. When we want to win competition in market economy conditions, there should be no export restrictions at all. We have to help our exporters to get as far as possible out into the external markets. Then we'll win the global economy. It's as common as why we support it. As to the fact that our law on external economic activity is truly outdated and does not meet the modern realities and demands of the market today, it is true. I'm convinced that we need to go back to it and maybe work on it a lot to bring it to today's realities and needs, first of all, to contribute to the maximum promotion of exports of Ukrainian producers. Therefore, in the first reading, we can certainly support the speediest possible development of these articles, which meet the requirements of the WTO, and then we can return to regulation as a whole, and in general to the rewriting of this Law on External Economic Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u103	Pomorenko Grigory Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u104	Please give Peter Mikolaiovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u105	Peter Simonenko speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u106	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support this bill on the following. First, the changes noted in existing legislation mean that taxes and congregations, such as similar products of Ukrainian origin, are established for imported goods originating in WTO member States. And that means that cheap, including non-quality foreign products, will create, not substantial competition in the internal market, but simply a situation to destroy their own producer. I call on the radio and the TV set, especially those who do small and medium business. This bill, if it's adopted, will, first of all, strike a violent blow to the processing industry, to the food industry, first of all, to those who do small businesses. Now, let's say today it's triggering some kind of alarm in our own domestic commodities about the adoption of a law on the admission of SATs and the permission to import sugar-sort. Already, experts have confirmed the position of the Communist faction: this will reduce the area of 113,000 hectares of sugar beet production by two million tons next year, that is, 83,000 people are at risk of becoming unemployed. In order to create this number of new jobs, it takes three billion 300 million dollars, and no one's making it. The budget will lack the cost of the import duty of 500 million dollars. Thus, total unemployment -- 83,000 will suffer from it -- this is what awaits today, including those who will do small and medium-sized businesses. Thus, the Communist faction urges: Before making a final decision on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. We need to make economic calculations, consult with the Ukrainian public, then consider how this will hit the budget next year and only then accept the final.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u107	Thank you. There are no more willing ones to express themselves. I would ask, in preparing this draft for second reading, in the controversial positions that Sergey Teryochyn was talking about here, and Peter Simonenko might take the texts of the protocols that were signed with the respective countries and reflect: what legislation they have on promoting and importing and exporting in those countries with which the protocol was signed. Because it seems that some of the previous experts in the Cabinet signed what went down and then suggested that we ratify or clarify our legislation, based on what has already been done, and that we should not back down. I think that would be a completely acceptable thing to do. And I'm voting on this first-reading project as a basis. [[11:19:09]] For 374 Decision taken. With Terjehohin's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. From now on, they said a perfectly wise thing. It's just that when we look at these bills on the committees, we don't know the texts of the bilateral protocols that have been signed by the Ukrainian governments since 94. At our request, I'm sorry, we can step back a little bit, at our request of the committee: “Give us these protocols, the negotiation process is over, Taiwan and Kyrgyzstan remain, where there are absolutely no principles of position, give us protocols.” The government says to us: “This is classified information, confidential information, if MPs want to, let them go to the government and somewhere in the secret are going to get in touch with these protocols.” That's not right. We're taking laws forever. I would ask, Alexander Alexanderovich, that we accept, either you ask the government, or we have made a protocol decision to give the MPs complete kits.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u109	Sergei Anatolyovich, I answer your question in this way. Well, I'm not commenting on the quality of my comments, because you just said the right thing -- that would be immodest. And with respect to your proposal, I made a written request to the Cabinet of Ministers on this subject, and at a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Vice-Prime Minister, we agreed that at the Secretariat you could read all the material relating to the protocols signed with regard to the admission to the SOT by all the subjects over the past 12 years. Peter Simonenko, for reasons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u110	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters! Why does a faction of Communists vote against the adoption of such laws? We will vote in favour of those laws that protect our domestic producer. But why do we vote against it? The negotiation process takes place for more than ten years. Two presidents. One was accused of taking an anti-government position and anti-national politics, and the other was doing the same. We have 10 governments, and a few governments here in the Supreme Council, we've been fired from our jobs, and I'm sorry, that's exactly what I'm saying, for mistrusting these governments, but they've taken part in the negotiating process. They took responsibility, expressed some oligarchic groups, and made commitments, coming out of their own interests. We're not allowed to familiarize ourselves with the protocols today. Those who voted are national deputies, none but individual government officials know the meaning of these arrangements. We are voting blindly, and the future generation of an independent Ukraine will be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u111	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, for that observation. Let us consider this detail: In international law, governments, regardless of their composition, make decisions that are then binding on the State. But you're absolutely right about that. You are absolutely right in the sense that now political reform, the dependence of parliament and government is one that obliges deputies to look both at the composition of government and at the decisions it makes. So I think this situation is going to be rectified. Platinum was the last to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u112	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, made very good remarks in the hall. I want to inform my colleagues that when the committee prepared for its first reading, it was possible for each member of the committee to get acquainted with the Ministry of Economics. But I think all MPs should have the opportunity. That's why you said it right, I support it. And please, the law is very complicated, very important, so before the second reading, the committee is asking for proposals that will be taken into account and put into the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u113	Thank you. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Military Servants, Military Bindings and Reserves, with proposals from the President, is under consideration. Reported by Deputy Defence Minister Nestadima Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u114	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. On 16 March 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Social Protection of Military, Military and Reservist Officials for Teaching and Special Meetings". The Act proposes to improve social relations in the social protection of military personnel and their families. The president of Ukraine is invited to reconsider the proposed law with his proposals. In particular, the President of Ukraine is invited to address the following issues: the definition of the concept and the components of the financial security of military personnel, others established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine military formations and law enforcement agencies of special purpose. In fact, it is a matter of creating legislative grounds for equalizing the size of the financial provision of all military personnel. Another proposal for the acquisition of property at the expense of the budget for some of the benefits to members of the families of military personnel regarding the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death, death or disability of military personnel is the introduction of ten-year financial security in these cases, with regard to the provision of military personnel and their families by free travel on vacation and some other matters. During the process, the law, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence of Ukraine, and the proposals of the President of Ukraine are taken into account. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Please have a seat. Stepanovich Bull's co-reporter from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u116	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. The laws that are proposed for your consideration today provide for a legislative arrangement for guarantees of State support for members of the armed forces and their families in the right and social spheres, as well as guarantees related to the conduct of the service. In particular, the protection of their rights, health care, medical care, education, and so forth. The law was passed on March 16, 2006, and on April 7, 2006 the President returned it with his comments. The National Security and Defence Committee considered the President's comments and suggestions and considered them in full scope. In addition, given that since the President's return to Parliament of the Act, some time had passed and legislative changes had taken place during that period, the Committee had to make separate amendments to it, both in terms of technical orientation and in addition to the effect that other laws had become effective. We also consider the amendments of the Cabinet of Ministers to that law, which came on October 19, this year. This is mainly true of articles 11 and 16. Taking into account the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers will allow for the coordination of the joint actions of Parliament, the government in regulating the legislative framework for the social protection of military personnel and their families. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has worked out the text of the bill with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, which have been made to it by other observations and amendments, and there are no comments to it. I want to stop at a moment like this. According to the audit, the Court of Auditors has found that the legal regulation of the payment of travel allowances for sanitary treatment of military personnel and members of their families has been flawed. The Court of Auditors considers that the changes made in the past to the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families have not taken into account the terms of the Agreement between the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States on the Social and Legal Guarantees of Military Servants. This agreement was signed in Minsk on February 14, 1992. In doing so, legal and regulatory aids were introduced for travel payments in accordance with the rules of the agreement. At that time, however, these benefits were not provided for in Ukraine’s relevant laws, especially in the Ukrainian law on social and legal protection of military personnel and their families. And in some cases they do not meet other requirements of current legislation. In this regard, the Head of the Supreme Council commissioned the National Security and Defence Committee to make appropriate proposals. In this connection, the committee proposed amendments to article 11 of the Law. It refers to the fact that military personnel will pay 25 percent and their families 50 percent of the cost of travel, except when other pay conditions are established by law. This action is proposed as of January 1, 2008, the following financial year. The draft law that you are presented with is supported by the Ministry of Defence, Minpraci, the State Border Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, and other state authorities. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee proposes to support the amended law and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Kabmin and the National Deputies, members of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u117	Have a seat, please. We view this project as a document that came from the President's veto, with the President's comments. Since all comments are taken into account by the committee, in addition to the addition are from the Cabinet of Ministers, which improves the text of the document, it can be voted on as a whole if there is no objection. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for adoption in the whole of this law, taking into account the President's proposals, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputies. Please. [[11:32:02]] For a total of 407 national deputies. Decision taken. The Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act is being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. And this is what Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Mikolayovich Kotlar will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March 2006 was not signed by the President and was returned to the Supreme Council with a proposal to abolish it for such reasons. The conceptual principles of the law, its numerous norms do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the requirements of international legal instruments, and the law also contains a wide range of internal contradictions. The main points made to the law are these. The law is based on the concept of a person’s right to personal data. Such an approach is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, is contrary to the Civil Code of Ukraine, as well as to the approaches enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as in the documents of the Council of Europe. According to these legal instruments, the right to personal data is treated as a human right, that is, a personal right. Personal data cannot be an object of the institution of property law. The right to privacy is provided for the legal protection of information about it. Personal data is the object of such a relationship. In particular, according to article 32 of the Constitution, no one can get involved in his personal family life except in the cases provided for in the Constitution. The same approach has found further development in the Civil Codex of Ukraine. Furthermore, article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights also provides that the protection of personal data should be viewed as a personal right, a right to respect for privacy. This position was further enshrined in numerous decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that part four of article 38 of the Ukrainian Information Law does not refer to the creation of the right to personal data as the basis for the creation of ownership of information. Furthermore, the law does not comply with international standards in this area, particularly those established by the European Council Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, as well as those established by the European Parliament and Council Directive 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. In particular, the law does not address such important personal data protection issues as the process of destruction of personal data, the division of personal data into general personal data and vulnerable personal data. Such a division is essential and necessary for the establishment of a special regime for the protection of vulnerable personal data, for the prohibition of the integration of personal databases processed for various purposes, for the establishment of special orderly access to public data, and for the particularity of access to information about yourself. It is also unreasonable to require article 26 of the law on the definition of a competent personal data protection authority, the classification of its functions as arbitrary functions and control functions, such as control over the enforcement of legislation, including the provision of unhindered access to premises where personal data are processed. [[This is a personal database registration.]] The integration in one body of these functions will not ensure the creation of an effective personal data protection control mechanism. In addition, the law provides that the authorized personal data protection authority be granted the right of unimpeded access to premises where personal data are processed. This does not conflict with article 30, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of entry into the home or other possession of a person, whether they are examined or searched differently than the court’s reasoned decision. These are just the basic comments to the law, and for these reasons, the President is proposing that this option be repealed and that a new edition be prepared. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of Justice, together with the President's Secretariat, is now finalizing a revised law on the protection of information about a person. A preliminary draft of this law was carried out by an expert at the Council of Europe and the European Commission. We are now taking into account the experts' comments and will soon be ready to propose to you a new law on the protection of personal data information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down, please. What does the committee think about this? The Bologna Vitali Petrovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education. As long as he's taking the floor, I'm addressing some of the deputies: we're living in this age of information boom, a lot of people are using mobile phones, and naturally, they're being consulted in the session room about the laws that we're considering, that's a clear thing. But that's what happens. I notice that the participants are starting to talk, and we're jamming them. Then you tell me I'll stop the session. You'll talk, then we'll move on. Or speak in such a way that it is not demoralized or hindered by neighbors. Please, I beg you. Because I can even hear the girls talking in the back row. Speak, please. I'm sorry I stopped the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u120	Your Honor, Alexander Alexander the Honorable Fellows, are invited! At its meeting on 18 October, the Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council considered the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act and adopted, in accordance with article 130, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, the proposal to amend this law to the Committee on Science and Education. In doing so, we used the following arguments. First, the Constitution of Ukraine defines a fairly large amount of citizens' rights, but the appropriate technologies for implementing these rights are not properly prescribed in terms of protecting privacy, protecting against unauthorized or sanctioned interference in this private life. This is true of the great array of problems that exist in the world now, and Ukraine is also faced with these problems, problems related to the collection, processing of various databases. In ancient times, even the knowledge of man’s name was thought to give power to the man who possessed it. What about the vast array of private information that can destroy both human life and its business, its future, and the need to avoid other arguments? It has to be stressed that Ukraine is delaying this process, and if we reject this law completely, this time will continue and these problems will become even more acute, so this proposal is to complete, rework, maybe to the very extent, by the power of the committee, the Human Rights Commissioner, the experts we see fit. I will add to the delay that Ukraine only signed the European Council in 2005 and was adopted in 1981 with regard to the protection of human rights in relation to automated personal databases. And this Council of Europe number 108 is not yet ratified by us. So please support the proposal to redraft the proposed law to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Please have a seat. Well, actually, the President made his proposals, which are fully supported by the committee, where experts sit and know that this project needs to be seriously worked out. Therefore, the Committee's conclusion and the proposal for a vote -- to be sent for further work -- do not seem to raise objections. If so, I can put it to a vote. So I'm betting on the vote: the redrafting. [[11:41:30.]] For 368 Decision taken. For reasons Peter Simonenko would like to express himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u122	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially committee members, who are the main ones: preparing this bill for consideration in the Supreme Council, please look carefully at this very serious danger of turning personal information into a particular kind of business. And this is really a threat to many people about the information that's being accumulated by electronic media and how it's going to be used. That's why we, the Communist faction, voted in favour of sending for work and looking very seriously at the very contents of that information. If a person has previously obtained a passport, practically according to the information officially entered on his passport, such as a personal identification, on this, practically, has been registered, it is now a much broader circle of information that will put at risk not only personal problems but also family, family, family, family, loved ones, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u123	A draft Law on Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine is under consideration for 2006-2015 with the President's proposals. The Deputy Minister for Transport and Communications, Leonid Ivanovich Netudihat, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u124	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, in recent years Ukraine has been actively involved in the global process of creating an open information society in which everyone can create, access, use and exchange information and knowledge. In this direction, a global summit on information society, parliamentary hearings on information society development, and Presidential Decree on the implementation of new information technologies was launched. The basic documents adopted at the global information society summit are a declaration of principles and a plan of action to which, by the way, Ukraine has joined, determine the basic priorities of the information society, as well as our common desire and determination to build a people-centred, open to all and development-oriented information society. At the same time, the country's pursuit of sustainable development requires the identification of strategic goals and priorities for the state, coordination, consolidation of state and private sector action in achieving them. The Presidential Decree on the first priority tasks for the introduction of new information technologies states that the development of information society in Ukraine is one of the priorities of state policy. In Ukraine, legislation on a national information programme defines a national information programme as a set of interrelated tasks aimed at the implementation of public policy, as well as long-term socio-economic, scientific and technical, national and cultural development of the state. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is required to report annually on the status of information in Ukraine on the activities of the information programme for the next three years and on the information programme for the next financial year, identifying sources of funding, in order to present and approve the National Information Programme. It is noted that the priorities in the field of information should not be constant, but should be determined for a certain period and adjusted depending on the situation. This creates an opportunity for the state to respond responsibly to the needs of the market and society in the field of information. The meagre inadequacy of the implementation of mechanisms that repeat and duplicate legislation on the national information programme has led the President of Ukraine to apply the veto to the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 16 March of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine for 2006-2015. The law that came to the signature of the President of Ukraine, which we are currently discussing, does not cancel the mechanism of the national information programme, but introduces a parallel mechanism that will lead to duplication of activities in the relevant spheres and will require considerable time and costs. On the other hand, the government understands and agrees with the the thesis that the mechanism of the national information programme needs to be improved to take into account the real practice of its application. It is at the direction of the Government of Mintrance that a draft of appropriate amendments is being prepared for legislation on a Nazi programme of information that takes into account the proposals made by the Supreme Audit Office of Ukraine and the Court of Auditors. In the first quarter of the following year, relevant bills will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, it should be noted that according to the decree of the President of Ukraine, a draft decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the national strategy for the formation and development of information society in Ukraine has been developed with the participation of other central executive bodies. This project sets out the objectives and priorities of creating an information society in Ukraine, the proposed new implementation mechanism, the indicative funding volumes and their sources, the implementation stages and the system of evaluation indicators for each project. In developing the draft strategy, special attention was paid to avoiding duplication of legislation on a national information program. The new mechanisms include the creation of separate development institutes, namely, the Electronic Ukraine consortium, which is created with the participation of public and private enterprises with the aim of implementing the national programme “Electronic Ukraine”, the ICT Investment Fund is formed by the contribution of the State and the private sector, the public service fund is formed by the accounting of telecommunications operators, the National Institute of Management is a specialized higher education institution, the main task of which will be to prepare managers of the higher chain of management of the new formation and so on. Thus, from the perspective of the President of Ukraine and the government, it is seen that the implementation of the provisions set out in the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Development of the Information Society of Ukraine does not require a parallel legislative settlement. The other one. The existing mechanism of the national information programme needs to be improved, taking into account the real practice of its application. In Ukraine, there must be a national strategy for the formation and development of an information society based on Ukraine's declaration of European choice as a long-term strategy for social and economic development. Under the existing legislative field in the field of information, the national strategy for the formation and development of the information society should be approved by the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Together, we want a steady growth in the economy, the well-being of our citizens, free access to information and knowledge. If we are all together, our desires will be realized. I am very grateful to the law makers and to the distinguished people’s deputies who participated actively in his work. I assure you that this material will necessarily be included in the future work of the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u125	Thank you. It's a motion to take it off the table, to work it out. If you have any questions, you can ask. But let us also listen to the opinion of the committee, which, by the way, came to the same conclusion. Please. The word is given by Zaboloticky Vitaly Petrovich, deputy head of the Committee. It's stuck. I'm sorry. Science and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u126	Thank you. The Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the bill. As with the previous law, according to article 130, paragraph 8, of the Rules, the Committee proposes to send a bill for the work of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education. And so in some ways, we want to express our opinion and our disagreement with what my predecessor said in the rostrum, the deputy minister, is that there is an urgent need for an appropriate legislative regulation to form an information society, even though it is understood that it is a spontaneously occurring society, whether we will adopt these laws or not, but the existing norms emphasize the very technical, technological, technological aspects of the introduction of information technology. There is a need, a great need to take into account the relevant social consequences of this process. The educational consequences, the moral consequences, not to mention the settlement of property rights and other aspects. In addition, Ukraine is a member of a wide range of international organizations starting with the UN and many other organizations, making appropriate international decisions to promote the establishment of an information society. Ukraine, for the time being, has been wondering whether to follow the relevant international agreements and charters, particularly. Charters, the decision of the Tunisian and Geneva summits on the development of information society. So there is a need for such a revision, not a rejection, of the bill, of the committee itself, and of the involvement of relevant experts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u127	Wait a minute, Vitali Petrovich, you have a question for Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please. And the school has a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u128	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”, representative of the President of the Supreme Council. I want to ask the honourable reporter why he missed the main reason for the President's return in his report. Because there are two laws in Ukraine in this area, “On the Concept of the National Information Programme” and “On the National Information Programme”. Where appropriate actions are envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers and other executive bodies, where budget funding is foreseen and the State Budget Act of Ukraine allocates funds for this programme each year. Please tell me why you need a parallel document that provides another mechanism of activity in the same area, which requires two action plans that have different measures, are planned differently, and are financed differently. Who needs such duplication in this area?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. I can only reply, once again, to the main argument that the existing norms and those to which you referred, Yuri Bogdanovich, in most cases, make an emphasis or technical understanding of the information process itself. In fact, even if we look at the very term of information, it sometimes interprets how computers are installed and connected to the Internet. And that's the point. I would like to stress that the appropriate work should give this law a special distinction between the social aspects of the establishment of an information society in Ukraine. I'll add that we have far more plans than two. And Ukraine's 200-300-year-old development strategy, and we don't miss it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u130	However, on April 11, when Vitali Petrovich was not a deputy, you asked him a question as if he had brought him in. Please, School Andrew asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u132	I ask, once again, many make remarks, a big break between the announcement and the performance. You can shorten it, eventually, but for your convenience, you'll at least see what you're talking about. So it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u133	I realize I'm already focused. Thank you. I would like to continue, in fact, the question that Mr. Klukkowski asked the previous one and point out, first of all, when there are certain legislative acts on this subject, it is necessary to argue the need for the adoption of the following in more detail. Because, believe me, natural questions arise, that's the first. And the second question, you see, is the concept of developing an information society in Ukraine, it can't be made by one law. It is not the laws that decide, believe me, but it is the resources that the State needs to spend and meet the obligations that it has made. Does this law actually regulate whether you take this part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u134	Thank you, Andry Vasilovich, for asking. You half said yourself that the information processes themselves, they're not basically caused by the state, and they're not regulated by the state. In some ways, we're conducting, rather, we can talk about following certain principles of public policy in this area in education, in particular. And the need to adopt new laws is due to the fact that maybe half of those information laws were passed when we didn't really understand what an information, post-industrial society was -- in the early 1990s. And the world of information technology itself can be updated every three years, and moral aging is taking place. Similarly, the moral statutes of old may make them obsolete. We know that not only the Information Laws do not work. I can say the Education Act that exists. But it has little effect on, say, such a principled improvement in this education. He won't do rhetoric. Thank you. I'll ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u135	Tomenko, last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Here's the question, and the reasoning. I think maybe we shouldn't have such a scientific discussion in the session room about the overall strategy of our legislative activity. Because it's so complicated that Yuri Bogdanovich here is absolutely right. So I don't understand the relationship in the decision making, what are the basic principles, the concept and the program? My approach is very simple. The basic principles can be only one set out in the Constitution — the basic principles of internal and external politics. Next. The Supreme Council could adopt, for example, a concept that is already a concept of information policy. Government programs would likely have to adopt clear mechanisms, tools, and funding. So there are strategic things and imperatives. There's no mandatory decision in this document, and you say you have to do this. I read here just to provide, to strengthen, to deepen here is nothing for the information society. So I would advise the committee to look at, and maybe really, the way that we've already talked about changing the existing legislation and talking to the government about imperative specific things like this information society to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, I just want to say that the committee and I personally had nothing to do with the lines that you read and said, and for the rest, I only listened gratefully and I would accept it as a guide to action.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u138	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I've come to realize that the question of how this project is being expressed is that it can be put to a vote because both the committee and the president are proposing that this document be sent for further work. The direction for pre-processing is also a deviation. Then I put a motion like that to a vote. Reject this project and send it for processing. Please, there's a vote, the committee's proposal is in. [[11:58:34]] For 393 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in half an hour there will be an extension of the session, where you will be able to express yourself in a variety of ways, as stipulated in the Rules. That's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u139	Members, please take your seats. Now it's going to be a different procedure. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign in. Please set rules and the word has Sass. Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. How? A tooth, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u140	Valentin Zubov, "Bloka Yulii Timoshenko" faction. Dear colleagues, the people's deputies, the respectable voters, the radios! As the well - known Chinese proverb says, there is time to clear the stones, and it is time to collect them. I think today we, like all Ukrainian citizens, have reason to take stock of the first parliamentary elections this year. As you recall, the main political parties that took part in the elections have promised you absolutely everything, in any event, some of them already have a better life today, as the Party of the Regions has done. The Communist Party had promised this better life before. Well, the socialist party that joined them also promised a good, satisfied, peaceful, sweet life. As a result, today we have come up with serious developments related to the advent of the heating season. And every day, television tells us that dozens and hundreds of cities in Ukraine are not ready for the heating season. I am deeply convinced that today's anti-crisis coalition will not solve the challenges facing the country. Regrettably, not only would she not decide on the President's decision, because he simply could not decide, would not hurry, would not solve the anti-crisis coalition, because the very principle of its operation was aimed at securing the interests of large capital, not the country and its people. Mr. Czernovetski will not decide who, all of you respected fellow citizens, first of all, sent you beautiful cards with his own so-called childish smile, promising you a food package and you received it and as a result the prices for all services rose three or four times. I think after December 1st, you'll realize that the price of the package that you took and sold your voice with this will cost each family about $30 or $60,000. Therefore, in closing the statement, I want to say the following: we must all prepare for the serious struggles of defending our vital interests and our families and our children. Until we all learn together the power to consider ourselves, with our problems, with the problems of our children, there will be no result. We are therefore consolidated and ready to take our interests seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u141	I ask you, the word is given to Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich, to be careful and correct in everyone's statements, because it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u142	Yuri Gnatkewicz, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear compatriots! Deputies! On November 9, Ukraine will celebrate the Day of Ukrainian Writing and Language. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you with this holiday. To greet all the Ukrainians with this day I also have an assignment from the Education Society of Taras Shevchenk, who initiated its implementation. In a linguistic sense, Ukraine is a nation with good prospects. And don't be surprised that there are no so-called Russian-linguistic people in Ukraine. The language has several levels. If a person is not able to speak fluently, but he understands it well when he reads or listens, he has passive language. There are virtually no people in Ukraine today who do not understand Ukrainian written or oral texts. And there are a lot of deputies in this room who don't dare or won't speak English, but they understand 100 percent. So they're not Russian-linguistic, they're Russian-speaking and Ukrainian-speaking at the same time. The programme objective of Education is the Ukrainian National Revival. To put it simply, this goal is to remind Ukrainians that they are Ukrainians, that they have their national history, culture, literature, at last, their own national language, and that they should not be afraid or ashamed to communicate publicly in their own language, that is, have national dignity. But it was found that, in 340 years, Ukraine was part of the Russian state, the Russian kings, and then the leaders succeeded in bending the national spine of many Ukrainians, as it were, nationalizing them, depriving them. As enlightened ones, we are often called “nationally disturbed. ” And when I go to Kiev, I don't hear much of the Ukrainian language. And that really bothers me in the context of our nation's prospects. That is, it will exist in the future in 100 years' time alone, or perhaps today's Ukraine will fall into two nations. There are no two - language nations. If the nation has two languages, they are already two nations. Because it's not just like Lenin said, it's a communication medium, it's also a national code. That is why the slogan “Two Languages – One Nation” is provocative because it leads in the future to the breakup of Ukraine into two nations or maybe two states. And the first bell we heard was from Sierra Donetsk. “Education” has a different password. The Polish and Czechs showed us an example. In Prague, at the time of the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Czech could only be heard in deaf villages. But the Czech authorities and the Czech national bourgeoisie took the national rebirth course and led the intelligence and the entire nation. Ladies and gentlemen, ever since I was 66 years old, people don't go where they want to go, they go where they're going. For 70 years he was taken to communism and was on his way. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u143	Bodnar Olga Borisovna is following her, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u144	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, respected chairman, respected radio and TV listeners. I want to talk to you about a problem that may not seem very serious to anyone or that might not be worth the attention, such as, say, making money or, I don't know, health and so on. I want to tell you that in this world we're not living alone, we're going to live with the animal world. And if the issue of domestic animals is somehow settled in our legislation, and, let's say, it doesn't raise any special warnings, any observations, unless only on the side of the sanitary epidemiological issue, the question of animals that are kept at home, those that are considered domestic animals, are extremely important. It saddens me that there are no public hearings on this issue in high forums. Why do I want to draw your attention to this very question? Today this question was raised because we had to consider this bill, which deals with the protection of animals from ill-treatment, in the next plenary week, we will refer to it. But I want you to understand that those animals that live with us really need protection from our cruel behavior. The problem of keeping animals has been raised and raised among the citizens who support them and who do not support them. Those who have animals well know that there are no conditions to keep them free from violations of legislation. People who do not have them feel that their rights are being violated. Municipal authorities fail to meet their obligations to ensure that animals can be maintained. I want to say that our animals represent us abroad and represent us beautifully, and that's why now there's going to be an example of the world championship in Poznan, Poland. So please do not forget that these beings, given to us by God for our common life, need our protection if we are to consider a bill regarding the prohibition of animal cruelty and the maintenance and treatment of domestic animals. 99 percent of our citizens have animals. I think this is a question that needs to be discussed at public hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u145	Thank you. Make such an offer. Sergey Shevchuk speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u146	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In the Ukrainian Parliament, there is the practice of creating activities of informal interfractional groups in the direction of work or on other criteria. At a meeting of a group of Ukrainian National Deputies, together with the leadership of the Volin Regional Government Administration and the Volin District Council, held on November 1, the initiative to establish an interfractional parliamentary association called “Volin” was ripe. The task of unification is to promote the development of the Volin region, to preserve its architectural, conservation, unique nature and natural resources, and the famous historical traditions of the land. I'll remind you that these traditions were formed back in the days of Danil Galicsky. The center of Volini - Lutsk was a meeting place for monarchs in Europe in medieval times, and later this country repeatedly demonstrated examples of the protection of Ukrainian national interests. At the time of independence, Volin demonstrated, among the first Euro-Integration Directions, a euro-region was created, it was part of the border areas of Ukraine, Poland and Belarus. In the past, it was in Lutsk that a meeting was held between the heads of parliaments of Ukraine, Poland and Lithuania, which announced the initiative to create an inter-Parliamentary Ukrainian-Polish-Lithuanian Assembly. Today, Volin, like other regions, has faced new challenges and, at the same time, there are clear new prospects for the European community. And the new democratic Volinian government needs both support and concerted action by central, local authorities and local self - government. This is also the reason for the creation of the “Volin” National Deputys Anatoly Gorbatyuk, Yuri Gnatkevich, Vladimir Karpuk, Eugene Kirilczuk, Peter Kravczuk, Adam Martinuk, Mikola Martinenko, Sergei Politchuk, Mikola Petruk, Gregory Smituk, Les Tanjuk, Sergei Shevchuk, Jaroslav Fedorchuk. [[Region Party]] [[BUT]] [["Our Ukraine."]] [[BUT]] [[BUT]] [[IPU]] [["Our Ukraine."]] [[BUT]] [[BUT]] [[Region Party]] [["Our Ukraine."]] [[BUT]] [[BUT]] Head of the factional union of Adam Martinyuk, the elected first deputy head of the Supreme Council. And we invite all the national deputies who have family ties, were born or worked in this unique part of Ukraine, to close cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u147	Thank you. The word is Kalashnikov. After him, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u148	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions, Anti-Crist Coalition I would like to reiterate from this rostrum that all the measures that are being taken today by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the 2007 budget discussion on the social protection of Ukraine's forces, the veterans of the force structures, are aimed exclusively at protecting and improving the social situation of the country's representatives today. Why am I stressing this one more time? It is because today the information does not reach the representatives of the forces that do not reach the veterans. They have unreliable information that causes misunderstandings. So from this rostrum, once again, the anti-crisis coalition of the Party of Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Communist Party of Ukraine has always directed and will focus its efforts to improve the social situation of the people who are now in exile as supporters of the country. All the amendments that have been made and are now being considered in the budget committee are aimed exclusively at improving social protection, increasing pensions, balancing pension ratios between 2-3 percent, which have huge pensions, and in general those who are currently in need of additional social protection. I would like to stress that the National Security and Defence Committee is focusing all its efforts on making this work constructive, pragmatic and consistent. So speaking to Ukrainian citizens who have a bearing on this social group, I would like to stress once again. Dear representatives of the power structures of the state, you are the best patriots of the state. You serve the state in the most difficult conditions, as the best sons of Ukraine do. So by addressing you again, I would like to emphasize that you will never be defenseless. We will never allow your social rights to be restricted. Serve Ukraine! Serve the Fatherland! Your work is more necessary than ever for our nation. With respect, and I assure you, each representative. of those representing the antichrist coalition, all its forces will focus on this activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u149	Thank you, too. Tomenko's on. Behind him, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to one very serious problem that has not recently been discussed by society, experts and politicians. So historically, in the days of President Leonid Kuchma, it was fashionable to have such a business family, so to speak, very many children, relatives, high-income brothers had the most advantageous jobs in the business and felt comfortable enough. In Victor Yushchenka's time, this social disaster, I think, went to a different plane -- and there was this story, or this phenomenon, which was called the term "cummism," when so many godparents and other indirect levels of relatives began to take up positions at the level of central authority and local authority. Today, suddenly, there's been a third stage in this process, I call this stage -- this kind of familyness at the level of local authority. Since we are discussing central authority, because of the different circumstances in the lists of local councils or community assignments at city level, villages, villages will soon be handed over as an inheritance. I recently read in the press that in Kiev, for example, such a system is produced and can serve as a reference in a negative sense. For example, in the city in the deputy corps, the position was divided in this way: the husband of the city's head, Denis Kumarnicki, heads the faction and controls the Kyivmishkbud through the observation council; the son of the city's head, Stepan Černovecki, heads the “Pravekbank”, is a deputy and controls the game business of Kiev; the son-in-law of the city's head, Vjacheslav Suprunenko, is the deputy of Kievrada and controls all land issues; the brother-in-law of the city's head, Alexander Suprunenko, is also the deputy of Kyivradya and controls property issues. This is just the first level of the family. If we take the second level of this family, we're going to see that today in Kiev, to take any position, we're going to have to belong to either the Chernewsky family, the Suprunk family or the Komarnick family. I would also like to draw the attention of law enforcement agencies, because this language of the law is called corruption, when you are assigned to a position of business or political power directly linked to the decision of the municipal authority of your family representative, you are taking a step called political corruption. Dear friends, we've been successful in your fight against godfathers, so let's start fighting family ties in the local defect system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u151	Thank you very much. But, Mikola Vladimirovich, pick up the transcript and correct one phrase there. You said, "the man of the wife of the head." It's obviously the head itself, isn't it? Please, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u152	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, in the beginning I have to give a brief answer to the “Jule love” of Teeth, which here was about the Socialist Party. We have, sir, as you say, not worked out, because, as you remember, under many known conditions and conditions, you ran from a faction of socialists to a faction of “julelovers” when the Socialists were in opposition and exile, and the “julebees” were fiercely united and played with “chicken-lovers”. Maybe that's why since then you've known the problem of the price of such transitions and prices in general. But you can talk about them. But there was another point. On February 2, 2007, a 70-year-old teacher came into the world. National teacher of the USSR, a well-deserved teacher of Ukraine, director of the famous village of Sahnivka in Cherkašina, Alexander Antonovich Zaharenko, a deputy of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, two appeals. The pedagogical community, society, will celebrate this anniversary of the glorious son of Ukraine, and it would be wise and honorable for the state to declare 2007 Zechariah in Ukraine. This would be worthy of respect for the feats of the rural teacher, the heir to the famous Makarenko and Suhamlinsky. Minister Stanislav Nikolayenko, as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council, made a death sentence for the parliamentary hearing of education problems. This proposal was unanimously accepted by the participants, and the appropriate submission of the Supreme Council was sent to President Kuchma of that time, who ignored it. That's right: the little one doesn't like the big one. At the Poltava Pedagogical Forum in May 2005, the educational community made this proposal to President Yushchenk, who participated in the forum, agreed with her, and instructed him to refer him to the appropriate submission. It was sent by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Cherkas Observatories. Yet, the question has not yet been resolved, which also fits the style of the work of today’s President: much to speak, resonate, and draw with the solution of completely simple questions to infinity. In connection with the approaching of the Jubilee, the minister of education and science recently referred to the President again on this issue, and there is hope that it will finally be resolved. But there is another problem: The wife, the associate of the great teacher Vera Petrovna Zacharchenko in connection with the elderly and the absence of relatives and loved ones in Sachnyvka, moved to live in Kiev to a son who lives in a one - room apartment with his wife and two young children, is in line to improve housing, but the turn is clearly moving very slowly, and it is unlikely that the issue will soon be resolved. In this connection, the Socialist Party, the Ministry of Education, the educational and scientific profession, and
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u153	Please finish, but 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u154	Now. . Addressed former mayor Kyiv with concern about housing for the widow of Zacharychenk. It was a precedent. At the time of Sukhomlinski's death, Vladimir Vasilovich Szczerbicky – then the first leader of Ukraine – immediately, I repeat, immediately set aside a three-bedroom apartment for Sukhmlinski's wife and two of his children. But Omelchenko refused. Well, now there's a call for Cherniewsky. Whether it will be resolved or not, I think the Supreme Council is now in a position to make a submission so that the living conditions of the family of Alexander Antonovich Zaharenka, the famous one for Ukraine, are properly arranged. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u155	Instead of Alexeieva, he agrees with Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Then there's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u156	Respectable radios, respected TVs! On behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to reiterate some of the concerns of many today -- both us parliamentarians and you, our voters -- about Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. The entry into the WTO under conditions that are determined by temporary Governments and several presidents, which we have condemned for criminal acts and many other things, will, of course, today only lead to the dismantling of Ukraine's economic sovereignty. And I believe that today we must understand that the strength of our State is in the power of a domestic producer. The weakness of our State is determined by the fact that the programme for joining the WTO is to strengthen the import, the dependence of our State. But I would like to illustrate our position on specific examples. We have considered several draft laws that allegedly define the conditions for Ukraine to join the SOT. These are the problems of importing raw sugar, the problems of exporting cattle, the problems of allowing foreign banks, the export of scrap metal and much more. And I want to illustrate that Ukraine is already being hit by an alarm today. Sugar confectionery are calling for the Communist faction to inform you, dear colleagues, immediately that this will lead to a reduction of 113,000 hectares of sugar beet seed in the next 2007 year. It is envisaged that 22 sugar factories will be closed. These are 83,000 unemployed Ukrainian citizens. This is a loss of a budget of at least 500 million bracelets. Today, a letter has already come from the Association of Producers of Crashes in Ukraine. And they're concluding that, in fact, we're going to lose this industry in the process of joining the U.S.S.A., which is a disaster, and a few tens of thousands of unemployed peasants are going to be dumped on the streets. This has been signed by all the leaders of the small-scale enterprises in Ukraine. They address us on behalf of those peasants who are awaiting State support and protection. Export of cattle. If anyone today thinks it's a simple joke, I want to warn you once again that this is actually going to be a chemical processing industry that is going to be destroyed, these are issues that are related to our shoe industry and others. Therefore, once again, I would like to emphasize that the new trading conditions in the unfinished reform are a threat to our economy. Once again, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues, and the adoption of laws to join the SOT will have a tremendous impact on the country's budget for 2007. Because we don't actually have tens of thousands of people out of work, that's a local budget income tax. These are issues that relate to real profit, and it will also be smaller. These are VAT issues and much more. That's why the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u157	Thank you, the word of the School will be followed by Nadush instead of Predry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head, reverent radio listeners, TV sets! I would like to immediately advise that, after my statement by the representative of the company, in protest of how the coalition voted for the WTO crisis to exit the anti-crisis coalition. I can see that I am supported by representatives of the anti-crisis coalition. The position should be fair to the end if something doesn't like the coalition's activities should go out if the minister is opposed he's coming out of the government he wrote a statement. It wrote a lot, and it turned out to be two, but if the position were to move at least. It is also necessary to be honest in this situation, and it is necessary to be honest not only before the electorate but also before ourselves. It does not like actions to go out in protest and thus draw attention to events that are not accepted and that are dangerous. Because I remember in the past the obstructions of the laws on SATs had taken place. And the sugar was brought here, and the rostrums were blocked, and the representatives of another political force, a representative, are now not in Parliament, he's already a minister, he's convinced us all that we need to bring import duties to the olives. I'm asking why we don't have olives growing in Ukraine. Rosley. If they grew up in Crimea 800 years ago, they could grow up 800 years later, and they should be introduced now. It was proposed and stood up, and it was not voted by certain factions to join the WTO because it was covered with a note of bananas, why bananas? Because it's going to grow, I understand. If they act that way, developing the economy of Ukraine's anti-crisis coalition, they'll start growing bananas. So I think it's necessary for it to be an honest position. Here we have held our honest stand in this calling, in which we hold and consider that when we talk to an international organization or an international organization, we need to clearly determine what and what this international organization is. The World Trade Organization unites those who trade, not those who exploit or coerce. A weak country that wants to become strong has two possibilities: not to become strong or to remain weak. There are no intermediate cases. If Ukraine wants to be the world champion of any kind of sport, we have to go to the championship first. To become a world trading partner, you have to become a WTO member, that's all. And we can only discuss advantages and disadvantages when we work at the WTO at an appropriate time period. I just want to express my doubts that this time too, the Supreme Council will support most of the voting laws that will facilitate Ukraine's entry into the WTO. I doubt it, but I would very much like to be wrong in my doubts and to be confirmed by the sincere statements made by those politicians who believe that voting today and yesterday was an honest position and this honest position will be maintained to the end. And no one will do evil, that is, speak “against”, vote “against” but act “in favour”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u159	Nadosha has the word, Knyazevitch will speak after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u160	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Unfortunately, for our political struggles, scandals, we have forgotten about a very important thing from the daily work of the National MP. We've forgotten about requests, one option of control on the spot. Each of us is faced with when people come to him and he is forced to respond to their problems by his own parliamentary request, and there are answers that come to him, which are written about anything at all, but not the point that was asked in the question. These things happen in virtually every MP. We have a regulation, article 221, which provides for the responsibility of officials for responding to parliamentary requests. Every third Friday, we can, in an idea, if the MP is dissatisfied with the answer, at least call the official or other manager there and ask him why he is not doing what he was asked to do. That's the first one. It's different. We can take a decision from the Supreme Council on a separate matter, at the individual work of an official. Sadly, though, during the six months of the Supreme Council’s work, we did not make the most of it. I myself faced a small example, for example, that on August 9, I approached the prosecutor of the city of Kremenchuk, Pavlučuk Viktor, about the destruction of the park in the center of Kremenchuk. 326 trees were destroyed. And the construction of the shopping center began at a frenzy. The prosecutor’s reply states: “The Kremenchütsky Department of Environmental Law Enforcement and Analytical Control has prepared a project suspension of construction works.” On September 5, I asked the Attorney General, Alexander Ivanovich, that in spite of the above, construction was not stopped. The Attorney General's response points to a violation of existing legislation, but the construction continues. On September 22, a parliamentary request was made from a group of deputies to the Attorney General that information from the City Administration and the architecture of the executive committee of the Cremencucci City Council did not provide construction work. Although construction continues. I have a question, and what we can't look at in the window, which is really going on. Why does the General refer. Not for his own investigation, but for the same person interested in the construction of the body. So I would like to address the Head of the Supreme Council, please, Alexander Alexandrovich, more effectively use 221 articles of the Supreme Council Rules. And we're finally starting to invite these officials here so they can keep an answer in front of all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u161	Oleg Volodymyrovich, I accept your observation. But please, if that is the case, take the initiative. Make an offer on a day like this according to the Rules to call such an employee. I'll contact the secretariat with an appropriate assignment. And I think that's what we have to do to make people know that discounts can't happen. Because you're referring to the D.A.'s office. I sent one document yesterday, a complex of more than 300 people in Pecherska, asking for a building in places where you can't forget the wires, impose houses, heights put in places where the shifts might be. And it turns out that the contractor is speaking out there, the land manager of the Attorney General's Office, with about forty parts of this content on Kiev. Since then, the D.A.'s been doing commercial activity, which is what this job is. That's why I think you're right. But he needs to stand here and answer that question, and others will see and answer it essentially. Thank you. Knyazevich has the word for Kryl, followed by Kirilenko instead of Omelchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the faction “Our Ukraine” expresses absolute support in the consistent, principled and principally economical foreign policy conducted by President Viktor Andrijevic Yushchenk of Ukraine. The main aspect of this policy remains, above all, the protection of the rights of our citizens who are abroad. The second is an increase, a significant increase in the amount of investment that goes into our country and eventually the expansion of those markets through which we can move our goods into world markets. At the same time, this policy is based on ensuring a reliable partnership with our neighbours, the essence of which is that Ukraine should respect all its obligations and, on the other hand, make an effort to achieve and protect its own interests. Then, as a result of this policy, Ukraine was finally granted market economy status. The recent negotiations with the EU on visa facilitation and the EU drawback regime have been successful. Then, Ukraine, at last, more and more with each day, claims itself to be a regional leader whose policy is not only to declare and share European values, but to introduce them in a balanced and consistent manner in our Baltic and Black Sea region. Ukraine has become the center of integration around the partnership of democratic choice, and Ukraine has become the centre of integration around the Black Sea partnership of GUAM. At the same time, we strongly protest against attempts to destabilize the process of continuing that foreign policy, which is practiced by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko of Ukraine. First of all, it's about initiatives to make serious adjustments to the principles of foreign and domestic policy, and the faction "Our Ukraine" is going to be categorically demarcated and backstop any initiative to decisively change foreign policy. On the other hand, those statements that are echoing from high-ranking crews about the need to extend the term of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine again will face opposition from our side, as this is in sharp contradiction with the Constitution of Ukraine. Finally, we express our protest against the statement made by Ambassador Blackomirdin of the Russian Federation, who allows himself to comment on the decisions of our courts and not to acknowledge them regarding lighthouses still in the illegal possession of the Russian Black Sea fleet. In this regard, the faction and the party "Our Ukraine" insists on the continuing foreign policy course of our nation announced after the 2004 presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u163	Thank you. Kirilenko, follow by Bacheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u164	Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Dnipropetrovština. Dear Alexander Alexander, colleagues, distinguished voters! It should be noted that there is a fairly coherent and uniquely synchronized activity in the parliament walls following Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. About ten laws, which attracted about 400 votes. It is indeed a unique case in the history of our parliamentary system of laws that have not been enacted for decades. But not everything is so idyllic. The first stumbling block may be the law that was taken out of consideration today, or transferred to the next plenary week, is the Law on Benefits, on Added Cost Tax for Agricultural Farmers. What the president suggested. In fact, what we voted with you on October 18 is the benefit to continue until 01.01.2008. But with one small explanation, since 01/01.2008, the President has proposed that the special taxation regime voted by the Supreme Council be abolished on October 18 of last month. What is meant by special treatment? Since 01.01.2008, agricultural enterprises will pay 9 percent of VAT and forestry and fishing 6 percent. This will also calculate the added value of the input and exit tax. Input tax. Farmers buy resources, fuel, plant protection products, added - cost equipment, and sell their products with added - cost taxes. Usually, these sums will collapse. I mean, peasants won't pay this tax, it'll collapse because the amount is going to go roughly. The president's suggesting we cancel. This means that on January 1, 2008, 3.2, 3.4 billion dollars were removed from farmers. In the last 10 years, profits have never exceeded 1 billion, and they have resulted in losses. Of course it will happen. The WTO does not object to the tax regime that we have proposed. So what's the solution to the President, I'm asking him to agree to the decision of the Supreme Council on October 18th and sign this law, and he called it off. And in exchange for the appeal, he proposed the law that provides for a special tax regime from 01.01.2008. I understand that the unpopular decision for the President, but then it's going to take 3.2, 3.4 billion to look into the budget and we can't get direct support anymore, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, just focus on the green box -- it's environmental, conservation, melioration, limestone, plastering, drying. It's also important, but it's indirect support, it's only about a certain part of Ukraine -- Polissa and the South, and the other part. I mean, honourable colleagues, I'm asking, really, that we ask the President once again to sign our law, but that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u165	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Either you or you can prepare the President's request, or I can sign off on your proposal. Please prepare, and I will gladly do so. Thank you. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry is speaking. She'll be followed by a Mordovian instead of a Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u166	Dear Alexanderovich! Respectable radios, televised! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today I went to this rostrum to raise a very important question, which has been very often covered in the press lately. It's about tromadola. I would like to point out right now that this is a strong analgesic. However, some researchers and practitioners noted the development of tolerance and drug dependence after prolonged therapeutic doses. Recently, the legal turnover of tromadola has been severe. It is only available on special sample recipes. However, since the tightening of the leave rules, the legal turnover of tromadoles has remained at the same level. It should therefore be considered that the main problem is illegal trafficking. According to some figures, it is the illegal traffic of tromadola in Ukraine that is ten times more than legal health. Therefore, as I have already stated at the press conference in Donetsk, I would like to reiterate the problem of tromadola, not as a medical one, but as a social one. In Ukraine today, 21 enterprises produce tromadola. And he's doing part of it abroad. Some of our patients use it when they have a myocardial infarction, joint pain, trauma. A well-known physician of the Middle Ages, Paracia, said: "Everything is poison and everything is medicine. And only the dose makes the substance poison or medicine.” This expression can explain not only medical but also social problems today with tromadola. So far, no place for the production and sale of illegal tromadola has been identified by law enforcement authorities. Why pharmacies that are linked to the underground implementation of tromadola are not closed. I appeal to the Minister of the Interior and to your responsible temptations, your department depends on both health and the lives of young people who are on a terrible path of drug abuse. The movement of tromadol on the market in this amount cannot be overlooked! Take action. And I am addressing the Minister of Health. Take strict measures towards those pharmacies that are illegally implementing tromadola today. I am addressing regional leaders. In your power, the channels of illegal execution and manufacture of tromadola are blocked. Take action. And then the theme for the sensations that exist today and the endless talks about the tromad in Ukraine will be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u167	Thank you. Murderer Leonid Mikhailovich, following him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u168	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I would like to draw your attention to the question of the return of the creative heritage of our outstanding fellow countrymen who, due to some historical circumstances in the past century, have come to be abroad. But during their stay and stay there they created outstanding examples in the field of literature, art, and today their works would be useful to us in Ukraine. This is especially true of one of our countrymen, David’s fellow countrymen, Burluk. He is 125 years old in July of the following year. He himself is a native of the Suman region. He had to leave his homeland in 1920. But as he worked abroad, he created a significant piece, which is more than 5,000 works. He was not only an outstanding artist but also a poet and writer. Today, his grandson lives abroad in Canada, who agrees to give a number of his works to Ukraine, but provided that, for example, a museum is opened on his homeland in Suma. And it's about opening this museum at the same high school that David Burluk was in. The public involved in the study of the creativity of David Burluk has repeatedly asked questions about the opening of such a museum. Sadly, though, neither the current management of Suma nor the Government of Culture of the Suma District State Administration has taken these public appeals into account. As a national deputy, it was the representatives of the David Burluk Foundation who asked me to put the matter before the authorities today. I went to Mr. Lichov's former minister of culture regarding the opening of this museum, but it all ended with a letter. Today, I hope that the newly appointed Culture Minister, Yuri Petrovich Bogicki, will turn to this problem. And we both need to open this museum and mark this date at a state level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u169	Thank you. The word has Popescu. Then there will be Arjevitin, instead of Knyazevitch, who is written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! Masterful colleagues! Yesterday we did not include in the agenda the Special Economic Zone Act “The Euroregion of Bukovina” and the special regime for investment activities in this area. And today, some have begun to speculate about it. The question is: “Is such a law necessary?” Answer: “Yes, necessary”. Second question: “What is the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions?” The faction of the Party of the Regions advocates the adoption of this law and the granting of a special zone to the Chernobyl region because it respects the results of the referendum of December 1, 1991, when the majority of the population of the region took part in the voting and independence of Ukraine. Third moment. What must we do to accept this bill? A working group should be set up to develop a new bill on the establishment of a free economic zone in the Chernobyl region involving experts from the Committee of Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, experts from the Chernobyl District Council and the District Administration, national deputies from the Chernjevic region, taking into account all the objective comments and agreeing on the draft changes with Mineconomy and Minfin in order to receive no problem in the session hall, in fact, and not only to help the smallest region of Ukraine. There's a problem. Why can't we accept the bill that was proposed yesterday? First. There is a basic Ukrainian Act on the General Principles for the Establishment and Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones, under which special economic zones are created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet or the local councils of Ukraine and the local government. [[Article 9]] However, the draft material does not contain adequate information about initiators of the establishment of a free economic zone and the decisions of the relevant local councils and the local government administration on the granting of consent to create an SEZ. In this case, reference should have been made to the results of the referendum on December 1st, 91st, and to the decision of the district council. This was not done. The other one. There is also no package of documents required to create this special free economic zone, foreseen by article six, which includes the technical and economic justification for the purpose of creating it, the volume, the source and the form of financing at each stage of its creation and development, the basis of the pricing regime, the taxation of customs regulations. Third. The adoption of the draft law provides for a reduction of tax revenues to the State budget, so proposals for expenditure to be reduced and proposals for additional revenue to cover expenditure should be added to the bill, as required by part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian budget code. Four. The draft proposes that a bill be put into effect from the time of publication, which is not in line with part three of article 27 of the budget code, since such a bill should be published by August 15 of the relevant planned year. So we suggest we create an appropriate working group and take all the points into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u171	Here comes the Arjevitin. And he will be followed by Marmazov instead of Simonck, who performed instead of Alexeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u172	Stanislav Argevitin, "Our Ukraine". At the request of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, I, the head of the board, have been instructed to make a statement. The Association of Ukrainian Banks is concerned about some of the standards set out in the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007, which destabilize Ukraine’s banking system. In particular, the bill has suspended the establishment of insurance banks in accordance with the laws in force for 2007. Instead, a new order of their creation is proposed, which is contrary to the Constitution and a number of laws in force in Ukraine. In line with the new order in the list of assets by which the bank can create reserves to exclude transactions from securities, which will undoubtedly contribute to halting the development of the Ukrainian stock market. This ignores the existing requirements of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the obligation to set up insurance reserves under commercial bank securities. The same paragraph also provides for a review of the sums of the insurance reserves created by banks over the past 10 years. The Association believes that this creates an unprecedented case in which banks will be obliged to review the sums of their insurance reserves in the last 10 years in accordance with the legislation in force during those periods of time due to changes in the law of 1 January 2007. This is a gross violation of article 58 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which stipulates that laws and other normative acts have no reverse force, except when they soften or invalidate a person’s responsibility. The Association draws the attention of the government and the Supreme Council that the adoption of a new order for the formation of insurance banks will increase the risk of banking activity and will destabilize the banking system as well as the economy as a whole. These changes will result in a decrease in the level of bank capitalization, their reliability, a decrease in the ability to lend banks to the economy, while increasing their value. It should be noted that the Supreme Council’s profile committee has supported the proposal of the Association of Ukrainian Banks and has been submitted to a budget committee that has not yet been counted. The Association of Ukrainian Banks believes that the current system of insurance reserves meets all the requirements. The Association of Ukrainian Banks claims that banking activity is destabilizing when such tax money is adopted. The Association calls on government representatives and Ukrainian national deputies to analyse the adverse effects of such actions on the entire Ukrainian economy and to prevent the formation of insurance reserves from changing with new initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Marmazov has the word. He'll be followed by Arkaleev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! My statement will address the socio-economic situation in the Kirovograd region. Well, there are many problems, and one of them is the poor performance of strategically important enterprises in terms of rental. Actually, renting us is a mess. In Alexandria, 17,000 coal enterprises have been leased to two private commercial entities, such as the “expelerant” GSO, headed by our national deputy, and the “Energy Coal” ZAT under serious investment obligations, well, I will not list them. It's been two years. Coal mining, many of which are generally flooded, equipment is dismantled, railways are cut down, TEC is virtually decommissioned, the settlement of Dimitrovo has run out of heat, wages are not paid since April, huge debts to the Pension Fund, reduced 14,000 jobs, and 29,000 pensioners, who, well, were coal miners, are now out of fuel for the winter. It's a disaster coming! The situation is close to a social explosion: it is now being blocked by the Highlands, highways are being blocked, but there is no explanation. The Ministry of TES, the Ministry of Coal, the Housing Fund, the Ministry of Social Security and the law enforcement authorities are aware of this. But there's no shift. I had to consult with my colleagues, Tsapuk and Turbanov, to contact Deputy Prime Minister Kluev, who, to be said, responded quickly, a serious meeting had been convened, an interdepartmental commission had been set up, decided to finance the immediate heating of the village of Dimitrov and the ten-day ten-day closure of the payroll. Well, everything seems to be fine. It's been over a month, there's no movement in place, nothing. Maybe the Kabmin leaders are listening to my statement. In fact, the Kabmin leaders now have strong people and they make the right decisions, but monitoring decisions is bad. If we keep this up, we can't do anything like this. And, of course, we need to get the renters in order. In the city of Kirovograd, heating plants were also leased to commercial entities. The local power of the hand washed away, now focused on the reelections, and tenants pulled the latest juices from leased facilities. The city is virtually unheated, although the report says it is heating up. In fact, the water is heated so that it does not freeze in the system. I think that we and the Cabinet of Ministers need to urgently adopt a law that prohibits the transfer to commercial entities of strategically important facilities for the lives of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u175	Arkallayev is gone. Well, Honorable Nurullislam Hadjiyovich obviously didn't expect enough time for his speech, so he has a word instead of Voropejev, Jaduh. And then there's Wooden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u176	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, I wanted to say that I am the first call in Parliament and that people think that everyone is sick of this political crack and, including today, the mutual political accusations on this stand. People want active power, effective laws to improve their standard of living. I would like to say that today, in the Hmelni district and in Ukraine as a whole, it is not a simple situation to provide a population with a combined gas that is purchased at a specialized auction. The reasons are: the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1736 of 23 December 2004 has not been implemented, which amends the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 599, according to which paragraph 1 after the words “in auctions” are added: “where the producers of compressed gas claim the full volume of products produced after the completion of the previous special auction in which they participated.” It also violates the rules of retail trade and the provision of services for the provision of compressed carbon dioxide for the needs of the population, according to which retail trade and gas supply services are provided by specialized companies that are authorized by the State to provide gas services, trade patents, operational services, emergency control services, and so forth. In the absence of entrepreneurship subjects, the services I have called do not have the right to do the work mentioned. They should conclude appropriate agreements with the relevant services that are authorized to do so at this time. In the absence of such contracts, therefore, the registration of such business entities for participation in a specialized auction will not take place. And unfortunately, it goes the other way around. These companies are now being registered, and they have nothing to do with this work at all. Hence, it is necessary to immediately bring the matter in order and, according to the folk expression, to separate the grain from the half. On the basis of the foregoing, I am addressing the Minister of Economics, the Head of the Committee of Commerce with a parliamentary appeal, namely: to take steps to comply with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1736, to re-register members of the special auction, and the third, to provide guidance on the extent and direction of implementation of the compressed gas purchased at the auction should be verified not by the district public administrations, but by the district tax administrations. In doing so, they will not hide their taxes. For example, the payment of one implemented balloon -- 21 kilograms -- is one and a half times higher than the sale of 40 liters of gas through the corresponding fillings. And that's why I'd like all of us to think together for the only thing -- for the budget, not for the empty talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u177	The woodcutter is from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. This is the last performance today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u178	Basil Derevljany, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ternopilščina. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! I went out to this rostrum to give a brief answer to the accusations made by the deputy, our colleague from the faction of the Ternopil region, which accused entrepreneurs of BUT in the Ternopil region of all sins. I'd like to say that this deputy, and yet the faction, is going to find out about these massive raids on the greenhouse entrepreneurs that they went out there, they're going to ask them what's going on, because it's coming from this platform that we need to check out this company. Should it really be checked? He's making a parliamentary inquiry, and then he goes to the police and tells the police that there's absolutely no need to do that. With another manager, who runs the ‘Ternopolblspirt’, he releases, does everything he can to remove the leadership of the leaders, the directors of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, who run this business well. This business is one of the best in this field completely in Ukraine. Today, it is also known that members of the City Police, specifically Vasil Mokritsky, the head of the City Department for Combating Crimes, are jointly preparing provocations against members of the City Council from the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. Well, I'd still like to ask. With what programs we go to the polls, because every political party, it says, has claimed, and claims that we will do everything we can to make business go smoothly. So today, I'm seeing from the Party of Regions and the MP from Ternopolska who's in, in the area, it's not doing that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u179	Thank you. He asked for Valentin Zubov's replica. I advise him not to make a line, but I do, as he insists. Well, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u180	Dear Alexanderovich, colleague of Boki's in his statement, recalled that I had left the Socialist Party in due course. And that's true. It's just that it's not true that he hinted at some financial conditions. In doing so, he forgot to say that your active supporter, Nina Markovsky, acting Deputy Sas, acting Deputy Kirilczuk, and so on, had left the Socialist Party faction with me. But that's not what I'd like to say right now. Alexander Alexandrovich, everything I said in my statement has grounds. In your time, you gave a brilliant definition to the political regime of Kuchma, which you called the regime a gang-cracy regime, i.e. a merger of political power with open gang capital. And that's why I don't understand, I'm very sorry that you, given the nature of the problem, started working in that group of deputies where 60 to 70 percent of the high-profile supporters of the Kuchma regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-03-m0.u181	Valentin Aleksandrovitch, I'm not at random because you're addressing me, I'm not at random answering your question, and I wouldn't recommend that you speak because Nina Markovska was not leaving the faction, and she quit her office when the cadence ended. And Sass and Kirilczuk, they're sitting next to you today, as you've noticed, I'm never reproaching you on this subject, they came out of a faction that was in opposition and they went into a faction that worked in the Kuchma regime on exactly the same terms, and all of you left in three. That is why I would not like to continue the conversation on this subject, but let us also take into account one other situation that, in political terms, takes into account the form of organisation of work and the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions of the same political powers. Thank you. The session is adjourned today. The next meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on November 14th, and it will be the government's Day of Action on State Authorities, Local Self-Government in the Development of Physical Culture and Sports, and the Development of Coal.
