ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u1	Honorable members of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! It's July 1st. Sorry, August 1st, 8th month of the year. I'm asking you to register with the deputies, get ready to register. Please. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:22]] Cards record 291 deputies present. The morning session is open. I would like to welcome, on your behalf, the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, to wish him good and success in all his beginnings. [[Applause]] Not in this regard, but at the suggestion of two factions — socialists and communists — there is a break for half an hour. And considering that previous consultations are now being held before the Consolidating Document is signed with the President of Ukraine, let's continue the sessions around. Break to 10.45. Thank you. Break's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our sessions. According to Rule 25 of the Rules, Tuesday is 30 minutes for statements from authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please, who wants to speak from the faction? Either raise your hands or sign up, let's write it down. Matthew, please, the Communist faction. Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u3	Respected colleagues, Ukraine, because of its geostrategic situation, have found themselves in a dangerous zone of confrontation among the main geopolitical competitors of Russia, the United States. Under the prevailing circumstances, the right choice of foreign policy as a guarantee of the country's security, its sovereignty and independence is essential. Both the parliamentary elections and the numerous public opinion studies, especially recent developments relating to the response of the population to the landing, without the consent of the Supreme Council, the American military, military technology in the Crimea, have shown that the people of Ukraine in the vast majority reject a unilateral course of submission to domestic, foreign policy, the U.S. dictatorship to involve our country in NATO. And I don't think it's a coincidence that out of the 45 constituencies of the electoral process in the last elections, only two Kostenko, Plush, PORA and PRPs have written in their programmes the topics of joining NATO. Only 3.3% of voters voted for them. Many parties covered this topic, including Our Ukraine, Block Timoshenko, as well as Presidential candidate Yushchenko. At the same time, about half of those who participated in the elections voted in favour of the lists of parties and blocs that opposed Ukraine's membership in NATO for its off-block neutral status. However, the course of our country's destructive nature to involve it in NATO has become the imperative idea of President Yushchenko. Everyone has seen how he has acted on this issue at the so-called round table, not taking into account the country's interests, not that the issue of NATO is destabilizing our society, but that the level of support for the Alliance's membership does not exceed 15 per cent and diminishes every year, Yushchenko and his team are dragging Ukraine into NATO, and they are unwarrantedly supporting U.S. policies. It is now quite clear: this position is well thought out and is frankly anti-Russian. In the further prison of the MIDA of 18 July this year, where the mythical benefits of membership in the alliance are praised for all systems, paragraph 16: “Entering NATO will mean the final exit of Ukraine from the influence of Russia and the elimination of the possibility of its restoration in the future”. From the blue dream of joining NATO. I don't think that the warring Russians at MlD, in Minobron, were aware that they were turning Ukraine into an unfriendly and even hostile to eternity, according to Yushchenko, Russia's strategic partner. Sociological research has shown that 57 per cent of Western citizens and 58 per cent in the eastern part of the country are in favour of ensuring that Ukraine does not join any military alliances, but cooperates with them where it meets our national interests, maintains friendly relations with both the European Union and with Russia. It is this policy that we believe is best in the interests of Ukraine. Our party, the Communist faction of the Supreme Council, has consistently advocated the maintenance of the non-block neutral status, the intention to confirm the status guaranteed by the United Nations, OSCE and other international organizations by the great Powers. In this, we believe, is the right guarantee of our security and the realization of the goals that exist in view of the talk of European integration. The Supreme Council has been introduced, including the members of our faction Simonenko, Alexei's respective drafts. We ask them to consider and support them urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u4	Thank you. Onichuku Mikola Vasilovich of "Our Ukraine", followed by Semenyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u5	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. In recent times, unfortunately, we have heard calls from more or less well-known politicians, as well as from individual representatives of local self-government bodies, whose contents can be understood in such a way that they call on themselves, or outside the constitutional bodies, to evaluate actions, acts and decisions of public authorities. We consider it necessary to point out that this is a very dangerous trend that can destroy the foundations of the state's legal system and create a situation that is essentially a legal collapse. Since the rule of law in the State is built solely on the recognition of the right and obligation of the constitutional authorities and the office axes, as provided for in article 19 of the Constitution to act exclusively within the manner and order defined by law. This means that no one, and I stress that, and the faction “Our Ukraine” in particular stresses this, has no right to recognize the constitutional or constitutional act, except the Constitutional Court. No one can recognize legal acts, omissions, or decisions other than a court of general jurisdiction within its jurisdiction. If we get into another way of understanding the state's legal relationship, it means that criminal criminals are going to give a self-assessment of the nature of their crime, or the right to commit a crime, and in particular to question the criminal law that has to be applied to them. In this context, we stress again, once again, that the only way to resolve political conflicts is either political compromise between politicians, or appeal to the Constitutional Court, as the only body of constitutional jurisdiction that can only interpret laws, or declare acts of law unconstitutional. In this regard, we are informed that our faction, as envisaged, by a decision of the Conciliation Council, has made appropriate proposals to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the possible election of the Supreme Council of Judges of the Constitutional Court. These suggestions are considered in the Head. We expect that the right of the Head of the Supreme Council to make appropriate submissions will soon be implemented by the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, and we call upon our colleagues who work in all parliamentary factions to do so. We are absolutely convinced that the existence of the Constitutional Court is full, that the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court who have been appointed by the President or elected by the Assembly of Judges is the only possible way for the civilized development of those political or legal conflicts that occur in the State, and thus all the political factions, particularly those represented in Parliament to the same extent, I stress, are interested in the existence of such, and the effective functioning of such a constitutional body as the Constitutional Court. Even the current events in Parliament have shown that, in one case, the initiative to interpret the laws in question belongs to the anti-crisis coalition, otherwise, for example, to factions in opposition. So the main political signal that we would like to give to our fellow parliamentarians today is that we need to be aware of the need for the full functioning of the legal Ukrainian system without the Constitutional Court and which is truly impressed. So we hope that all factions will be submitted to the Head of the Supreme Court as soon as possible, and if we succeed this week, if not, we will soon complete the formation of this important constitutional body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u6	Thank you. Yes. I would like to inform you immediately that from “Our Ukraine”, from “Julia Tymoshenko” the other political factions in Parliament have already received a sufficient number of candidates or proposals for the nomination of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And I made a proposal at the Conciliation Council yesterday not to collect extra 114 signatures for each candidate. I am prepared to put forward all these nominations for consideration by the Supreme Council on the basis of my signature, which is permitted by the Rules and the Constitution. I think it will be better, and we can objectively consider all these candidates and choose the best in the Constitutional Court. Valentina Seminouk will be followed by a representative from the Yulia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u7	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected journalists. For the first time, Ukraine saw a dialogue of politicians at the round table held at the Presidential Administration. And it's right that our people can see the statements of each of the political party representatives, the right to stand up for the programming principles with which they went to the political party elections. And that tells us about the openness of society, the openness of dialogue. And if even representatives of different political parties have any appropriate warnings or disagreements in the programs, they can combine their intentions and their goals, which they gave to the electorate on the basis of only one: dialogue. I think that this example of creating an appropriate work and a parliament, and a coalition will be the next step in the work of executive bodies, particularly the Cabinet of Ministers. The ability to listen to each other's politicians, the ability to listen and find a common language, is the main victory of all society today, and you and I together. I wanted such a dialogue to be transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers. And when the Cabinet of Ministers from different parties is formed, such a dialogue should be open. And to put an end to the disadvantages that we have and have heard today, even by answering this question from this rostrum by the finance minister of Ukraine. I especially went out to this rostrum today with great pain, because the State Property Fund is actually paralyzed today. Because if you listen to Mr. Pinzenik's answer from the rostrum that the State Property Fund wants to take 30% of the Special Fund to spend some money, I understand one thing that Mr. Pinzenik probably never read the Budget Code, the 2007 budget and the State and Municipal Property Rental Act. That's why I want to make my statement in the form of a parliamentary request and present the standards of Ukrainian legislation, particularly the Budget Code, which clearly states what the Special Fund of State Property is. It's a state fund, it's part of the 2007 budget. The cost of privatization is on this account. And according to article 21, paragraph 21, one percent goes to a privatization program. Where does this cost go? First, environmental audits are needed to prepare the object for privatization, which means that it is necessary to announce it in the paper, to hold a competition, to hire an environmental firm that conducts environmental audits. The State Property Fund of this Special Fund will pay the money, and after privatization, the money will be compensated. A similar scheme is needed for pretentious work. In accordance with Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state property, the State Property Fund for failure to fulfil its investment obligations is brought to justice if such an investor who has come and does not perform these tasks is brought to justice. Today, the State Property Fund has filed 217 lawsuits. But the main thing is, paradoxically, we can't even pay off the shipment because the Special Fund's funds aren't being disbursed. This is a violation not only of the 2007 budget, but of the Ministry of Finance's own orders, because until now the State Property Fund has no budget passport that is not signed by the Ministry of Finance. The same is true of blocking the work of the State Property Fund in part of the fact that we cannot do work today both after privatization and on lease, both by pretentious work, and by implementing the law on environmental auditing, and by carrying out other legislative acts. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I want this request and all the normative documents to be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, and to Yuri Ivanovich I ask you to instruct Mr. Pinzenik: study the budget code, the Budget Act 2007. And let him study these documents to know that there must be a dictatorship in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u8	Thank you. But first the 2006 budget, Valentina Petrovna, then the 7th. All right, who's gonna do the gig? Are you authorized from? Please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u9	Dear voters, for a few days, the country lives in anticipation of a summary document called the National Round Table, the Universal National Connection. The Yulia Timoshenko faction also supports both hands a position on reconciliation and reunification. We went to Parliament for that. At the same time, we warn the President that the round table and the Universal will not be extended to join the communists, oligarchs and traitors and to introduce Yanukovic as Prime Minister of Ukraine. I would also like to mention another important problem that concerns voters. At a time when representatives of the so-called “Anti-Cristian Coalition” are artificially debating the issue of Russian language, NATO, others, indeed, in Ukraine have problems that need their immediate solution. In particular, it eliminates the benefits of Ukrainian national deputies. That's why, yesterday, Julia Timoshenko, leader of our faction, presented a bill on the elimination of these benefits. I think the citizens of Ukraine will be interested to know how much is planned to finance the parliamentary benefits in order to carry them out. In particular, for material aid, for the rehabilitation of MPs, it's when they go on vacation that they get paid two average wages. This takes 16.5 million dollars a year. The second, for material aid, or for the preservation of wages for the people’s deputies, after the end of their term of office, requires 25 million 800,000 dollars. The deputy receives 12 month’s salary for material assistance when he retires. For this year, 16 million 714 thousand dollars is required. The cost, or free travel of national deputies in Ukraine, is estimated at 4 and a half million dollars. To financially support the sanatorium complex of the Supreme Council, this deputy goes on vacation, gets 30,000 dollars, and then 24 days can get free rest. Yeah, well, there's a total of 48 million 748 thousand dollars, of which almost 5 million are from the State Budget. To maintain the Autobase of the Supreme Council, 23 million 400,000 dollars are placed in the budget so that MPs can drive when they need to. On the lease of a plane to the head of the Supreme Council in Ukraine, 2 million dollars are requested by the Supreme Council. San Sanic, why do you need $2 million? In business class and on flights, not 2 million. The cost of public speaking on radio, television, and the press requires 29 million dollars. In order to compensate for the expenses associated with the execution of their credentials, 94 million dollars are required. Ten million bracelets are needed to accommodate the people’s deputies in the hotels. The cost of housing is 20 million this year to build housing, which is then privatized by national deputies and new deputies come, rebuild housing and reprivatize. And so to infinity. For the following periods, another 33 million dollars are requested. An additional 10 million dollars are requested for housing expenses for members of the public. And that's what the Supreme Council is asking for this year's 606 million dollars for the following year, 2007, 834 million dollars. The total amount needed to implement all the benefits provided to members of the People's Deputies Act is 238 million. A bracelet, plus 95, is designed to compensate for expenses associated with the execution of parliamentary powers. I hope that representatives of the so-called anti-crisis coalition, instead of considering two issues a day here, the ratification of international agreements, will support the draft Law on the Elimination of Deputies by our faction. And that's how they thank people for being able to sit here and work. There's nothing to worry about foreclosures, real questions, eliminate your benefits, or "know-how" and pay the first vacations, the electorate has to know the name of the communists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u10	I'm asking you to calm down, but a man seeks justice that you're surprised. I just want to say in order of information about this, because my last name has been mentioned, and I'm asking for your attention. Parliamentary support costs for five years remain constant, up to half a percent of Ukraine’s budget. Various figures are called, above all, simply because the price of money varies. And the speaker just got his vacations, and I don't call the amount, and I want you to know, why he needs a phone for himself, a cell phone number that costs a lot of money, I want to say. And it's only placed in the heads of the committees and the heads of the special control committee. So I understand that the man was trying to be in Parliament because he doesn't want all the benefits, as you understand, but he'll get them in front of others. So let's just keep an eye on it. We're going to look at the cost, we're going to look at all of these questions. I want to say one more thing, the increase in parliamentary support costs has increased, first of all, because last year, during this period, more faithfully, in June, the Prime Minister signed a decree on a sharp increase in salaries for officials of all levels, and deputies fall under this category. And that's why, last year, under the influence of factions and the Conciliation Council, the head of Parliament, Vladimir Litwin, has decided that we remain on the previous pay grid. And then the legislators and recommendations from the Constitutional Court, in view of the fact that this violates the relevant rules and regulations of the Constitution, restored the payment that was duly imposed. Therefore, those seeking such statements today have the basic right to use the rostrum for appropriate political dividends, apparently. If they get them, let them continue to do so. But I think we need to sit and work really hard on the laws that Ukraine needs today. From the Party of the Regions speaks the Kings, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I am speaking from the faction of the regions about which is certainly very important – this is the situation in the Dnepropetrov region. You know, it's been a fifth month since Dnepropetrovsk could not elect a president of the district council. There have already been four sessions, four attempts to elect the President of the Regional Council, but the current leadership of the Regional Council, thanks to the head of the Regional Commission, has led to permanent breakdowns. You remember that at one of the sessions on 2 June, members of the regional council were beaten and tried to exercise their right to come and vote for the person for whom they wanted to vote. On this Friday, members of the Regional Council met and tried to hold a session of the Regional Council. For deliberate reasons, the Kirov Court made a definition that prohibited the deputies from holding the election of the President of the Regional Council. The Chairman of the Regional Commission did not appear to the deputies, the deputies were not allowed into the sessional hall of the Regional Council. Thus today, the Dnepropetrov region cannot exercise its right, they have gone to elections and the district council is not working. Members of the Regional Council therefore addressed the members of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Moroz, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzko. I'm authorized to read that address. Appeal from the Deputies of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council of the Fifth Congress. We, members of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council of the Fifth Party of the Regions, the Company of Ukraine, other political forces, which make up the majority of the Regional Council, express our deep outrage and strong protest over the situation surrounding the establishment of the leadership of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council. Having embarked on the path of gross violation of laws and regulations, constant provocations and blackmail, involving courts and power structures in unworthy political arenas, the previous leadership of the district council in the face of Nikolai Antonović Schwetz and his team, assisted by the Chairman of the Galka Regional Electoral Commission, has led the political situation in the region to all truths and injustices by trying to keep itself in power. Instead of seeking dialogue and consensus, political compromises are emerging and new causes for disrupting the first organizational session of the Dnepropetrov Regional Council. The new leadership and working bodies of the Regional Council are not elected artificially and maliciously. During the past four months, the session of the Regional Council has been suspended four times and the deputies have been subjected to pressure and beating. All of this takes place against the backdrop of the difficult but urgently needed compromise in the country between the President, the Parliament, other branches of power and the political forces. In this difficult situation, the conduct and position of Nikolai Antonović Schwetz and his immediate environment are nothing more than an urgent challenge to public opinion, disregard and abuse of democratic norms and procedures. We state that, in the current situation, all responsibility for the state of affairs in the field, including in the preparation for the winter, will be vested in the former leadership of the Regional Council. We demand immediate intervention by the authorities and law enforcement agencies. We are deeply convinced that law and justice will finally prevail and that the will of the electorate of the region will be realized for the sake of stability and sustainable development of Dnipropetrovska for Ukraine. 61 members of the 100 members of the Regional Council signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u12	A draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road is under consideration, reports the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, King Seminovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u13	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the proposed act provides for Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road, which is an important international legal instrument. The Convention lays down conditions for damages caused by loss or damage to cargo, provides for the resolution of claims and lawsuits arising from disputes, determines the time limit for the filing of lawsuits, the establishment of liability, or the release from liability of the carrier. The document contains a regulation on successive transfers by several carriers, dealing with the insolvency of carriers responsible for damage or loss of cargo. The adoption of the proposed Ukrainian Law requires an increase in the volume of international road transport by national carriers, a reduction in transport payments, an increase in foreign exchange revenues, an increase in Ukraine's access to international requirements and standards. Adherence to the Convention does not require interested States to pay introductory and annual contributions. At the same time, accession to the Convention will give Ukraine a number of other advantages: it will become an important step in the development of Ukraine as a transit state; it will contribute to the development of trade and the strengthening of relations with the European States; it will facilitate the gradual liberalisation of the conditions of transport in international transport markets for national carriers, as well as the expansion and deepening of Ukraine's international cooperation in general; and the integration of the national transport complex into the European and world transport systems; it will help reduce delivery times at destination. The Convention extends to a wide range of countries, including the member countries of the European Union, the member countries of the European Economic Commission, the post-Radians countries. The draft law is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the State Border Service, the State Customs Service, the Ukrainian Union of Industrial Entrepreneurs and approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications. Given the importance of these issues, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Ukrainian law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u14	Thank you, Simeonovich. Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign in. Yeah, let's do five minutes. Lukyanenko Levko You're looking for a microphone under the flag.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u16	Please, Easy Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u17	Just now, Mr. Frost, commenting on my statement, stated that it was as if the Constitutional Court were assessing the fact that the deputies had been paid. It's from.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u18	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleague Lazko, I remind you that any national MP has the right to speak only on the matter from which he was given his word. If you have no questions, please remain silent. Matthew. And in the “Variance, ” you'll say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u19	Thank you. Semen Semenovich, it is clear that the adoption of this draft law is, indeed, important because it creates conditions for the integration of our national transport system in Europe as well as the world system. This is understandable, and the adoption of this bill also provides for Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road. But the question is: The convention itself was held on May 19, 1956, and Ukraine since 1991 could have made a legal act that would lead us to those who support this international convention. Why in the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Valentin Grigorovich! Your question is very important. Ukraine has joined 50 international conventions and treaties, European conventions and treaties, but there are 120 conventions and agreements. We've got 15 more treaties and conventions going on in the country right now, and we're gradually doing it. We've already joined 50, but as far as we're concerned, we join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as far as the internal procedure is concerned, and by the importance of this convention, we join 5-10 conventions each year. So somewhere, maybe there are our bureaucratic obstacles, but we need to move to Europe, we need to join. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u21	Please, Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u22	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Simeon Semenovich! I certainly support this convention itself, the need for its ratification, but this is the question: our country signed this convention and left the right not to apply the 47th article, which deals with the establishment of dispute mechanisms for the transfer of parties to the UN International Court of Justice. Please tell me, and the issue of dispute resolution is very important. What is the procedure that is envisaged to resolve disputes between the two parties if there are agreements on international transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u23	Thank you. With each country in Europe, we have bilateral agreements on international transport. But this is a very important question, and we are behind us, our country leaves the right to join the 47th article at any time. At any time when we want to be in our country, we can join it. But today, the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Service of the President’s Office feel that today we need to delay the accession to this article, because there is a matter of very large court sanctions. We are not ready today, and we believe that this will be gradual, perhaps in a year or two, but there are very large disputes, and it is premature for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u24	Yes, thank you, Semen Semenovich, sit down, please. Have a seat, please. From the committee, the committee reports to the head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Janukovic Viktor Viktorovich. Please, Victor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this bill provides for Ukraine's accession to the aforementioned convention, which was held on 19 May 1956, which is an international legal and legal instrument regulating the legal relationship between the shipper and the consignee in international road haulage. The convention lays down conditions for the recovery of damage caused by loss or damage to cargo, provides for the resolution of claims and lawsuits, establishes liability, or the release of the carrier from liability, and examines cases of disputes that are settled in the courts. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion at the meeting on July 24, 2006, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine agree to join the convention with a warning in accordance with article 48, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Convention does not consider itself bound by article 47 of this convention. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u26	Will there be questions? You don't? None. Have a seat. Yes, please, who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? I think it's all there, dear colleagues, clearly, the only thing that needs to be taken into account is the Ministry's wishes so that, in fact, 50 years don't wait for ratification. I am voting on the adoption of the Act concerning Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road, registration number 0012. Please vote. [[11:43:12]] For 288 The law is passed. Convention ratified. We turn to the question of re-examination with the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on architectural activity, the President's proposal of March 15, this year, registration number 0832. He will report to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Pavel Stepanovich Kačur. Get Polack ready from the committee. Please, Pavel Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u27	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, on February 22, 2006, the Supreme Council voted in favour of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Architectural Activities”. This document is designed to further improve the legal and regulatory base of Ukraine, in the area of construction and architecture, to bring it into line with better world patterns, to create favourable conditions for investment in building, simplifying and improving arbitrary procedures, and to create an aesthetically meaningful and functional environment. At the same time, in his proposals, the President of Ukraine draws attention to two rules of the law that have been passed that do not allow the bill to be signed as a law. First, the first sentence refers to part two, chapter one. This part is amended by the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. The bill makes it so simple to make changes, and after the words “The Academy of Arts of Ukraine”, add the words “The Academy of Architecture of Ukraine”. At the same time, if you take the 15th article to which changes are made, it means that a new government authority based on state ownership is being created. The cost of ensuring the activities of the academy is determined annually in the State Budget, and at the same time this organization is self-sufficient, which itself determines the subject of research, the solution of scientific and economic, human and organizational issues. The President of Ukraine points out that by this standard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to establish a state scientific organization, which is the exercise of authority over the administration of public property objects, which under the Constitution of Ukraine belong to the exclusive competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s constitutional jurisdiction is subject to the definition of a legal property regime, part one, paragraph 7, article 92, to the approval of a list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the definition of legal principles, the removal of objects, and the right to private property. Taking into account the above, as well as the fact that the Basic Law of Ukraine empowers the Supreme Council of Ukraine is limited by the fact that the provisions of the Act, which is under consideration, are not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The second norm pointed out by the President of Ukraine is that the Law, which came to be signed, provides for the right of chief architects and other officials of specially authorized city and architecture to carry out creative activities related to the design of architectural objects that are designed for the construction of these persons in the territory of activity. This is sub-paragraph 11(b) of section 1 of the First Law. In doing so, the current Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities removes the situation by which architectural decisions made by these officials transform agreement with the higher-level construction and architecture bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, there are members of the Chamber of Practices who have repeatedly agreed on projects in construction and who understand that if this rule is left in the Law, where is faster, and where is later, but at the level of the territorial authorities, there will be some design workshops that will be led by the chief architects of one or another body. So all other competition is just going to be eliminated, not to mention that when I design and approve for myself, obviously there's a lot of questions about transparency in making these decisions. So the President of Ukraine suggests that this article should be presented in a different edition, and you are asked where, if the architects of the corresponding level are the authors of the projects, the approval of such projects is subject to a higher level body. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support these proposals by the President and with the proposals, the Law will really only win in practical application. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign in. Please, five minutes. Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u29	Dear Paul Stepanovich! I'd like to go back. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of the Regions, in part 5 of article 14, which refers to the possibility of architects participating in the design of objects. Say, please, “the concept of power distribution and conflict of interest” is not violated in this article, when we allow in principle architects to participate, who are officials and approve these projects, to participate in the creative process? If you were to point out that there is danger, and in fact, there are a lot of cases where architects themselves turn into a leading organization, or if they have a commercial structure that prepares projects, and they benefit accordingly. Maybe even remove the possibility of doing this for architects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. In fact, this is what the President of Ukraine is all about. Of course it's possible, but we're out of the practice of being chief architects. and this law also provides for commitments, and architects are approved, that is, active people who are able and willing to design by their professional means. The point is that if he was involved in the design, he himself did not agree with the bill. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. I mean, you know, in this way, the proposal, in general, to prohibit them from designing, it's going to be a certain limitation of their rights, it's usually what we want to see in the position of architects of those people who, first of all, practice themselves, and second of all, are actually active architects, and that would be a restriction on rights if they weren't allowed. The president suggests that if you do design, your projects can be approved by an appropriate higher-level body.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u31	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Paul Stepanovich! Doesn't it seem to you that, in any case, what is your proposal, that the committee's proposal, will lead to an additional train? If there's an additional body and a question of additional agreement, if there's an old system left that was, when the architect works on his own in a public body, and he's taking part in the development of the projects. Then it also creates an additional mechanism, so it can also be called “the hidden fee”. Doesn't it seem to you that when these bills are being drafted, it would be better to go through the system, in general, to simplify the procedure. In order to obtain a permit today, in general, a person who wants to start building something has very big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u33	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, for asking. You've raised the right question about, in general, simplifying the design process and even this bill is part of the simplification. Another bill that you're going to consider is to make changes to individual bills. He's actually doing a little bit more simplification. But I'm now paying attention to this problem that there is. You don't have to create other organs, they already are. The point is that this body in which the architect works does not approve the project itself. Not to create new organs, it's just the authority of who can approve the bill, which. No, it's not an extra signature. It's just that this project isn't going to approve the body where the architect works.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u34	Please, Alexy Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u35	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Mutz Orest Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u36	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilla, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Minister, in March of this year, just a few days before the House Building Council elections in Ternopol, you gave the Ternopil region an example at the pace of housing construction, you gave an interesting figure. According to your data, the average cost per meter of square dwelling in Ternopol is $2,725, about $500. But actually in the Ternopil real estate market, one raw meter square is worth up to a thousand dollars. Why do the Ternopolians pay so much for every meter of housing? Why don't you stand up to the Mob in Ternopol? So Derzkomreserve agreed that the owner of Ternopol’s “Builder ” company voluntarily seized an acre [1.5 ha] of land belonging to the Ternopol village council. What you're doing is you're rewarding the builder with the "Leader of Construction and Architecture 2005". On the eve of the election, there was a reward.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u37	Please, Pavel Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u38	Thank you. Although this question does not apply to the bill that is being reported, I will still answer it essentially. First. In fact, at the meeting, I brought data and I was ready to present to the people's deputies at the pace of construction, and we made these calculations, in comparison to the better years that it was building, or some other area in general, in its history. And the data that was given in Ternopolska correspond to reality. The other one. The Ministry of Construction is developing indicative prices in the construction market. What does that mean? In the construction of housing at the expense of the budget, I would like to stress that both the national deputies and the radio listeners who are listening to us today, in the construction of housing at the expense of the budget, these indicative prices are mandatory. For private forgets, this is really an indicative price. It is calculated according to the cost of housing in one region or another. Of course, there's a difference between price and market price, and it's only one thing, demand is not satisfied today. We need to expand housing and at the same time balance demand and supply and bring the price that exists on the market, I can't even call it market price, because it's not market price, bringing it into line with what's actually going to dictate market relations. And this has to start with the introduction of transparent schemes, the removal of land, this has to be simplified by what Ivan Vasilovitch was doing to agree on the documentation. And all of these proposals in the bill that I've been calling have already been submitted to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u39	Thank you. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, let's consult. We should have a break in five minutes, but since we started with you later than 10:00, I suggest that we take a look at the questions that we have today and then define ourselves. No objections? Thank you for your support. For the co-report, I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Polachenko Vladimir Avramovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting considered this law and unanimously offered my colleagues support. The minister of construction reported on the content of the comments. I'd like to draw your attention from the committee. Our urban legislation today has significant flaws, and the bill makes the first real attempts to manage certain countermeasures and gaps in the existing legislative framework. Thus, for the first time at the legislative level, the meaning of the concept of “project reconciliation”, “expertise”, “builder”, “engineering activity” is defined. The practitioners, and I've talked to my colleagues, with most of them today, have started to build more, just like architects and designers, understand what this is all about, because unfortunately they've constantly overcome in their own manufacturing and creative activities the various obstacles associated with biased interpretation of norms and requirements. From now on, for example, it is clear that the agreement of the project is only a procedure for establishing the appropriateness of project decisions to the design output. Thus, after the project has been completed, neither firefighter nor expert in the other field will be able to impose their new requirements. Second, the committee believes that the important norm of the new bill is to determine the conditions for connecting the proposed object to the power grids. The question was asked. I would like to say to you and quote: “The location of the building’s engineering networks to the motorway or other engineering networks is within the boundaries of the land area or, according to the customer, within the territory of this land area.” Everyone knows who was building, every "energy", Kyivenergo gave 5 to 6 kilometers, and that was so, on his conscience. Even that word is not “conscience” but rather the official and his corrupt addiction. Today, this law states that putting the main or other engineering networks within the boundaries of the construction site, as well as increasing their capacity, are carried out by the owners of these networks. Kiyevenergo wants to develop his systems, be good, bring him to this land area, and then get yourself a new network. And if we, builders or investors, have another scheme, another estimate is counted against the city. Thus, the real cost of the builder becomes obvious and transparent. It is also important that the builder now has no problem with the transmission of newly built engineering networks. It was a paradox when we built multi-mile networks, and then the owners didn't accept them. Third, it is considered to be a very important norm in which the output for the design of an object of architecture is maintained for at least two years, or until the construction of the object is completed if it is started during the period of operation of the output data, but not more than five years. In view of the complexity of the reconciliation of project decisions, the five - year standard for most objects is optimal. Fourth, the new bill also contains other extremely important and relevant innovations that dictate time and that will undoubtedly enhance fair competition in the market, both projects and construction. Fifthly, the bill substantially enhances the qualifications of performers, authors, and creative groups, requires the availability of appropriate licences, and confirms their professional ability. The Committee on Construction, Construction, and Architecture asks the National Deputies to support the development of the project. It is the first of many necessary legislative acts to improve and modernize Ukraine’s legislation on construction, architecture, and construction. I want to tell you that the committee has decided to open a committee site, a permanent work with the building room, and a builder's association, and so will other experts' proposals, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u41	Thank you, Volodymyr Avrumovich. Any questions? None. Sit down. Is it? Sign up. Sulkovsky has not been heard. Press the buttons, please, for 3 minutes. Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u42	Freeman, faction of the Regions. Please pass the word to Petros.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u43	Please, Petrosov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u44	Party of regions, Petrov. Dear Vladimir Avrumovic, tell us how the technical conditions are issued.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u45	Everyone seems to know, unfortunately, but that's the law we're trying to bring them into line. Now the official won't want to publish Kievenergo, I'll say Kievenergo, or Vodokanal multi-kilometres, because we're going to have to do it ourselves, and if we do it, then we're going to have to pay our own money. That's why I think a lot of appetites are going to be reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u46	Please, infantry Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u47	Dear Vladimir Avrumovich, please tell me, as possible, what is happening today is being done in Kiev, in the old part of the building is being built modern, but I would say not in the architectural expression, the building. By the way, I am outraged by the Lviv administration, which made a decision and built a sarcophagus at the site of the monument Mickevich. Why is this done? Either the authorities are pushing or the money is pushing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I think what the minister said about the fact that a full law on architectural activity is now being prepared. And I was, frankly, supported on the committee about the need to prepare a law in general, the City Code. We've tried in Kiev, and as head of the architecture commission, I've tried to do what I need to do in order to do the zoning. For example, no one will have the thought of building a building higher than the Senate in Washington. This law must be the conscience of the architect. Unfortunately, it was. The new mayor has now decided that, on the ban in general, I'm going to talk about Kiev, the ban on building in the central part of the city, that's right. I think it should be accepted in other cities, but he hears here and the minister, he takes an active position with the ministry. I think the following laws will be zoning the territory. For example, why do this? There's a zone, there's an area, there's a central part of the city, there's 5 floors, there's a little further down, there's 8 floors, and there's no higher. And even the idea should not be to have 25 floors. But today we have, as the classic says: “We have what we have.” And today this law is a little bit like that, because you have to take the license and you have it in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u49	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u50	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Vladimir Avrumovic, you are now a national deputy of Ukraine, and you have a wonderful opportunity to establish effective public control over what is happening in the area of construction. I would like to remind you that this bill has been adopted in this vocation and that it is intended to organize the building by providing strict, inescapable architectural control, which is particularly relevant in cities of history and or a complex landscape, as already mentioned here by the distinguished colleague of Pehota. I can't understand, give me an answer, because the minister was speaking and you're talking about some kind of competition. If we adopt this law without changing the President, there will be no competition. Competition between what: between architect and contractor, between architects different? What are you talking about? Isn't it going to happen that instead of wanting to turn this law, that is, to maintain a strict legal order, we will once again be completely irresponsible for who, where, where it builds and who, where it glues, if there is no architectural control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u51	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, thank you. I think that what is said in this law today, as in every law, is impossible. But I'm sure that I think the Popescu MP has been asked the question of whether he has the right or whether he is the chief architect or his deputy, to participate in the creative process? He probably does, because he's an expert. But what the law provides is that he has no right to look at the level where he is in office, but he will be occupied by a higher institution, believe me, I know this, not so respect the chief architects, "respect" not even that word, but counted with his opinion. And so if he's going to be the author of the project and he's going to be, knowing that he's going to defend himself in a higher institution, and more importantly, there's also public hearings in this project, and we're now preparing the Public Hearing Act, because everyone's talking about public hearings, and frankly, there's no public hearing procedures. So I'm sure, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, that's not going to happen, because tenders are already being conducted and very strict. In Kiev, when we started building housing for 15 years at the expense of the population, except for Kyivmishkbud, no one was. It was a nightmare at all, there were trusts, and when we went out with these proposals, no one believed us, and no one believed me at first, even my friends. Today, 300 organizations work in Kiev. And this is what the following law and session of your calling has adopted, and we're going to suggest that the Earth Code needs to be amended about, if the organization is a participant in the investment process, please show as a woman to a man, or a man to a woman, when you are committed to each other, what are you worth? [[then “Elitis” will not be]] Show me your credit history, show me your investment history, and show me that you built up before that. I was told by the MP of the Mhitarians, and he's building in Dubai right now. First year you're building two floors, three years you're building three floors, and once you've shown who you are, you're worth it, then please build high-rise houses, and we've got an "Elita" that nobody knows. I don't mean to offend the Donans, but I have to ask you, there were Moscows, this social initiative, unfortunately, about a thousand-and-a-half warmed up before in Moscow. Show me what you're worth? Then everyone will know, you can build, you can invest, and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u52	Yes, Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! It is a pleasure today that professionals have finally come, people who are deserving, who have done a great deal in their lives to build Ukraine, especially the capital. And that's why I think today, as national MPs, we should have the slightest doubt about supporting this bill. Because in the rostrum today, not only does the national report, but finally the professional man who earned the Hero of Ukraine, the head of the holding company Kyivmishkbud Vladimir Avumovich Polachenko, is indeed a person with a capital letter who wants to remove all the obstacles that prevent construction and construction in this field. So I think we have one thing today, and I call on everyone and my colleagues to support this bill, and I think it's only for the benefit of Ukraine and the builders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Sit down, Vladimir Avrumovich. We'll vote. Dear colleagues, this is the president's proposal, there's no discussion, we'll vote on the amendments. All of it? If there is no objection, dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we must vote on every proposal made by the President. Since the profile committee supported all the president’s proposals, it agrees with them. Since you have no objection to a minor violation of the Rules, then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act "On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine", but it will now be called "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities" in relation to the President's proposals." Registration No. 0832. Please vote. [[12:10:46]] For 309 The law is passed. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I inform you that there is absolutely no reason for the President not to sign this Law right now, because we have accepted it by 309 votes, that is, he is obliged to sign it already. And what's more, we've taken into account all of his proposals. A draft decree is being considered on the 100th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a socio-political actor, a staunch wrestler for Ukraine's independence, a winner of the National Prize for Ukraine's name, Taras Shevchenk Ivan Bagrian. Registration No. 1184. Report by the Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear radio listeners! Dear readers of John the Baptist! I'm reporting the position of our committee, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which represents all the political forces available in our Ukrainian Parliament. And I want to tell you that our committee has been approached by a group of famous Ukrainian scholars, academics: this is Mikola Julinsky, this is John Juba, this is Vitaly Donczyk, as well as the National Writer's Association to celebrate the historic anniversary of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, thinker and publicist. I would like to remind you right now that the world's highest authority to celebrate the most prominent people of any nation named UNESCO this year will mark the three prominent Ukrainians of the Jubilee, John Frank, we have already made the right decisions with you and the Cabinet of Ministers. Recently, my colleague, Les Tanjuk, here, briefed you on a draft decision on the marking of the brilliant Ukrainian playwright, the director of the theatre, and the actor, and the thinker, Les Kurbas and the Supreme Council, voted in favour of marking such a Jubilee. And the third in this beautiful range is John the Baptist. I'll say a few words about this man. Some of these can be the most fundamental points in his biography. Dear colleagues, it was found quite recently, that we had learned that culture had developed in the Soviet Ukraine, but it had a parallel function, a full - blooded culture that had been developed abroad by Ukrainian immigrants. It's also about songs, it's about theater, but in front of everything, it's really about Ukrainian literature. The amazing novel by Vasil Barka, unfortunately already dead, has returned to us, he has lived for almost 100 years, “The Gladomere of 1933”. This was, indeed, the first true work of what happened to our people in 1933. John Bagriany may be the first to reveal in Ukrainian literature the tragic pages of Stalin. It happened that he got under this non-Stalinian, under this totalitarian mole, was condemned here in the Soviet Ukraine, miraculously saved, even though he was doomed to death. And so it happened that it was in his novels that "He who runs over the chasm" "The Garden of Gethsemane" "The Tigers" in these works that he made these pages. I would like to remind you that this was one of the first Ukrainians to get the Nobel Prize. And who knows, maybe he would have won that prize if he hadn't died literally before the award was awarded. And you know that this award is awarded only to the living. John Bagriany returned to the Ukrainian reader today. His works, which were previously seen in virtually all languages of the world, and he represented Ukrainian literature for a long time -- the '50s, '60s, '70s, '80s. These works are now published and reprinted with very large circulations. I would like to say that while I was in exile, John Bagrany was an amazing figure. He did not fully understand it, and he often had to discuss it with, say, a foreign nationalist wing. Because John Bagriany, well, foresaw a brilliant thought, he said: “The independent Ukraine will be built by commodores and national communists.” He told the truth, so it did, by the way, and it did. For this he was severely criticized, for example, by the right side of the diaspora. Because of this, it was incredibly difficult for him because he was a stranger among his own and his own, so to speak. Because of this, I am convinced that we, fellow believers, before vacations and before solving the problems that hang on us today, have just a wonderful opportunity to carry out no political, purely humanitarian action. I want to say that the Ministry of Culture has already developed its own measures. No extra penny from the State Budget requires that. We took this decision to a very modest, normal cost. There, let's say the Ministry of Culture spends an evening at the theater, the Writer's Association spends evenings -- it's totally free. To publish his stamps there, to publish his coin, his works will be published in the series “Shevchenkovsky laureates”. And he's the winner of Shevchenk's National Award, because these funds are already foreseen. Because of this, I am convinced that God sees everything, and today we are voting for Parliament to participate in celebrating the Jubilee of this great, outstanding Ukrainian. The world celebrates it, I think we just don't have the moral right to vote for it today. I'm willing to answer your questions if you have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u56	Yes, thank you. I see they are eager to ask questions. Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u57	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Volodymyr Alexander, of course, it's just not clear what's going to happen here if we don't support the celebration of the Jubilee of a man who is honored by the world, but I want to ask you something else about the celebration of John Frank's Jubilee. I'm in the district and, in general, there's a lot of concern about how the budget is going to be used. Especially in the country. There is no adequate funding, according to Frank’s monument. Do you not find it appropriate to listen to information from the Ministry of Culture, or other officials about this preparation before the holidays? Moreover, the Jubilee will be immediately after Independence Day and there is concern that it will not be on a sufficiently high level.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u58	So, Mr. Eugene, I want to tell you, I'm going to join this organizational committee, I have this question, and I have to tell you with bitterness, just to say that, unfortunately, our authorities in Ukraine have no tradition of marking brilliant, prominent people who respect the world, and we don't know. What do you want, Eugene, when Chewchenka and I have not learned how to determine today? It's usually this kind of, you know, official kind of coincidence. They got together, shook each other's hands and split up. So, what about Frank? I can't give you the facts right now, let's say there are episodes of untargeted use of these funds. These costs are very limited, but I'm just glad that something is going to be done in the same Krivorovna where John Franco was, that John Frank's museum in Lviv will be repaired -- it's very important, as far as I know, that Edward Gurwitz is preparing a monument to John Frank in Odessa, after all, at the expense of the local budget. But, Eugene, your honor, that's very little. And the way we do it, how reluctantly our actions are turned around. We need to be a lot tougher here. It's our national culture. We can only be interesting to the world by our own culture, not our own products -- corrosive boots, suitcases or anything else. That's why you're right. Let's hit these bells and train the authorities to do these things. Doing professionally, doing intellectually, and doing it on a European level. Please, let me ask you another question. Adam Ivanovich, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u59	Please, Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich! I would like to ask you as an outstanding Ukrainian writer and public politician and a staunch wrestler for Ukraine's independence and an artist who from time to time puts new words into the dictionary of Ukrainian. You can't calm down! Last piece – “Julelove”!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u61	I know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u62	And I think the word "charcove" is also your idea. “Girl love”! So thank you as an outstanding actor! But give me an answer, perhaps with all due respect for the memory and creative heritage of John Bagrian, not to take the decision of the Supreme Council, but to take it to the well-known, and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to make the appropriate decision, where to say which Jubilee stamps to issue, where to call the street is the decision of the city of Kiev, and much more. Why should we, with all due respect, be determined to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u63	Well, I'm very grateful that you're ascribeing to me a mania of greatness that I've come up with, and I've made it up, and I've made it up. Well, that's my profession. You know whether to vote or not is in your hands. But I'll tell you, if you don't vote for it, it's going to talk about the level of your culture. The world celebrates the Bagran, and you want us to just give the Cabinet of Ministers an assignment. They'll do it without us. This is Parliament's authority. Your Honor, I know you as a minister and all that, but I don't understand your position. Let's drop the Bagran, and have the cabinet over there, please, as you vote, so people will know about it. I wouldn't do that. It's the prestige of the Supreme Council, it's the level of our culture, if you want. Yavorowski, criticize me, I'm an open politician, but let's not touch Bagrian or just throw him away, that we can do without him. I'm just asking the Supreme Council, it's our name, our authority, our honor. We must care for the dead today, and no one will care for them anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u64	George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u65	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, Volodymyr Aleksandrovich! In what year of Bagran is Taras Shevchenk awarded the prize?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u66	Dead in the early '90s. I could be wrong, it was Oles Gonchar who was the head of the committee of the Shevchenk Prizes, and then, just like Vasili Simonka, he was sentenced to several writers who did not qualify for this award in life. It looks like 91 or 92.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u67	Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm calling the reporter. Here, financial and economic justification, the implementation of the decision does not require additional material and other costs. Well, let's not be afraid of that. Needs, of course. And you need to talk about it. And I'm even suggesting where to take them, these costs. Look, Easy here, he's been criticizing everyone and everything, and he's gone to rest. And like Easy, in the 125th Faction, and they all went to rest. Let's just say that if you don't work in the workplace, you don't have to pay from the State Budget. Let them find other ways. And then we're going to have, we're going to have this celebration, we're going to have money, we're going to have everything else. And let's, in the end, really start to respect ourselves, Ukraine, and not just in words, but in business.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u69	Dear colleague Bulba, here no one understands you as much as I do, I am absolutely convinced and deeply respect you. But we don't draw Oleg Lacha here, we don't draw these pseudos of our political pull to the holy name of John Bagrian. We vote for him, I say again, because I'm an experienced man and a professional writer, and I can see on the faces how we beat these things. You don't want to vote. Don't vote. I voted. If necessary, we'll spend these evenings on social grounds, but today, I say again, this is the honor of our Parliament, this is the level of our culture, our spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u70	Alexei Razdziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u71	I'm reporting on behalf of the committee, not on behalf of the BUT faction. The committee is represented by all the political forces, and I'm stressing this again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Yavorowski! Alexei Razdziewski, faction of “Ukraine’s Regions”. We honor all your personal aspirations for the preservation of historical memory, the veneration of prominent fighters for the gathering of our nation. But we do have this question for you, please tell us your personal attitude, like the patriot of Ukraine, who is hurting for such sacred things, why is Julia Timoshenko's faction absent from this meeting and, practically, showing disrespect, ignoring all your suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Razdziewski, we know you, I've been in your mayor's office, the mayor's office, and I know you very well. I represent the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the Committee is the working body of the Supreme Council. In it, once again, I say, the represented committee head, the representative of the Communists, the beautiful, brilliant Ukrainian actress Zaklunna, you know, the represented regions, my first deputy, Deputy Baldwin, Tobacco, all represented. I'm reporting the position of the Committee on Culture, the Working Body, not the Yulia Block, but the Committee on Culture. You want to vote, I'm not taking it today. I'm not in charge of the faction now, I'm head of the committee, you're elected, so I'm asking you to vote for it. Don't drag those things in here that we're going to solve without it. You're a wise man, I know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u74	Yes, thank you, have a seat, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Let's sign up for the performance. Yes, those desiring so much. Yes, let us take 15 minutes for each faction representative to ensure that from each faction, each faction has a guaranteed right to speak, so give them five, three, five, 15 minutes. Please, Vitaly Hiccup Socialist faction. No, then, please, Little Yulia Tymoshenko Block, but please, on a subject, and I'll give you a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Mr. Yavorowski is absolutely right, let us not confuse sin and righteousness. So the position, the political position of the faction of Timoshenko, which is the result of which there are no deputies here, is a protest against the saviour that you, as representatives of the so-called anti-crisis coalition, are doing in the walls of Parliament. And noting the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer is a very different matter. So let's not translate it into political rails, let's support it, and the citizens of Ukraine will be grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u76	Yes, please, Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine" You don't? There is, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u77	Deputies! The name John Bagrian is, in fact, a spirit in Ukrainian culture, in Ukrainian literature. And I think that one of you, the one who read the Gethsemane Garden, the one who read the Tigrolovs, will always be in the soul and heart of that great spirit of the Ukrainian in search of a difficult fate, in search of his “self” in this complex world. And I would very much ask you not to politicize these things. Because we take our political preferences to the name of the Ukrainian, which makes Ukraine known on many continents, which has always advocated a Ukrainian culture that has always been peculiar, unusual, but sincere to Ukraine. So I ask you not to turn this into a political show but to vote for this outstanding date and to do everything to honor John Bagrian’s memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u78	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Who? Please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Today, I think we cannot help but wonder at the persistence with which the authors seek to reach a decision to commemorate the Jubilee of a man who has been influenced by the patriotic community. Regrettably, these ladies were lacking when the session hall addressed the question of marking at the national level a Jubilee, in particular the courageous Ukrainian “sokola, ” three times the hero of the Soviet Union of John Mikitovich Kožeduba, one of the founders of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine during the Great War of the Great Fatherland, the state-runer Demian Sergiowiovich Korotchenk. Recently, 100 years have passed since the birth of the famous son of Shewchenkov, the prominent Soviet general John Danilovich Czerniakhovsky, one of the liberators of the Soviet Ukraine. Or at least by word of mouth, one of you mentioned this man’s exceptional courage. As well as why Kyiv’s map cynically wiped out the name of the liberator of Kiev, the general of the Vatutin army, who became the victim of one of the UN UPA gangs. And there's this permeability and dimension, of course, at the state expense. Who, in fact, is John Bagrianny in the Ohtyr district of the Sumen? Let's leave his writing activity out of consideration for the time being. Let him, his works will give an objective assessment, not a nationalistic one, but an objective criticism, a broad readership. Recall, too, whether Bagrani - Lozovaga was legally bound by the Law, and he was committed to his duty to his Father. In 1932, consider, long before the beginning of the so - called repression for the illegal publication of his collection, he was condemned by the court. He fled the scene of punishment for which he received the second sentence. During the years of the Fascist invasion, he stained himself with cooperation with the occupying authorities by editing such a newspaper in Ohtyrka, boasting of the fascist system of things. In 1943 he was called to the Red Army, but under the city of Konotap he deserted from a military echelon, managed to make his way to western Ukraine, where he found refuge in the underworld of UN UPA. After the war, he moved safely to the Federal Republic of Germany, where he shared in the subversive activities held at the expense of Western centres until the end of his days. Therefore, the Communist faction will not vote in favour of this draft decree. And we urge our colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Lukyanenko Levko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u81	Lukyanenko, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow MPs! Now Matthew said that the Supreme Council did not vote for Kozeduba. I want to fix you. There were three candidates at the time, and we just voted. The third candidate was Samchuk. You didn't want to vote for Samchuk's 100-year-old Jubilee. And we voted in favour of celebrating Cosé Dubois. This is for a little bit of an adjustment as to what happened. And now, honourable Ukrainians, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to this. Our national destiny is that Ukraine spent 340 years under the occupation of Moscow, the Russian Empire. For 70 years we lived in a state of total censorship and, thank God, that the Communist authorities were not in the whole territory of Ukraine but only in part. So on the other side of Ukraine, where there was no Communist censorship, there was literary life, there was cultural life, there was artistic life. And that's where the Ukrainians made it. Some Ukrainians from eastern Ukraine traveled west during the war, creating cultural values, including literature. We can turn our backs on what the Bagrian created, we can close Bark's eyes, we can't help but close Samchuk's eyes, so we can wipe out the best creators of our national literature. But it's going to be an ostrich policy. Because they're talented people, they're brilliant Ukrainian writers. And if the Supreme Council doesn't want to see them, it's the Supreme Council. As to whether or not Bagrani served the fascists, I'd like to tell you that in the 20th year, his grandfather, his shepherd and uncle, were taken and shot for serving as simple soldiers in the army of the Ukrainian People's Republic. If you condemn the activities of the Ukrainian People’s Republic and its army, you simply oppose Ukraine’s independence. And they were shot for nothing. I'll tell you, we need to study history and not disrespect a nation that fought for independence, but respect. And the work of these creators, including the Bagrian, needs to be read. Works such as the Garden of Gethsemane were better than the works of the Archipelago Gulag, and only ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u82	Ruslan Knyazevich, from the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u83	Knazević, “Our Ukraine”. Lejko Grigorovich, perhaps all your arguments were in vain, for obviously, for ideological reasons, some part of the hall never listens. And this is the specificity of the Ukrainian Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, there's no warning. Everyone understands perfectly, and those who are not familiar with Bagrian's biography and who have listened to the Communist performances seem to have been around somewhere, lived, grew up in Western Ukraine and been in the woods all the time, fought, and then somehow been involved in the preparation of residential centres and so on. In fact, at least look at his biography: man grew up and was born on the Matter and lived all his conscious life on Harkishteen. At least for that matter. Along with the normative preparation of the document, I actually don't have any serious comments here, except for one: Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I think we should not recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, but rather give instructions to follow, as provided for in the Constitution after changes to it. And at the same time, there's one point that says that the Cabinet of Ministers has to make a decision in order to name the Bagrian as the streets in the cities of Kiev. In this regard, perhaps not the Cabinet of Ministers, but the city councils of Kiev, Sumu, Ohtyrky and the proposal should be called the name of the Bagrian Street in these cities, for it is the local council’s jurisdiction that is the solution. At the same time, the faction “Our Ukraine” fully supports the proposed draft decision and invites all colleagues to actively vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u84	The man passes the word to Sulkovstim. Please. On the rostrum or from the spot? From the place, please, although the country would like to see you on the rostrum. Yes, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your constant respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u86	This is a girl, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u87	Thank you, my colleague. Sulkovski, Ravenshina, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine You know, today's honorary national MPs are one more time, and individual populists, not in action, but in words that build so much Ukraine and are concerned about the patriots and heroes of Ukraine, the activists. And it's been years since we've all been convinced not only by the national MPs, but it's convinced the entire Ukrainian people that these populists are so tired of the Ukrainian people with popular slogans that they've never proved, never once, to strengthen the word with action. And they continue to blame, today. This issue has not yet been put to the vote, and it is already starting to push, push with the popular slogan that, if not voted by the regionals, they will be accused. And we know that if that happens, they're going on television right now, on the radio, and they're going to lie to the Ukrainian people, and they're going to blame others, not themselves. And that's why I don't think there's anything to put today, even though I'm making a proposal to take that question out of the vote at all. It's not that we don't respect the political actor, the hero of Ukraine, but that the party, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, is practically not in the hall. The patriots of these populists who have become so sick of their populist slogans to the Ukrainian people. I want to say that, not words, but in fact in 2003 and in the fourth years, as Prime Minister, Victor Janukovic was virtually excluded from Parliament. Why? Because, as Prime Minister Janukovic, it's not in words, but in fact a person who knew that this matter should be resolved by the government. And so it was decided by the Cabinet of Ministers, without exception, that issues were brought before Parliament today. And that's why I'm making an offer. This question will be referred to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and in a day's time, two will be Prime Minister Viktor Janukovitch, who will issue a decree to the Cabinet of Ministers and will be celebrated at the highest level by the Bagrian, at the highest level that the rapporteur has never dreamed of on behalf of the committee, Mr. Yavorowski. Because today, when he was on the rostrum, you saw how cunningly he turned everything over, as if he were from the committee, and what he did from the great faction in Parliament, and somehow he started to twist. You do not mock, my dear friend, but you tell the Ukrainian people honestly that you simply want to defraud and accuse someone today, blame your faction that is not working in Parliament today and is sabotaging outside the walls of the Supreme Council, and sabotages the lie to the Ukrainian people. So I urge the Ukrainian people to know how to vote in favour of these populists, who, apart from all the damage they have done to Ukraine over the years of independence, today want to continue their populist slogans and continue to prey on Ukraine and cause unrest in the Ukrainian people and in society. To conclude, I propose, Adam Ivanovich, not to put the matter to the vote today, to remove it, and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, I am convinced that this prime minister will be the one and this government is doing this question outside Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u88	I'm paying attention to the "Race" system that you're doing with it there. Dear colleagues, calm down. They have the right to a replica, then Javorowski, in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. One of the colleagues, from the so-called anti-crisis coalition, said in his speech that “It was easy to come up and go to rest”. In fact, respectable colleagues do not rest, but work to cut back on expenses for the maintenance of the Supreme Council. And on behalf of the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council, Frost, that I had already received my vacations. Yeah, he got it, and the niggers know where I spent, the residents of Ladan, the Chernigiv region, 5,000. For surgery, 5,000. To set up a monument in Novgorod-sversky gave and gave to others. I hope that Frost will set the example and do the exact same. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I think it would be absolutely right for us to entrust the Committee on the Rules to verify that the salaries of those who do not take part in the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council have been paid. I remind you, according to the Rules, that registration at the registration tables is the basis for the payroll. I ask the regulatory committee to check and report to one of the following meetings on who has received the salary of those who do not work, tells a great deal about democracy, about the benefits and everything else, about the demagogies. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear people who listen to us and who have chosen us! My reply to the man who spoke, I no longer know on behalf of the prosecutor’s office, for I have never heard such a prosecutor’s voice in Parliament. And my answer is very short. My late father, a simple peasant who was strangled by a tractor in the field, always taught me: “Never argue with a fool, for you will never be changed.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-01-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! The discussion was concluded, there were differing opinions, but it was submitted, appropriately to the legislative initiative and is the submission of a profile committee. I have absolutely no reason to take him out of consideration. I'm voting for the 1184 ruling on the 100th anniversary of John Bagrian's birthday. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:30.]] For-73 It's a non-adopted decision. The factions. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - 65, Socialists - 5, Communists - 0. Dear colleagues! All the questions that we have brought to the table today and those that have prepared the committees, you know that when we decide to continue the session for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, we have written there in the Order that we are working according to the proposals made by the committees. We're out of time for today. So I'm going to ask the committee heads, please use today's meeting time, those questions that you can prepare, we'd like to get these suggestions from you. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed and in view of the lack of suggestions on the day’s schedule for the evening meeting. There will also be no proposal to work with committees and factions for a proper evening meeting. Tomorrow morning, the beginning of the 10 a.m. meeting.
