ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:00:28]] In the session halls, 285 national deputies were registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. At the request of the National Bank of Ukraine, they are requested to transfer the draft Law on Amendments to the National Bank of Ukraine, which is registration number 1039. Therefore, we are now considering the Draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the form of bank formation and the size of statutory capital, registration number 1040. Reports head of the National Bank Stemach Vladimir Semenovich, co-rapporteur of Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, first of all I would like to convey to you from the banking community a wish for fruitful work and a creative wish in the Rules of the New Constitution. That's what the banking community gave you. And essentially the question. At the President's request, a bill on changes, some amendments to the Banking and Banking Act and the Economic Code are being submitted to your consideration. The question is, two of these are the main questions. The first question is the question of increasing capital. Now, according to current legislation, it is envisaged that banks that have the capacity and the right to carry out their activities throughout Ukraine should be organised on the basis of a capital of at least 5 million euros. Banks that can function in the area are three million euros. And cooperative banks are one million euros. But reality has shown that these standards, they come from a long time ago, that is, since the organization of commercial banks, need to be. In the early 1990s, when commercial banks began to be organized in 1988, that's where it came from. Life is not the first question that has changed the scale of prices and the cost of projects. So the question is that in this kind of capital, as well as working in one area, banks are unable and unable to mobilize the necessary capital that is needed, and they are, in fact, designed to serve a particular economy to support society's money. And they can't mobilize those funds for these projects. There is also the territorial limit. It's different. We have to assume that banks are not just business, although banking is business, but they are social institutions that operate on social money. And so, indeed, they should be under a glass cap, that is, under the constant attention of society. And you could say that you could add up to about 20 factors, the role of capital. For example, here are the representatives of “KRAZ”. There, the volume of projects is being implemented to make a combination of coal, two or three years old, and banks with that kind of capital, they can't invest the funds to finance, to advance such a project, and so on. In this regard, they are limited, and they are tied to capital. One client's credit rate, one issuer's rate, so to speak, of an affiliate, and so on. This all limits these capitals. And that's why we're making a proposal that newly organized banks, by the way, I can give you data that we have very, very, very many of these banks that don't have 5 million. Capital, 28 of them now have banks left. But they don't play that big role in the economy like other banks. We have the first 20 banks, it's practically 76 percent of the banking market, and it's closing these questions. But by mobilizing costs, they're said to concentrate, well they can't use them, and so, in a social sense, they're cost-effective, from the point of view of social assessment and the general economy. They're cost-effective, if they're mobilizing, well they can't issue them for lending. You can give an example if you take about 12 billion. The money that's in the banking system in the accounts is this 20 that I'm talking about that 76 percent has an impact on the market, it's only about 60 percent, and those other banks that are occupied, they're the rest. That is, money is not used effectively. That's one of the questions we need to raise capital. The second question is that other countries are already going to increase the role of banks from capitalizing them in society. So, for example, if we often take a sample, for example, of Turkey or Czechoslovakia. It's Turkey, it's made up its mind when it's doing money reform, denomination, they've made decisions, banks are created with a capital of at least 15 million. Euro. That's why life now shows that less than a fraction of that capital is unearmarked. Although my professional, so to speak, estimate, I would also suggest that banks be at least 15 million capital banks. Euro. But that's what the President is proposing, and that's why I represent the President's position. The second question is, it's no less important, it's a question of changing the corporate legal form of the banking system. We now have banks in the form of open stock companies, closed stock companies and limited liability societies, or those that are created on the basis of rations. And it also limits their ability to be active as a social-credit institution, to play an active role in the economy. Why? Because they're mobilizing their funds, that's just capital plus deposits, and so on, that's the question of fund-raising, for example, that their shares can be budgeted on the market, and that would also allow them to estimate their social weight, and so they could not only be depositing funds, but also attracting funds through the release, the issue of shares and so on. That is why it is possible to expand the management of these banks by society, i.e. the members of society who will receive, buy their shares, have the ability to manage certain things. So this is also a very important question, and I want to say again, for example, Turkey. Turkey passed this law and said that only new banks should be in the form of open stock companies. That's the question. And so it's proposed in this law that they also be in the form of open stock companies, and those who now act to give them a transitional period, both in capital and in legal form, that they enter into this, if you are supported by this law, into the new legislative field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u3	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. The truth was that we didn't want the Turks and the Turks to set an example, and that would be much better. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Cozub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u4	I give the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u5	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u6	Volodymyr Semenovich. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye It is from Zaporozhye that I would like to address this question because it is extremely painful for Zaporozhye voters. One of the very negative factors that undermines trust in commercial banks, and thus narrows down the scope of domestic investment, is this constant “pain”, a constant disaster, a collapse of banks, poverty and the loss of population money. I think you're sick and tired of the constant pints of people coming to Nazbank thinking that the money that's missing is yours and asking you to return it and so on. The same is true of us, MPs, because we are still majorists. In Zaporozhye, you know two problems – “Ukraine” and “Slovakia” bank, which are now being successfully resolved, and our bank, which is missing again, and in Kiev banks. Please tell me this bill of yours, we will vote for it, whether it will help to put some order in the liquidation of banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u7	That's a very good question. And I would just like to say that if we look at the tragedy of these banks, really, the biggest tragedy of those banks that come out, we're going to talk, we're going to go bankrupt, even though we call it the "equipment" procedure specific, we're going to have to do it legally. Banks are small, with small capital. You know, one of the reasons for small capital is because it's also not a high-level professional category. You know, 5 million. The euro, or more banks, is where high-class, professional people who have experience are selected, we're going to talk, bankers. And here the question is subjective and low-skilled, inability to properly assess risks, and there are these problems. So it's going to decide, let's say, not by 100 percent, but it's going to make a big difference. In addition, we hope that the changes to the Act on Deposit Guarantee will be adopted. Now we've adopted at the Russian level, where 15 grand. That's right. Once again, the Russians went a little further, and we caught up with them, and now we're back again. So the question is there and that's why it's going to solve this problem. It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u8	Please, Rafat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Hennady Josephovich the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u10	Gennady Widow's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u11	Dear Volodymyr Semenovich, I have great respect for you, as to our glorious banker, even though your bracelet does not fall and glory, God is strengthened. But I think in the tandem with Peter Dustenko you're going to pick up our bracelet. And the question of the continuation of Jaroslav Suhogo. I'm writing to you about the victims of this Kiev City Bank or whatever it's called. We need the National Bank to get you under control of all commercial banks. People believe all this advertising -- 15, 18 percent -- we can't condemn them for it. So tell me, people good, don't buy this commercial. You have a responsibility. How will you continue to work in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u12	Thank you for asking. The fact that it's very important in the context of this. But I would like to say that, you know, everyone's right to business, including banking is business as well. And the legislator, the legislator, has determined that no bank structure is economically dependent, independent and still has no right to interfere with their activities. We're only allowed by law to do, to do, to do, to look at their reports and to look where they're going, so to speak, their activity, in what sense does it not pose a threat to investors, well, these people who are talking about. And where bankers run honest, honest, work and honest reporting, there's no problem. And this Bank of Kiev that you're talking about, you know, you know, you could just say, you could say that, the government official called and said, "Just like you're dealing with this bank there," and I'm saying, "You know, now I'm just going to have a report, I'm going to look." I say: “Well, this is a bank, and then there are 95 banks. Well, he's normal inside, so to speak, it's the very indicators," "Well, then take two people." They come, “What is it? ” they give a contract, I see, so in one two months, the deposit expires, in the other three. What it doesn't do, it doesn't return the deposit bank, it immediately returns the check. And he's been lying about it. Everything was wrong, and it all came up with these questions. So, of course, but we're through the system of economic regulations and so on, and we're still in control, and we can really see where the bank is going, but only where it's going honestly. And if, of course, like this incident, there are, I'm sorry, there are, there are. That's why we're what we are now, we're really thinking about reorganizing surveillance to make it more efficient and faster to monitor the activities of banks. And we have no legal right to interfere with their operational activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u13	Please, Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u14	Vladimir Semenovich, whether or not the bank's capitalization will lead to a lower interest rate. And the rest of the time, I'm asking you to hand over the deputy to Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u15	Absolutely, I'm absolutely sure it will, because capitalization, the increase in capitalization allows us to expand their resource base, so we've already got over 60 billion dollars in dollars in dollars left in the population, and if the Institute of Economics estimates that there is a dollar equivalent of about 50 to 60 billion dollars in hands. And capitalization, the increase in capitalization, makes it possible, by law, to increase the mobilization of these resources for banks. The larger the capital, the more they have the right to mobilize resources, the mobilization of resources, the lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u16	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, sit down, Vladimir Semenovich, sit down. You've outsmarted yourself. You should not have asked questions, but you should have said the word, then I did. And that's how you see the red ones already zeros. Please, the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Peter Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u17	Thank you very much, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after the brilliant report by Vladimir Seminovich Stelmak, who gave a convincing explanation of the substantial part of the bill tabled by the President, I can only add that the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on June 20th, I am sorry, as of July 20, I have considered this bill and unanimously decided on the recommendations of the Supreme Council to take it up on the first reading. Indeed, the need for adoption of this bill is evident. Today, the state needs a transparent economy and transparent functioning of institutions, including banking institutions. That's why the change in the legal form recommended by the president as a legislative initiative for banks to function exclusively as open shareholders is absolutely obvious. This means that any investor, any bank investor, any shareholder, will be able to have absolutely free access to all the bank's underlying documents. In order not to repeat the collapse of the banking institutions that have been stressed today by the national deputies in the request to the head of the National Bank. And obviously, the need to make changes to the legal form of the registration of the banking institution is obvious. It is also perfectly timely to require a law to increase the minimum statutory fund of banks created at the time of registration, not less than 5 million dollars. This means that banks will be created as serious financial institutions. Guarantees for the functioning of these banking institutions, guarantees of investor rights, transactions with these resources will be significantly increased. And that's why it doesn't need any further argument. At the same time, I would like to stop: and why does the committee decide not to recommend to the Supreme Council as a whole that the bill should be adopted, and we only propose that it should be adopted in the first reading? Because we, this has been in the statements of members of the committee, we believe that it needs some editorial work and the terms that are set aside to change the legal form, and to clarify, if necessary, to either increase the statutory funds of the bank, or change the legal form, more carefully, the rules that protect the interests of the investors of the banks that are reforming. So the committee recommended that the Supreme Council should, after adopting the bill in the first reading, take some time for this bill to be elaborated on the committee just to solve these very important points, we think, and then recommend that the bill should be adopted in general. I would like to point out once again that during the committee discussion, there was no vote against it. All the political forces represented on the committee have spoken in favour of adopting this bill, and I therefore recommend that you support the bill that has been tabled by the President of Ukraine and vote in favour of it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u18	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, and if we do more wisely, it says that the law comes into force from the day of its publication, and if we set the date when it enters, whether from January 1, 2007, or later. And then you won't need a second reading, because there probably isn't anything else that needs to be edited here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u19	Dear Adam Ivanovich, surely your proposal deserves attention, but it is not only about the deadlines for the introduction of the bill, but also about the development of a meaningful part as in the Final Positions, the rights of investors will be protected. So I don't think the committee's going to pull. We're doing very quickly those proposals that were actually already prepared on the committee, and we'll soon be ready to introduce this bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u20	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Cozub. Give it to Sukhima. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u21	Thank you, Alexander Andriyovich, for your word. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, certainly after your brilliant co-report, and such an authoritative national deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, our faction has nothing left to do but to vote "for" silently. But I have a question for you as to the former head of the budget committee: please tell me a change in the organizational and legal form, and including the size of the statutory capital, please tell me if this will help solve the problem that you have repeatedly raised as the head of the budget committee here in this rostrum. I mean, counting the income of the National Bank of Ukraine to the budget, that's the eternal problem: how much, what percentage, where the ratio. Will it contribute or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u22	Mr. Jaroslav, I sincerely thank you for your kind words to my humble address. I'm sure that your faction will never vote stupidly, always it will vote only wisely, including in this case. And I want to say that, well, unfortunately, or fortunately, the activities of commercial banks concern me with the activities of the National Bank and the recalculation of the budget are made as the difference between the revenues and expenditures of the National Bank at the approved cost. In this case, it's only about the business of commercial banks. As Vladimir Semenovich has already said, the adoption of this bill will contribute to the reduction of credit rates, as the statutory capital of banks will be increased, the increase, the inclusion of free public funds, investors for lending the economy, and we are confident that the positive effects on the economy will be evident from the adoption of this bill. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u23	You may have noticed how kind you are to each other right now. This is probably a sign of what started, finally, a round table. Pink, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u24	Anton Ruzicki, “Our Ukraine” faction, the Christian Democratic Union. Please give the floor to Deputy Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u25	Please, Hennaday Widow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich, I am joining those praiseworthy words, but in the good sense with which Jaroslav Suhi has just spoken. My question, in principle, was to see Mr. Stelmach, but there was not enough time. Debt owed by Ukraine to other SND countries. Well, I remember him having masterful talks with Belarus in his day. We did not acknowledge the claims, the debts of Belarus to us. All of a sudden, I find out that Kyrgyzstan already has a claim against us. So it seems to me that I need the National Deputies to get your committee and the bank to prepare some kind of help that we owe to, and who else are we to blame for our past sins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u27	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Gennady Josephovich! We'll take your question as actually a task, the committee will deal with these problems. The position of the Ukrainian State has always been absolutely clear and principled. We did not recognize or acknowledge these debts either in terms of Belarus or in terms of Kyrgyzstan. We gave no reason for these States to present any claims to the Ukrainian State. This question is perfectly clear on the right-hand side and we are together, I think, in agreement with the National Bank, we will prepare a common manual for informing everyone without excluding the National Deputies in order to clearly identify both the Supreme Council and the Committee, and the National Bank. Dear Adam Ivanovich! My friends, my comments to Mr. Dryo's address and corresponding feedback are based entirely not at the beginning, or on the end of a round table in which I do not participate, but only on the great respect that I demonstrate to this national MP, whom I highly respect. Dear colleagues! Since time is running out, I would like to reiterate this bill, which was introduced by the President, which is extremely relevant and will help to solve the serious problems that exist today in this extremely sensitive area. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u28	Thank you, sit down, please. Is that clear? Shall we vote? The only thing I want to remind you before the vote is that we are ahead of all of Europe for the number of banks, both in the state and in the country. So let's put some order in order so that it doesn't have to be what you just asked, and Gennady Josephovich on the banks of Kiev, and Jaroslav Suhi on the banks that are tight and so on. Let's support this bill. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the form of bank formation and the size of statutory capital. Registration number 1040. Please vote. [[16:27:29]] For 301 The law was adopted in the first reading. Thank you. Let's go to Ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union is being complied with. Registration number 0016. Reported Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Sterbín Mikolayovich. Get ready for Winterfell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u29	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, there is a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union. Ukraine has been participating in this international alliance since June 1947 — almost 40 years. In this regard, it should be said that it takes an active part, and the testimony is that in the years of independence, Ukraine was elected twice to the board of directors and in 2004 to the post office. This allows Ukraine to build its postal system according to international requirements and the state-owned postal company “Krošta” has a very high reputation, a high rating in the World Postal Union. This is evidenced by the fact that the World Postal Union Service Quality Certificate No. 1 has been issued with the very "Small". The seventh Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Union Statute was signed on behalf of Ukraine on October 5, 2004, at the twenty - third World Postal Union Congress in Bucharest. The provisions of the Additional Protocol include an updated edition of the Universal Postal Union mission, a definition of terms such as postal service, a Member State, a single post office, freedom of transit, postal departure and an international postal service. Articles have been completed on the procedure for making warnings about World Postal Union acts, changes to statutes, general rules, conventions and treaties. This bill does not have to do with additional public budget costs and does not increase Ukraine’s payments to the World Postal Union budget. At the same time, ratification will enable Ukraine to continue its active activities under the World Postal Union, show the reliability of economic relations with Ukraine and show Ukraine as a full member of postal society. Given what you've been taught, I'd like you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u30	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Head of the Subcommittee, Transport and Liaison Committee Zimin Evgen Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u31	Good afternoon! Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft law on ratification of the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union, introduced by the President of Ukraine, was considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Transport and Liaison on July 24, this year. Since the reporter in this question has already informed you about the purpose and content of this additional protocol, I will not repeat myself about the details, just to say the following. That the main mission of this alliance is to create conditions for the free and secure circulation of mail in the world. Membership of the World Postal Union allows our country to take advantage of the benefits that result from joining the Union, for example, such as the system of cross-accounting for international postal exchange, the use of technology and payment systems to provide financial services, technical standards for barbaric identifiers, equipment, e-mails, etc. In accordance with the requirements of the UPU status, changes adopted under the UPU statute should be made in the form of an additional protocol and ratified by the relevant authority of the UPU member country. In connection with this purpose of the bill, which is being considered and proposed for adoption, is the ratification of the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union, which provides for some changes in the terminology and refinement plan of the statute. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 19.07. In 2006, he notes that the provisions of the 7th Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union are correct and suggests ratifying the specified protocol. The specified protocol was carefully handled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the participation of the national postal operator of the Ukrainian public postal company “Staff” and signed, as has already been reported, on October 5, 2004 at the UPS convention in Bucharest. I must also take into account, I repeat, that the ratification of this protocol will not result in additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The Transport and Communications Committee of the Supreme Council, after considering the materials by Bill unanimously decided to support the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union without reservation. Please support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u32	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Then I'll put it to a vote. Who, in order to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union, please vote. [[Registration No. 0016]] [[16:34:35]] For 289 The law is passed. Protocol ratified. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Air Connection is under consideration, registration number 0023. The Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Sterbín Mikolayovich, reports. Prepare the Galunanka Alexandre.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Air Relations. The adoption of this law will facilitate the establishment of a contractual legal framework for international air relations between Ukraine and Jordan, the revitalization of bilateral international relations between these countries, the development of aviation cooperation. Ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement and further implementation of its provisions will not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The agreement foresees the development of air communication on parity grounds. There may be a number of airlines from both countries that will usually promote competition in this mode of transport. Today, an airline from Ukraine designated as an air carrier between Ukraine and Jordan is assigned to the airline “Ukraine’s Mediterranean Airlines”. During the summer period of this year, she makes two flights a week. A team from Jordan, an airline called the Royal Jordan Airlines, has been appointed. It does not execute flights, but a commercial agreement has been signed between the Ukrainian and Jordanian airlines, according to which the Ukrainian carrier gives the Jordanian carrier a block of chairs. This agreement meets the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization and will contribute to the further development of the Ukrainian air transport sector. Based on what you've been taught, I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u34	Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Suhim Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u36	You're handing over Sukhmu. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u37	Thank you. The point is that we have in our hands the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Airy Connection. Here is a serious observation that we, Ukraine’s national deputies, especially on the eve of the new fiscal year, have always reacted harshly. You read that bills to grant consent to the obligations of Ukraine's international roads should be accompanied by financial and economic calculations and forecasts of the possible consequences of their approval. We're also interested in the budgetary costs that Ukraine is experiencing, and the possible socio-economic or socio-working consequences when we adopt such a law. So please, in your statement, you didn't refer to the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, I'd like to ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u38	This applies to Article 9 of the 10 Agreement. Article 10 fully corresponds to the Statute of the International Civil Aviation, which has already been ratified by the Supreme Council and is in operation. Article 9 is practically complete, except for the last paragraph, that is, in addition to those, as it were, the benefits that are provided for in the ratified Statute of the International Civil Aviation Organization are added that each contractual party, on the basis of reciprocity, is freeing up as much as possible in accordance with national legislation. And that's it. Airplane forms, air carriers, computer security equipment, and any advertising material. As I said, for today only the Ukrainian airline is flying. That is, these requirements will be only for Ukraine’s benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u39	Well, I remind you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. The Cabinet's explanatory note on financial and economic justification indicates that no expenditure is foreseen from the State budget. Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u40	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I have a question for Nikolai Mikolaiovich: here I am reading "the purpose of the airline". What does "destination" mean? How does this happen? Based on the contest, how? Because we have such bad examples when we were forced to deal with them. How capable are these airlines to make these flights at a serious level?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u41	Thank you for asking. To date, the appointment is carried out according to the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Assignments are made in accordance with the requirements of these bilateral agreements. In this case, we're assigning an airline to the Kiev-Oman line. And according to this agreement, each party on a parity basis can appoint several airlines. So you can create competition. Ukraine’s beloved airline, which will apply, can be assigned to this airline. Another matter is when such contracts provide that only one airliner. Then there's the problem when, well, especially the good lines are given to one airline, there's a conflict. In this case, exactly, we're on our way to create competitive, so to speak, conditions. And this policy will continue, primarily in relations with the countries of the European Union. Here the European Union, as it were, initiates and we will also go, as it were, to meet to create a more competitive environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u42	Thank you. True, Jordan is not yet part of the European Union. Have a seat. Please. We're talking about Jordan. Head of the Transport Committee subcommittee, Galunenko Alexander Vasilovich. Please have the opinion of a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications at its meeting considered a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Air Relations. This agreement determines the order of regulation of international flights in the operation of contractual lines between Ukraine and Jordan and gives each party the right to appoint one or more airlines to carry out regular operations between the two countries. The designated companies of both parties are provided with a fair and equal possibility of operating airline lines along established routes. In order to ensure flight safety, an inspection mechanism is in place to assess their compliance with the standards of an international civil aviation organization. The adoption of this law is aimed at establishing a bilateral contractual legal framework for international air relations between Ukraine and Jordan and will strengthen the legal mechanism of the international level for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations, the development of aviation cooperation, the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the agreement can be ratified. The Transport and Communications Committee also supports the bill and proposes to ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u44	Thank you, Alexander Vasilovich, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Air Connection, registration number of Bill 0023. Please vote. Let's give the constitutional majority. [[16:45:04]] For 299 We didn't make it, 299. Act adopted, deal ratified. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine, registration number 0025. Reported by the Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee, Nikolaychuk Olena Anatolylna. Prepare Martinek.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you are given the law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine. Once it becomes effective, this international agreement will be the legal basis for the transit of nuclear materials. This agreement deals with issues related to transport safety, physical protection, including the protection of special cargo, the distribution of liability in the event of an emergency. It is also a matter of interaction between the different competent authorities and these competent authorities. This agreement, it was developed in view of the fact that an earlier agreement signed in 97 and envisaged the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Bulgaria through Ukraine and Moldova, could not actually be applied in view of the fact that the Republic of Moldova refused to allow the passage of that part of the route through the Transnistrian Republic. The development of this agreement took into account the practical experience of applying similar agreements on the transport of transit nuclear materials between Russia and the Czech Republic, Russia and the Slovak Republic, Russia and Hungary as well. And similar agreements on international transfers of nuclear materials between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. All practical issues, they have been properly dealt with, nothing new in this respect, and at the same time they are complemented by the practice of applying previous agreements in order to make all these regimes as effective as possible. The implementation of an international treaty submitted for ratification does not require the adoption of new or amendments to the current laws of Ukraine. The adoption of this act does not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u46	Thank you, Helen Anatolyevna, I see especially the men want to ask you a question, sign up. Let's take five minutes, Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u47	Thank you. Prokopovic, “Our Ukraine” Block. I have two questions, when we discussed this agreement on the committee, that your committee gave us information that the budget would receive the costs of transporting these nuclear materials. But why don't you write in an explanatory note that there's nothing in the budget. So we have to write, essentially, what we're going to have. That's the first one. Why is that, and I'd like to get that number. That's the first one. And the second. If I am not mistaken for the third article, paragraph 3 of paragraph 8 says that if anything happened, the compensation would take place within one month of recognition of the event. Confession of this event, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u49	Mrs. Natalia, thank you for asking. I'm sorry, if we haven't given you all the information we need, I'm verbally answering you now. I have a reference to the fact that, as I said, these transports are not only between Bulgaria and Russia, through Ukraine, because of transit transports, only the Cruise Station received 5 million last year. 951 thousand. Here's the money. These include 2.7 million United States dollars. The money was received for eight shipments of nuclear materials between Bulgaria and Russia, which took place last year at the request of the Russian-Bulgarian government, in parallel with the development of this agreement. The second question, I finally realized, is two things. The first ingredient is compensation for nuclear damage, it's not worked in detail here. Why? Because there is a reference to the Vienna Convention, to civil liability for nuclear damage, where these mechanisms are worked in detail, this is a reference in Appendix One, which is an integral part of this agreement. Ukraine, Russia and Bulgaria are participants in this convention, this issue has been addressed. Article 8 speaks of additional funds that a Russian or Bulgarian operator, under the guarantee of the respective governments, will pay Ukraine for measures related to the elimination of environmental damage, etc. What the current edition of the Vienna Convention has not yet taken into account for security in the city, etc. And of course, at all of these costs, the month is given to Ukraine to calculate in general the amount of money that is being invested. But I'll tell you the truth, over 15 years ago, because these shipments were when Ukraine wasn't independent, we didn't have any accidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u50	Please, Hennaday the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear Helen Anatolyevna, I support this bill, and I propose that it be ratified. But I have a very high level of concern about how this very harmful cargo will be protected when transporting the territory of Ukraine? Or somewhere along the way for a bottle of vodka, I'm sorry, the wagon won't pull off and leave it somewhere in the deaf, and our folk masters will find a way to remake it, somewhere, something. So far as I'm asking, and it's me, dear colleagues, don't smile, I've been the minister of foreign affairs, I've been on the phone at night that at a station with a border, on the border with a Moldovan explosive, I've been brought to Russia by another World War I that could have exploded at any time -- it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u52	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich, for your question. I'm not going to go into the details right now because they're classified information, but what I want to say. In the transport of nuclear materials to Ukraine, their security is carried out by the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That's the first one. And it's a pretty reliable protection. Secondly, the wagons with nuclear materials, they don't touch any trains -- it forms a special train, in which these cars and the carriages of escorts are exclusively generated, and they're missed by letter flights, that is, without extra stops and without anything. It's a very serious question and it's like I said it's not the first year going on, even close to precedents. All the time, including appropriate training, internal troops are being tested for physical protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u53	Please, Victor Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u54	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Would you please tell us that the Ukrainians are ready to transport these goods on technical roads? Because the Minister of Transport is always complaining about the loss of the economy. There were some assurances before these treaties were concluded by the Ministry of Transport for the Transport of These. the safe transport of these goods?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u55	Thank you for asking. Dear Mr. Borschevski! Of course, all of these routes, they are subject to preliminary verification, prior to their initiation on this route of transport, they have been checked and checked regularly enough. Both the stations and the ports through which it all goes through. Our inspectors, including last week's physical inspectors, were last checked in the port of Rennie and the port of Ishmael.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u56	Thank you, Helen Anatolyevna. Please sit down, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u57	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has considered this bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine. Registration No. 0025. Its adoption is a necessary step in the process of acquiring the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine, signed on April 27, 2006, in Kiev, and in the form of a declaration of its obligation for Ukraine. After becoming effective in the order set out in the text of the Intergovernmental Agreement, this International Agreement will be part of the Ukrainian legislation and a contractual basis for the transit of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine. Including the regulation of transport safety, the protection of special cargo and the distribution of liability to the parties in the event of an emergency, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage and Other International Instruments. In line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the agreement may be ratified, except for the Committee on Fuel and Energy. I mean, this bill also supports the Committee on Transport and Communications. As part of the development of this agreement, MPs, members of the committee in the past convened, who are now working on a fuel-energy committee, and believe that it is as comfortable and secure as possible for Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u58	Thank you. There are questions, please sign in. Three minutes, please, Bug. Please wait, the microphone will turn on, although your voice is general. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. That's my question. These are nuclear materials not transported through Ukraine from Bulgaria and Russia. As we understand it, we are talking about nuclear materials for the operation of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant by Bulgaria alone. Nuclear materials can be understood as both warheads and other nuclear materials. I understand that this is a matter of safe exploitation or effective exploitation of the Kozloduy AES in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, we must understand that a ratified treaty is a framework agreement on which separate contracts will be made. We have a government regulator to deal with this issue. So each shipment is a separate contract that will be monitored by the State. And this is a framework agreement that we need to ratify with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u61	Mikola Volodymyrovich, let's both calm down together, that this is really not about nuclear weapons, it's about what it has to do with nuclear power plants. But it's a dual-order product, you know. Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u62	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, please calm us down on one more matter. I'm quoting paragraph 2 of the appendix. The personal composition of Bulgarian and Russian guards arrives in Ukraine in its established form and has the right to carry and use weapons in accordance with the laws of its state when carrying out its duties. Please tell us, as an official representative of “Our Ukraine”, do you imagine that the military formations of Russia or Bulgaria in accordance with their legislation, non-Ukrainian, would use weapons against Ukrainian citizens in the event of an emergency?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, again, Helen Anatolyevna spoke of a special order of transportation. And let's not scare each other with certain things. Speculative things, by the way, were raised yesterday and on the committee when it was discussed that the very topic of nuclear materials was politically speculative. In this situation, we need to think about how civilianly we can build relations from both Bulgaria and Russia, where we also send our nuclear wastes. atomic stations, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u64	Please, Stepan the potato.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm obviously trying to calm everyone down. Still such shipments have taken place dozens of times. This is what I learned from the report of the first reporter. And so now it's just about passing the law to legitimize these transports, which means that control of these transports will be more specific, effective, which means they'll be safer. Although, of course, any transport of this type across Ukraine is not desirable, it was illegal. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u66	They took place last year under one contract, under one contract. Just as the Framework Agreement, you said quite correctly, it gives legal basis, there are certain requirements to one side, to the other. And of course it's more convenient for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u67	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Here, we've given a commission to one of the committees, namely the Committee on European Integration, and they have an opinion. So I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Euro-Integration Evening Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u68	Deeply respected Adam Ivanovich and deeply respected people's deputies, Ukrainian citizens, radio and television. When it comes to nuclear materials, production, storage, transportation, this is an important strategic security issue for our State of Ukraine. In this case, it is a transit of nuclear materials in Ukraine that are not produced in Ukraine. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft law carefully. Many comments were made by members of our committee: Shevchuk, Lanov, Prokopović, Tarasyuk, and me. We have sent a letter to the WTEC Branch Committee to finalize the bill and then only to submit it to the Supreme Council. We ask not to support this draft law because the economic feasibility of this project is not clear, many items that need to be finalized legally. These are the items in the appendix, where, indeed, the find., states that there are armed people in Ukraine, in the form of soldiers of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation, with weapons loaded and used in accordance with the legislation of their State, not the State of Ukraine. This is very dangerous for us, and we ask that the bill be sent to the Committee on TeKu, the Committee on Transport and the Committee on European Integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u69	Thank you, sit down, please. If we have, more faithfully, agreements to write to the Committees of the Supreme Council, then we will assign the Cabinet of Ministers to enact the Laws. Let's let everyone do their job. I understand the committee on Euro-Integration, and there's always something he wants to do. But it's not your job to write cooperation agreements. Our job is to ratify them or not ratify them. It says the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u70	I'll do it again. Please look at the rules. I understand you're having a hard time looking into it. The chairman, if inaccuracies are allowed, is obliged to correct the error. I fix it, remind it, or the deputies what they're supposed to do. Is there a need to discuss matters? Yes, Shevchuk. Please, Sergey Shevchuk. They were saddened by their work in the Supreme Council. So let's say hello. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u71	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I ask you, as Chairman, first of all as kindly as we today have a day of kindness, to answer the question: why are you in violation of article 192 of the Rules, which requires that, when considering international treaties and treaties, bills, I quote, “reviewed in advance by a committee whose knowledge belongs to the principles of foreign policy”. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has not considered this bill, so you have deliberately brought it here unprepared, and you are still allowing yourself some criticism from another committee on matters of Euro-integration. Now essentially this bill. Dear colleagues, let's really throw away some political moments. The deal is extremely serious: the transport of dangerous goods. It is logical to carry this transport safely, say, from the Russian ports on the Black Sea to the ports of Bulgaria. Instead, the bill proposes established practice, which is not perfect: the railway from Hutir Mikhailowski station across Ukraine to Ishmael city, then the transshipment into water transport, passing Romania, which does not want to do so, and then to the ports of Bulgaria. The risks of the land route are known, both here and Kip, and after Kirka, we were told that 70% of the railway routes are worn out, overloaded, unregulated movements. The risk of Ishmael’s port is also known. By the way, we should ask the local community if it knows about these risks and the port employees. But what's important is how this agreement regulates the period of our operations in a period of potential emergencies. I quote, honorary colleagues, not to be told that I'm making something up. Article 8(1): “The elimination of the consequences of an accident in the transport of special cargo, including a nuclear incident, is recorded in this agreement, as well as the security of communications in the area of the accident being carried out by the party in whose territory this accident occurred”, i.e. Ukraine. What is permitted in Ukraine? Article. Paragraph 2 of this article says that only to turn to Bulgaria and Russia for help. Second question about the military unit. Well, really, I don't know if the Minister of Justice has seen this agreement, but, Adam Ivanovich, if there are any uncertainties, every deputy has the power to clarify them here. And in vain, you deny it. The agreement allows me to ask, as I have already asked, that armed formations have the right to carry, to use weapons in accordance with the laws of their State. Where did you see that in the territory of the sovereign Ukraine, the sovereign State, the people of the weapons of other nations exercised their country’s right? This right should be exercised in the North Caucasus, elsewhere, but not against Ukrainian citizens. I suggest you, your honor, reject, delay this important issue until all the points are cleared up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-27-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has a right of opinion. As Sergey Volodymyrovich said, we heard her. Have a seat, please. Please sit down, there's nothing wrong. The session hall is defined. I understand there's more politics here. And, look, so far, and I'm drawing your attention, the treaty was signed on April 26, 2006. So far, you and I have had nothing to do with the subject, trains have been traveling, all this has been transported, everything has been fine. As soon as we began to legalize this, someone became dislikable. I think it's better if we legitimize it. That's the first one. The second, I think, my respectable colleagues, I'm not going to open anyone's eyes wide if I say that language here is based on the name of the contract, actually, in one country with which it's signed. And around it, the turn of excitement and the tracks are bad, and the soldiers are bad, and so on and so forth. So, honourable colleagues, well, Rephat, I'm surprised, of course, why he's saying, but Prokopovich, I'm saying why I'm commenting that the chairman is taking stock of the discussion. Please read the Rules. Don't rebel, don't rebel, because nerve cells don't regenerate. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Bulgaria through Ukraine. Registration number 0025. Please vote. [[17:10:01]] For 279 Thank you for understanding, the law passed, the deal ratified. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party 176. Block Timoshenko – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 48, Socialist Party – 32, Communists – 21. Dear colleagues! The agenda for today is exhausted, so you and I have the possibility that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council will be closed. Work starts tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
