ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies and guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Today is the day of the government. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[10:08:58]] The presence of 408 members of the people was fixed. Announcing an open meeting. Along with the tradition, we welcome Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenka, the youngest with a birthday. Hello. We wish him success in all his affairs, including his duties. In line with the calendar schedule for today’s session, another Ukrainian government day is held at the morning session. And for the implementation of the Supreme Council Order of 3 August, the subject of our consideration will be the government's information on the implementation of the National Professional Rehabilitation Programme and the employment of persons with limited physical capacity for 2001-2005. The Rules provide a report for 15 minutes and an hour to answer, and you can answer for an hour and a half how the session will determine how Parliament will determine. For a representative of the profile committee scheduled there for about five minutes, by order of three minutes, but we can increase because of the important subject and the 30-minute discussion as provided by the regulation. And the reporter here is the appointed Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Michael Mikolayovich. I invite him to the show. So I repeat 15 minutes for the report, 45 minutes for the oral answer, 45 minutes for the written question, together for an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved! The National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Limited Physical Opportunities 2001-2005, which is being considered today on Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, contains concrete measures aimed at the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities to professional orientation and training, education and volunteer work. The current adoption of this document was due to the fact that more than 2.5 million people live in Ukraine. disabled people. During the program, the national legislation has been consistently harmonized with international standards, a network of rehabilitation institutions has been established, and steps have been taken to implement the constitutional right of persons with disabilities to work. There has been a marked shift in the integration of disabled people into education, and the creation of a barrier - free environment has been initiated. The basis for practical changes was the legislative basis, and the implementation of the program allowed for the improvement of the country’s legislative framework for the social protection of persons with disabilities. 248 legal acts adopted, ratified by Convention No 159 of the International Labour Organization on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In the last year alone, more than three dozen legal instruments have been approved that aim at creating an enabling environment for individuals with special needs. The improvement in the quality of legislation was driven by the coordinated work of the government, the central executive bodies with the professional parliamentary committees and the social organizations of persons with disabilities. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The priority tasks of the program are to educate people with disabilities as a basis for quality employment. Ukraine's Euro-Integration Progress has been marked by the development of an integrated universally accessible system, a general medium, a vocational and higher education. Today, about 70,000 students and their peers are studying in educational schools in Ukraine. Children with mental and sensory problems. A specific category of children with disabilities whose health does not allow for education and training in public schools is 54,000. Children receive education in 396 special schools. In the Ministry of Education and Science, the number of students with limited physical, mental development capacity has increased by a third over the past five years, to nearly 4.5 thousand. persons. The vocational training of young people with functional limitations is also carried out in five specialized educational institutions, the spheres of administration, Minpraci, where more than one and a half thousand disabled people acquire jobs. Since 2001, the number of students with special needs in higher education has nearly doubled. Today, more than 9,000 are obtained by higher education. persons with disabilities. The activity of the Open International University for Human Development in Ukraine, which has 26 branches in all regions of Ukraine, contributes to maximizing the needs of disabled people in educational services, bringing them closer to their homes. At the same time, about 2,000 are taught. Students with disabilities. For the introduction of integrated forms of education only through a social protection fund for persons with disabilities in 2001-2005. Some 15 million were diverted. That's right. In eight months of this year, more than 3 million are allocated directly. That's right. The country’s distinguished national deputies, during the program, have been able to form a comprehensive system for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. The rehabilitation network has increased more than twelvefold. In 2003, you recall, he was assigned to a year of disabled people and became a year of special attention to the problem of disabled people. Due to the well - thought - out, consistent, and purposeful actions of the government led by Viktor Yanukovic, it has been possible to ensure a substantial increase in public spending on the provision of disabled persons with technical means of rehabilitation, the establishment of a system of rehabilitation and employment. These expenses have become protected articles of the budget, and this has produced concrete results. At present, 557 rehabilitation agencies are operating in the area of various administrations. Minpraci’s organs are directly subject to 289 rehabilitation centres and wards. There are 100 such institutions in the system of miniscules. In the area of health, 61 institutions. In the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports, 45 centers In public organizations, people with disabilities are rehabilitated with a limited capacity of 62 institutions. One of the first steps in building a system of professional rehabilitation in Ukraine was the discovery of the All - Ukrainian Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The establishment of the center was carried out with the active involvement and assistance of the International Labour Organization. The center has created all the necessary conditions for professional rehabilitation, training, and living with disabilities. Between 2002 and 2006, nearly 1,300 disabled people were in the center of their nine jobs. The coordination and methodological functions of the entire network of regional rehabilitation institutions have been placed at the centre. Since last year, it has started to develop the human potential of local rehabilitation facilities. In 2003, a decision was made on the establishment of interregional centres. These centers now operate in Winnitsky, Lvivsky, Lugansk, Cherniewsky, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The importance of their work is given to further employment of persons with disabilities. For example, more than 50 percent of the employees of Winnick and Lviv Interregional Centres are former listeners. The scope of professional and professional training for disabled persons covers a wide range of specialties and jobs. With them, about 85 percent of graduates are employed or able to start their own business. In 2002, the National Centre for Paralympic and Deflimpic Training and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities was launched in Eupatoria for the financial support of the Social Protection Fund, which has become a core of the physical and sports rehabilitation system of the disabled and the training of paralympic athletes. The gains of our athletes in international competitions are well known. Over the past five years, more than 250 million dollars have been spent by the Social Protection Fund to create centres and improve their material and technical base. During the 8 months of this year, some 30 million dollars have been earmarked for this purpose. In the process of implementing the national program, more than 100,000 people with disabilities received employment. Clearly, it is employment that is responsible for the full rehabilitation of those noted and the integration into social life. To this end, all existing mechanisms have been involved, namely, the establishment of appropriate standards for job security enterprises, the provision of targeted financial assistance at the expense of the budget, the use of public employment services. This is evident from the specific results. It is worth noting that the National Programme’s tea has nearly tripled the number of enterprises implementing disability employment standards. The level of employment of the employment service of persons with disabilities corresponds to the overall employment rate of the unemployed. The positive momentum in this direction that you see on the slide is achieved by the joint actions of the government and the parliament. We are grateful to the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have supported many who have not supported many attempts to change the working system for people with disabilities. During the National Programme, the Social Protection Fund provides financial assistance to enterprises of all forms of property to over 42 million people. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The technical refurbishment of UTOG, UTOS and the All-Ukrainian Disability Organization of the Union of Disability Organizations of Ukraine is directed at nearly 90 million people. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. In the previous five years, the total number of people with disabilities in the state budget was 61.5 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. financial assistance. In the 2006 budget, more than 27 million are earmarked for the targets. in the year 2001, which is almost four times as high as in the year 2001. The following year, financial support for the social organizations of people with disabilities will be increased by another 10 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 However, the analysis that we have carried out shows that there is a need for a substantial improvement in the efficiency of each work-related measure. It cannot be tolerated that a third of the enterprises of disabled people’s organizations, with national financial support, have reduced the number of workers or do not provide decent working conditions, including an adequate level of wage. Convinced that pooling our efforts to create special jobs, increasing competitiveness in the labour market through special training programs will have a positive impact on the growth of employment in this category. Dear National Deputies! The integration of people with special needs into society is not possible without the provision of rehabilitation technology, prosthetic or orthopaedic products, transport tools, comfortable orthopedic shoes, crutches, small machinery and household rehabilitation. Over the past five years, 560 million dollars have been allocated from the State Budget for the target. Compared to 2001, more than twice as many as 94 million dollars have been allocated for technical rehabilitation supplies in the current year. Every year about 800,000 people with limited capacity receive technical means of rehabilitation. Sadly, we have not been able to provide for the needs of the disabled in full. With the aim of solving the reported problem at Minprac, the government in the 2007 State Budget project envisions a substantial increase in the cost of production of technical means of rehabilitation, leading to an increase of 260 million dollars. In the following year, we plan to take a whole series of practical steps for the technical refurbishment of prosthetic and orthopedic enterprises. The introduction of modern technologies that address the needs of people with disabilities at the highest international level. For these purposes, nearly 200 million dollars of budget funds are allocated. What I'm trying to say is that over the last two years, this has not been predicted at all. With the aim of implementing the requirements of the National Programme in 2003, the government approved a national programme to ensure that people with limited physical capacity can have access to housing and social facilities. Its priorities include the adoption of regional programmes for the unhindered access of persons with disabilities to social transport information and other infrastructures. Involvement of representatives of the labour and social protection agencies in the commission for the adoption of completed construction and reconstruction projects for the creation of priority lists, ensuring the integrity of social institutions. The decision of local self-government and executive authorities in local economic and social development programmes, beginning in 2006, provides for the creation of specialized transport services for the free and free movement of people with disabilities. City transportation is becoming more accessible to people with disabilities. Research samples of a bus and a trolleybus equipped with special lifts have been made. A built-in test sample of a tram with a custom input. The number of trains with special wagons for the carriage of disabled persons is increasing. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In recent times, representatives of Ukraine have been actively involved in the work of international instruments on the rights of the standard of living of people with disabilities. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is constantly developing international ties in the field of professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities in Europe, including Britain, Germany, Austria, and Sweden. Despite achievements and positive trends in this area, however, there are still many outstanding issues and unresolved problems. The level of employment of people with disabilities does not meet their needs and abilities, especially among mentally ill citizens and mentally retarded persons. To achieve positive developments, more attention should be paid to the education of persons with disabilities. We need to optimize the existing network of rehabilitation facilities for disabled people and children. Part of the facility does not have the necessary material base, qualified personnel. In order to further develop and improve the quality of rehabilitation services, it is necessary to provide State support, inter alia, to address the issue of amending the Ukrainian Budget Code in part of the financing of these institutions from the respective levels of budgets. The Social Protection Fund has not always been used effectively, especially in the last two years, when the Fund’s financial resources have not been used for several months, it has been directed towards financing non-rehabilitation and job creation for persons with disabilities. By completing your statement, let me express to you, on behalf of the government, our gratitude for the support and understanding of the problems of people with disabilities and our confidence that by working together we are able to provide them with a life worth living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u3	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. By procedure, replies will be received to the authors of the written notes. Writers of notes and oral questions. So I would like to write down the question of who wants to ask their question first, and Mikailo Mikolaiovich will answer the written question first. Please. We've got an hour and a half for all of this. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u4	Thank you. Questions from the Science and Education Committee. “What has been done in 5 years by the Government of Ukraine to address the problem of self-sustainment of students with limited physical capacity who are trained in special public education and health-care schools of boarding schools and what measures have been taken to enable students in the senior grades of the listed educational institutions to take over the professions for further possible work?” Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! According to the Ministry of Education and Science and I am grateful to the Ministry for its fruitful and close cooperation, 54,000 children are now receiving special education, who need physical or mental development adjustments in 396 special public education institutions, 336 special public education boarding schools and 60 special public education schools with extended days. 6,000 300 children in need of physical or mental development are taught in special classes of public education. In order to provide quality education, medical and social rehabilitation, integration into society, which requires adjustment in physical or mental development, taking into account their individual abilities, interests and capabilities, legal security has also been improved. In July 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a state standard of initial general education for children who need to adjust physical or mental development in the relevant education sector, which introduced courses on the basics of choosing a profession and developing a healthy lifestyle. Taking into account the specific capabilities of students, this and this are done by special boarding schools for children in need of physical development. These are deaf children, hearing impaired, blind, with reduced vision, with impaired drive-by equipment, working as professional and professional preparers. And the graduates of these institutions, at the same time with full general secondary education, have mastered the profession of correspondingly recommending to a doctor: the operator of personal electronic computing machines, accountants, construction, construction, sewing, carpentry, other directions that take account of the needs of the regions, the wishes of children and their parents. The ninth - grade graduates of special educational institutions for children with reduced intelligence have the opportunity to master the ten - grade profession. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine is coordinating scientific research with increasing the effectiveness of educational work for vocational and vocational training. Social rehabilitation and special education institutions of various kinds: Dnipropetrovska, Ivano-Frankivska, Zaporziska, Lvivska, Mikolayivska, Odessa, Kharkivska, Hmelnicka, and other areas. And to date, the introduction of advanced teaching materials, the experience of work, will create prerequisites for effective preparation of children with disabilities for their own lives and work. Thank you. The meeting is chaired by MARTINJUK A.I.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u5	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u6	Dear reporter, Vladimir Yavorowski, House of Julius Timoshenko. The level of humanity of society is determined by the level of attention given to people with disabilities to persons with disabilities. In many parts of the world, disabled people have been taken care of in the smallest detail. I mean, he can go to the store, and to the theater, and to his own house, and anywhere. In this respect, of course, we are of a cave age. Is there, after all, a project to work out some kind of government ideology to get local self-government involved here to solve this problem in what way? It's just very important, and we forget about it forever. Does the government think about it today, whether there are projects on this subject or not? And the second question. We're taking off the Zaporeznik production. What else will our disabled be offered? You understand well that without a motorized disabled person, living today is very and very difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A very good and right question, and I would like to answer it. Yes, you know that since 2003, when a year of people with disabilities have been assigned to Ukraine, many questions have arisen. And a council was set up where they entered the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the social organizations of the disabled, together with which we make all the decisions. And the very question of ensuring that people with disabilities have access to health care, education, social services, and cultural institutions has become a priority. You know, these are the issues that the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing deals with. State building standards have been prepared by the Ministry. Thus, in order for the construction of new buildings to be included in the design documentation on barrierlessness, it is essential that a government building standard be first prepared, that is to say, that these parameters are set for the purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u8	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u9	about pandas, about other tools that help a disabled person who moves into a wheelchair or on crutches to the social sector facility that needs it. Literally on Friday, last week, the Council was held at the Office of the Ministers of the Ukraine of Public Organizations of Disabled Persons, where the Ministry of Construction reported on how cooperation with local authorities is now taking place. And we divided that question into two parts. The first question is the construction of new buildings. Question two. This applies to the adjustment and adjustment of buildings that exist today. Because, you know, I took it from a community organization of people with disabilities, went out to our central, central field, Maidan Independence, got into a wheelchair, and they say, let's try it with you and see if today is the central area of Ukraine, if it's today the area that provides a barrier. And these curbs we have, you know, we have the impression that we have a country of brothels. Today, no disabled person who moves in a wheelchair can even pass through the city center of Kiev, I am not talking about the surroundings of Kiev, nor about other cities, villages, and villages. So this question, I support your question, is today our moral duty to the disabled, because today 2.5 million citizens of Ukraine. And with family members, it is almost 8 million Ukrainian citizens who are living with this problem every day, the problem of their health. I am convinced that, along with you, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, we will be able to do all we can in the near future if we have put European guidelines ahead of us, in addition to translating and implementing European standards of life. As far as cars are concerned, you know that today we have a free car insurance program. At the turn of the Department of Labour and Social Protection, we now have 158 thousand people with disabilities. If you are given budget allocations, 84 million dollars will be used for this program in the current year. If you figure out that the average price of a car is about 20,000, we can say that about 3-3.5 thousand people with disabilities are the ones that get cars this year. In view of the fact that we have 158 thousand cars in turn today, it is necessary to provide them with cars, we can just count 45-50 years to provide them with cars. So today we need and, in my opinion, we also need to deal with this issue with the public organizations of people with disabilities and somehow settle it, or let's move from providing specific cars to providing finance. I mean, not to get three and a half thousand people with disabilities with 58 cars this year, but let's give this money that's budgeted for in the State budget, we'll distribute it to mallards, and then they'll be able to use it for public transportation or to hire other cars. So here, here, I think we need to think with you so that we don't lie to people, make some kind of considered stately normal decision. As for cars, yes, by October of this year, the car factory Autozaz, and you can specify it in the national deputy Tariel Shakrovič Vasadze, Autozaz, was in repair, and the release of disabled cars ZZ 1102 begins again in October. By the end of this year, and we've had a meeting with representatives of the factory, we've got 51 million dollars now, and by January 1, all cars will have cars manufactured by the car factory ZAZ. There are no problems with making these cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u10	Dear colleagues and Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you've been answering for 10 minutes. We know that you have a very good problem, but to those who ask questions, please ask one question and please have one minute of the answer, because clearly you know the problem and you want to talk about it, but you're worried about the MPs who won't be able to ask. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I've had 1 hour in advance for answers, now it's been an hour and a half, so I'm using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u12	No, no, don't worry, you've got three hours here, so there'll be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u13	Oh, thank you, thank you. Then I'll try very briefly and yes, the thesis is to give answers. Questions from the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Does the government have information about the number and profile of privatized enterprises that successfully engage a person with limited physical capacity? And the second question. I'd like to answer both of you right now. How does the government feel about the failure to solve the employment problems of disabled people to privatize businesses? Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, you know that since the proclamation of Ukraine's independence, we have had large-scale privatization processes. If you analyze those enterprises that were previously privatized, there was virtually no contract to buy and sell, and there were no conditions for saving jobs. At present, we can say that at least 16 percent of the privatized businesses that are being marketed, we have 16 percent of the jobs that already exist. Moreover, if you analyze privatised enterprises and state enterprises, how they meet today the requirements of article 19-20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, which sets out the standards of employment for persons with disabilities, you know, this is what I want to provide, experience shows that in privatized enterprises, disabled people are employed more than in enterprises of state and municipal ownership. I could give you an example like this. First of all, all of these measures are envisaged when collective agreements are concluded with representatives of trade unions. At present, 83.5 percent of the 91,000 enterprises that are privatized, non-state ownership standards for the employment of disabled persons have been implemented. So that's a pretty high indicator. For example, there are 344 disabled people working at the Lugansk Tepelling Company. In the Poltava mining complex, 408 disabled people are provided with work. In an open stock company, Zaporoztal – 679 people with disabilities – 845 people work in an open stock company called Motor Sich. These are positive results, and I am convinced that we, together with all-U.S. employers' organisations and all-U.S. professional associations, will continue to do everything we can to implement the standards of employment of disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u14	Please, Winterfell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Ms. Mestipani Mikolayevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u16	Please, the mic of the townpan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u17	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, we know that the basic law that protects and helps people with disabilities is the “Basics of social protection for the disabled of Ukraine”. We know Articles 20 and 19, which tells us how many people should be set up and what penalties should be imposed for those who ignore the law. I have a question, though one has been said, but in this regard, several have been asked. First of all, what is the cost of a job, is the method of calculating it, what fines should enterprises give, if these fines were to be collected, how many were collected? And how much of these costs are used to create new jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u18	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Yes, Articles 19 and 20, it foresees, but I would like to emphasize and draw your attention not to "strafish sanctions" but to "administrative economic sanctions". Because we had a problem in our own time with the fact that when the law said "pure sanctions," it was practically impossible for the courts to take decisions and not take our cases into consideration on those enterprises that needed to be affected in order for them to provide employment standards. The law provides for a four - percent standard of jobs from where it came from. It's the ratio of the number of people with disabilities that exist today in Ukraine. If you take the experience of our neighbour countries so you don't think that we were making up a wheel. In Poland, for example, the disability standard is set at 5 percent, and in Poland we have 4 percent. In addition, since this indicator was installed, you know that the population of Ukraine has declined by 52 million. up to 46 million 700,000. Ukrainians today remain in Ukraine. [[Now the latest figures of the State Committee on Statistics]] So actually today, this is 5.4 percent. Nevertheless, the standard remains set at 4 percent. As far as the cost of one job is concerned. You know we asked the same question to the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Because in different areas we have different, so let's say, worth creating one job. For example, in the metallurgical industry, that's one price, in the coal industry -- another price, the enterprises that we have in the engineering industry -- that's another price. Taking private businesses also varies the cost of a job for a hairdresser and the cost of a job for a waiter. So this price is going to vary on the average by the numbers that exist from 10 grand. Up to 50,000. Conditional units. So if you translate it into a bracelet, this price is going to be 50 grand. It's up to $250,000. That's right. In the five years that the Social Protection Fund has been active to create new jobs, the fund has allocated 131 million. That's right. In view of the cost, some 10.5 thousand were created. Workplaces, so you're going to figure out that the average cost of one job under the Social Protection Fund is 13,000 dollars. If you translate it into a conditional unit, it's a little bit more than 2,000 conditional units. So that's not enough money. And I'll be honest and honest with you, you can ask that to professionals who worked in industry, in businesses, in 2.5 grand. Conditional units cannot be created. It is therefore necessary to increase assimilation and to create all working conditions for those with special needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u19	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u20	"Do you see the need to develop and approve a similar programme for 2007 and the following years by the Supreme Council of Ukraine? In this way and in the future, should we give sufficient attention to the problem of rehabilitation and employment of disabled people in Ukraine? How much funding should be foreseen in the 2007 State Budget if such a programme is to be developed and approved?" Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to inform you about, in my opinion, this very, very important detail. This program, called the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Limited Physical Capacities, was created during 2000-2001. And it worked from 2001 to 2005. That is to say, to this program and to its immediate implementation, governments such as the government of Yushchenka, the government of Kinakh, the government of Yanukovich, the government of Timoshenko, continued to implement this program, and completed the implementation of this program by the government of Yehanurov. That is, virtually all the governments that have been in Ukraine since 2000 and 2005 have joined this important programme. And so we got together with the public organizations of the disabled, and I asked them, "Let's go critically to this program and somehow try to give her an estimate." So how many percent of the items in this program are done and how many are not? You know, even when we're critical about this program, it turns out that between 85 and 90 percent of the parts of this program are considered by Ukrainian disability organizations to be executed. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that, you know, there are over 100 national programs in Ukraine, government programs, sectoral programs, regional programs. You know what, if each of these programs were done in the same way that this program was done in 85-90 percent, we would be living, in my opinion, completely in another country and by the standards of life we would be practically living, we wouldn't have had a problem getting closer to the countries of Europe. That's why, by the way, no amount of allocations in the State Budget have been made for this program for all five years directly, and this program and all the measures have been carried out at the expense and within the allocations provided for the respective ministries and offices in the budgets of one year or another. Today, according to the programme, we have already adopted a lot of laws and I would like to thank the Ukrainian National Deputies -- this is also about the employment that regulates the employment of people with disabilities who deal with the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. And today we need to put the laws of Ukraine into practice, in fact, implemented. Because when we started implementing this program, we didn't have a legislative field in a disability problem. That's why I'm counting, and I think, given this information, you're going to support me in the need to develop a new program today. We need to put into practice today those laws that were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2003 and 2004, 2005 and that now give us reason to remove this issue completely from the agenda and to bring the level of disability issues to a high level so that it is acceptable throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u21	Please, Hennaday the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u22	Dear Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you have made quite a point and a report, and your answers to the questions testify to the great work that you, as a minister, do in our country. But the question is. In recent times, mass media have reported a new category of children with disabilities in our country -- children with slow growth, physical growth. So the growth of children doesn't fit their age or anything like that. It's a very large disease, and it's a pretty large category of these kids in our country. For a day, 200 bracelets of medicine must be purchased abroad to treat these children. Does the Ministry know about this, or does the Ministry know anything, or do we point out that we have this problem. And it has something to do with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u23	I got it. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The question continued that Zaporozhi’s car factory was standing there and wouldn’t let the car out. I'd like to start with the second part of your question. I personally had meetings with the factory management and with the management “took it”. This year, we have another 51 million dollars to provide for disabled cars. There's a contract and prices are signed. By the end of this year, all cars needed for disabled persons will be received. The following year, we have 84 million dollars in the government budget. The contract for the following year is actually signed, because why, I'm saying it's actually signed, we haven't signed the specification and the price protocol yet. But the factory today made a commitment that it would work and carry out all supplies in accordance with the signed contract. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u24	Our system is starting to work. One minute to ask, one minute to answer. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u25	Right? But in the case of people with disabilities with slow growth, yes, we know this problem. And today we're working through the Social Protection Fund just to find the funds. These funds from the fund are directed at the rehabilitation centers of the disabled and already at the rehabilitation centres of the disabled in order to implement these programs, which you say only require medical support and others, about 200 dollars a day. We know this problem, and we are working hard to do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u26	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u27	Do you not think that one of the important factors behind failure to implement a national programme is duplicating the functions of the law directly by the Commission on the Activities of Enterprises and Organizations, Public Organizations of Persons with Disabilities? In your opinion, perhaps it is time to make the tax system simple and transparent for the disabled. [[The MP's faction of the Party of the Regions]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Yes, according to the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, we have two structures. The first structure is like a financial institution, the Social Protection Fund. So this is an organization that collects funds and administrative sanctions from enterprises that don't meet the standards of employment of people with disabilities, and they control the implementation of these standards. And there's the Commission on Business Activities, which is founded by social organizations of people with disabilities. In my opinion, this commission must exist. Why? Because, first of all, this committee has regional representations. It's different. The principle of building this commission is as follows. The chairman of the commission is the Minister and Head of the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So this is, let's say, our joint body of the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which controls the exact correctness of the use of the funds that today solves the issue of aid to enterprises and... enterprises that are the founders of the social organizations of the disabled, that is to say, this is a structure that actually makes it impossible to abuse in this area, so I would count on it to continue to have this commission, which is our joint special body, which is the head and head of the Committee of the Professional Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. And in addition, this commission is made up of two other Ukrainian national deputies. It's like parliamentary control over the use of funds by the Social Protection Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u28	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Dnipropetrovština. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, I cannot help but ask a question that concerns a large part of the hall and not just the hall. The problem that we are looking at today is most resonant without exaggeration in mining areas. At meetings of Regressor miners, disabled persons are constantly raising the issue of regressive payments, social protection, the problem of payments through enterprises where people are disabled, the problem of pensions for disabled miners before 1991 and after 1991. In recent times, it has been pointed out that the articles contained in the 2007 draft State Budget Act are interfering with the activities of voluntary social protection funds. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I know you care about this subject. I'm asking you to answer all over Ukraine -- the problem of regressor miners, how it will be resolved. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u30	Thank you. The country's honourable national deputies, the very right question and the problem, are concerned about the problem of the regressors. We have the Foundation for National Social Insurance in the event of an accident at work. If we remember the activities of this fund in 2003, 2004, 2005, the regression debt, if you remember and confirm my figures, in 2003 was about 700 million dollars under this fund, in 2004 the debt was reduced to 240 million dollars in regressive claims. And on January 1, 2005, we virtually came out with zero regressive debt in this fund. The problem that exists today is those court decisions that are made by moral courts. So we have problems today with regressive lawsuits, let's say, for physical defects we don't have today, we have a problem today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u31	So let me finish the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u32	The problem of paying for moral damage is that the courts, I can tell you, are making decisions and the numbers that are there, they're going to go to 150 today, and 200,000 dollars. Besides, what now, what are the cases in the courts? You know, this fund started to exist with us in 2001 at all. The courts are now deciding on the obligation to pay the funds for the injuries that occurred prior to 2001. In fact, we have more than one billion dollars of these decisions today. If they're taken into consideration, it's actually this social insurance fund, it's going to be destroyed and it's going to be bankrupt. That is why we turn to the country’s distinguished national deputies. Because it's a matter of paying for moral damage, we're going to have to be in a calm state, working with you if we're going to make a social insurance fund as a self-governing organization. By the way, this fund is managed by a non-government party. This fund is managed on the principles of tripartism, it includes 15 representatives from the trade side, Ukraine’s employers, and the government’s. And this self-governing organization, it, I'm sure, is useful and useful for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u33	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u34	At which stage of implementation of paragraph 6 of the program is the study of the relevance of the transfer of medical and social expert commissions to the Minpraci system. Dear National Deputies of Ukraine, if you look at the national programme that I am reporting to you today, there is this point 6 “Teaching the relevance of the transfer of medical and social expert committees”. The point is that by 1992 the medical and social expert commissions had been in the sphere of administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. After that, a decision was made, and these committees — the MCECs — are now in the area of the Ministry of Health. In 2003, an interdisciplinary joint commission was formed, comprising the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, which studied the issue perfectly and decided on the purpose of transferring these committees to Minprac. But the relevant bill was sent to the Supreme Council, but it happened that the Supreme Council did not even put the bill before consideration. We are now continuing to have this problem, because, in fact, today, the medical-social expert commissions, when they are in the Ministry of Health, they are assigning disability to a person, and after that, the disabled is becoming, they are in the care of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. So this is where we break this chain, so that those commissions that assign disabled people, at the same time, are interested not only in the assignment of disability, but also in the rehabilitation of these people with disabilities. Because if you look at the standards of the M.E.C., there's one very important point that, apart from the purpose of disability, the medical-social expert commissions will write every disabled person an individual rehabilitation program. That's the main thing. And the absence of most people with disabilities of this program today is causing a lot of problems. I thank you for your attention and support if you support the transfer of medical and social expert committees to the Minpraci management system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u35	Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u36	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, in recent times, the number of calls by disabled persons have increased considerably on the ability to receive special-purpose transport and, especially, upon the withdrawal of Decree No. 999 on the change of car security. You've already given the number 154 thousand 600 disabled people on the line. And you know very well that 47,000 of them are invalids of war and army, in which the prospect of getting cars does not satisfy. Therefore, your initiative to find alternatives to this problem is commendable. But do you not consider it necessary to change this order of care for disabled persons by automobiles in accordance with Cabinet Decision No. 999 concerning the abandonment of disabled cars in the family after the death of a disabled person and, in particular, the one received as humanitarian aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. I'll answer that question and I'd like to draw your attention to such a small detail. You know, before the decision was taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which just provided for the order of the provision of disabled persons by these cars, there was the same decision with another, let's say, orderly. That's it. That's an interesting detail. The number of the previous order 999. And now the decision that changed the order also came out with the number 999. And if we look at it further, and given what problems we have today with the provision of disabled people with special transport, and what we're basically deceiving people today, because we can never provide them with this car transport, we come to the idea that this could be the fault number of the decision, the first and the second, because if we flip it, some very, very large number comes out, which is probably and somehow affects this process, which is impossible for us to perform our duties to the citizens of Ukraine. As far as July is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u38	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u39	M.M. What about the July changes to this decision, right? So, you know, I have a very negative attitude, I just don't want to say any unkind words, because when they say it's necessary for that car that was used by a disabled person after his death to be returned to the office of work and social protection. After that, what will be the state of the car? At what cost does he have to recover, or how does a metallurgy pass on to another person with disabilities? In addition, there is a huge problem with those cars that we have disabled in humanitarian aid programs. Well, in fact, we actually know what these cars are talking about, and in most of their cars, these are the cars that are actually paying for some money, but the disabled person is paying for it. And when it comes to the fact that he's paying some money for this car, that he and his family are driving a car, and, God forbid, this person is dying, we have in the family, work administrations and social protection, as these used to be subunited by a "roadster," walking and removing these cars. I'm sure of it. I would like to be supported by the Ukrainian National Deputies that we have to cancel these, this Order No.999, in the near future. Perhaps there will be, thanks for your support, some other decision number will appear, and this may help to ensure that disabled people are provided with cars. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u40	Unfortunately, you are supported, not by the MPs, but by those who are interested. It would have been better if the MPs had applauded, they would have actually changed the verdict. Please. Oh, and the MPs backed up, so we'll change. Please, Kilinkar's Spiridon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u41	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Mikhail Nikolaevich, with a specific category such as persons with disabilities, should certainly work with trained personnel. Please tell us what educational institutions such professionals are trained, are they trained in particular in rehabilitating? And taking advantage of the fact that you are on Parliament's rostrum today, I literally came from the region yesterday and wanted to express the indignation of the veterans of the internal affairs authorities that these people received only 30 per cent of the pension in October. I would like to know what this is about, and who made that decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u42	Thank you. You know, I don't know this kind of information because according to the data we receive from the Ministry of Finance and the Pension Fund, we have a full day-to-day budget and full funding. Let me make this clear. As for the Pension Fund, Peter Stepanovich, you know, the Pension Fund we are overseeing today the operation of this fund, directing and managing its activities. According to the Pension Fund, I can tell you, a penny a day, what costs come to this fund, and how the pension is paid in a timely manner. As far as the pensions you're talking about are concerned, they are now funded and implemented by the State Budget of Ukraine. So let me clarify this question in the Ministry of Finance, and I'll give you an answer on a break. Yes, with regard to the training of rehabilitation specialists, I would like to thank again the Ministry of Education and Science, which has accepted this situation with understanding. Besides, the rectors of our national universities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u44	Adam Ivanovich, I have a request, maybe a minute and a half, because I have the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u45	I understand, but let us train others on you, I understand it will be difficult for you, but other ministers will already know. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u46	I'm willing to take part in the experiment, but somehow all the experiments start with me. And you too, Peter Stepanovich. So the first thing that happened was the National University of Dragomanov. Today, specialists who care for these problems are trained both at the Slovenian University and at the Chernigiv Institute, which is located in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and other universities, and at Kamenets-Podilski, and at the University of Chernobyl. So today, in fact, we were supported by education in the preparation of professionals of this level. Because we don't have a higher education institution in 2002, except for the Chernigian Institute, and we don't have social specialists. It was a huge problem to take a social worker when the unions did not prepare this specialty at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u47	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u48	What measures have been taken by the Government and the executive authorities at the sites and relevant ministries and offices of Ukraine to expand the network of early intervention centres and the social rehabilitation of children with disabilities and centres for medical and social rehabilitation of persons with limited physical capacity in cities, with population numbers of over 50,000. A man. Would it not be appropriate to create cities with a million people such as Kiev, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa, as well as Lviv and Simferopol, major centres for the medical and social rehabilitation of persons with limited physical capacity in a complex with large medical facilities and manufacturing facilities? This is a question of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. If you think back on the figures in my report, it was said that there are now 557 rehabilitation centres in Ukraine, including early rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities. If you look at this national program, which I report to you today from the rostrum, we read here that at the time that this program was adopted in Ukraine, there were 44 rehabilitation facilities, of which only 23 were professional and labour rehabilitation. So let's think about two figures, 23 institutions that were involved in the professional and medical rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and 557 institutions that are now in operation and existing in Ukraine. In fact, we now have these institutions, they are in the sphere of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports. We also have these facilities, 61 of them in the Ministry of Health and 100 in the Ministry of Education. We don't have a problem today. We have a network of these disability rehabilitation centers. We have two problems. Problem one. This is the funding of these centres, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its time, had four drafts of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets, which envisaged that funding for rehabilitation centres for disabled persons and early rehabilitation centres for disabled children should be made from the State budget of Ukraine. But this decision was not that adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor was it even brought to the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At present, there is a standard that no less than 50 percent of the funds that we have in the Social Protection Fund should be used for early rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities. And if you weigh the numbers, this year it's 146 million. The sum is 73 million. The money needs to be directed towards early rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities. But more than 40 million. They don't need it. So this rule works for us, actually, 31 million. The bracelets that exist today in this fund's accounts, but we can't use them for other measures and support for other categories of people with disabilities because we need to change this rule. I am convinced that in the 2007 State Budget project, appropriate adjustments will be made with the support of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u49	Please, in writing. Lips? Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u50	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Mr. Secretary, in your interesting report so far, there is no answer to the main question: why did the national programme end in 2005 and not continue, why did it not become permanently operational in accordance with the International Convention and even with the President's decree? Next. You mention in a decree that created the International University for Human Development for Persons with Disabilities. It's a non-State university. The question is: Why did the state not build the hostel and not give the university a penny of financial support, nor did it set aside the land? It's the abuse of the disabled to you. And the result, out of 2 million 500,000 people with disabilities in five years, 9,000 were trained in 1-4 levels. It's a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. You know what I might say, I don't know if Mr. Talanchuk is here, the rector of the International National University for Human Development, Ukraine. So he would confirm to you that almost 100 percent of the funding that this university will receive for the training of students with disabilities is from the Social Protection Fund. These costs were received in 2003 and 2004, 2005 and 2006. And I'm pretty sure that we have this budget for 2007 as well. That is, funding for training at this university is financed by the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. Because, you know, the Social Protection Fund funds, they refer to concessions to special fund funds. As for the extension of this program. I've already given an answer. The point is that this program was created when it was not available and there was a legislative field for resolving these issues. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u53	To date, all the tasks that were assigned to this program are implemented in specific laws. These laws were also adopted by the national deputies of Ukraine. Here are the present and Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, these are the laws that settled the question of employment. The ability of people with disabilities today to account for the public employment service to obtain employment. This allows us today to foresee a programme and a draft of a corresponding decision of the Cabinet of Ministers is being prepared, programmes of already economic interest for employers in creating new jobs for people with disabilities. So these costs, they're going to have grants to create new jobs, they're going to come from a social protection fund. And there's a lot of other money like that that we already have regulated by law. We just have to follow the law. And I'm convinced that since 2007, we've been showing, we're showing an example of how people feel about people with disabilities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u54	Yes, please. Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u55	“What was done in the four years of the program for the rehabilitation and employment of miners who were injured in production?” This is a question for the Committee on European Integration. You know, the information that we have today is that in 2002-2005, the total number of victims who, according to the appointments of the medical and social expert commissions and the medical advisory commissions, were appointed to rehabilitate 222 people from the miners. The number of victims who applied for support was 46. And the cost of their retraining is 94,000 470 dollars. You know that this funding is being made out of the National Social Insurance Fund in an accident in production, the necessary costs are now available to us, and with the aim of making effective use of public funds aimed at professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons from work disability, today it is composed in all regions of Ukraine of quadripartite contracts and is a party to the conclusion of these contracts: the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, the Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents, the State Employment Centre and the General Employment and Social Protection Fund. In fact, we are now fixing, controlling and providing the necessary resources to Ukrainian citizens, including miners, who have suffered injury to production, retraining services and the employment of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u56	Yes, please, I can't see, Dry Jaroslav. Is it? Please, Kee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u57	Please pass on the word of Jaduh Vasil Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u58	Jaduh's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u59	Dear Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, indeed, is being considered today because it is a human grief, a human hope that the men of the State will finally pay attention to this problem of financial security. I fully support the idea that, through the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the social rehabilitation centres of children with disabilities need to be allocated through the budget first. But my question is. Employment of disabled people today, what your vision of the mechanisms developed by the Ministry of Labour to improve employers’ incentives to employ physically, physically, and physically. Because in the yard, we know mostly private property and a huge problem in rural areas? What Is Your Vision?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u60	Thank you. The country's distinguished national deputies are a very interesting question, because today's standard is a standard for employment of disabled people -- 4 percent of the average number of employees, and this account number is taken per year. That is, companies with 8 to 25 employees provide for the employment of one disabled person, all businesses with more than 25 employees, with 4 percent. And today the question is that those enterprises that don't employ this standard of disability, they pay administrative and economic sanctions on the average wage on this enterprise that didn't meet this standard. And so a lot of Ukrainian national MPs were taking the initiative, including the people's deputy Matvienkov, I don't see him, just now he's out, they've been asking us to predict two mechanisms. Mechanism one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u61	Please don't turn off the microphone anymore, we won't experiment anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u62	Thank you. Mechanism one. In order for those enterprises, for example, to be a metallurgical plant or mine, we can't try there. Here comes the national deputy of Matvienkov, and I'm just talking about the issue of 4 percent regulation in the employment of disabled people right in the metallurgical industry and mines. We can't demand that miners come down to the mine, can we? So today we are proposing that an enterprise that has a standard of 4 percent be included in its composition as a management association to include an enterprise that specializes in the social organization of persons with disabilities, and that the number of persons with disabilities that work there be included in the standard of the main enterprise, and that we know this question once and for all. The second option we're going to offer is I think it's going to be right. The company gives its order to a disabled company. These are also companies called UTOS, UTOG, companies of disabled people’s organizations. And that amount of the order that's funded by the main company, and the number of people with disabilities involved in the execution of this order, this number is counted in the disabled standard for this employer. In addition, the third option that we are working with the Ukrainian National Deputies is the possibility of getting employers' subsidies to create new jobs. In fact, we have already settled this issue in the legislative plan, and in the normative plan, so that it is possible from the Social Protection Fund to finance for employers the creation of new jobs for people with disabilities. I'm convinced that we're going to find an understanding of these options for getting out of this situation, that it's for the benefit of businesses and organizations of people with disabilities, as well as for those enterprises of ours that are in non-state ownership and that are not actually able to actually employ 4 percent of the average number of people with disabilities today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u63	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u64	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, in the change to the 2005 budget, perhaps with the aim of making the lives of the disabled more happy. Taxes on the added cost were also applied to light cars for special purposes for disabled persons. Unfortunately, neither the government of Timoshenko nor the government of Yehanurov took advantage of paragraph 5 of the Tax Law on Added Costs of 5.1.4 and did not bring disabled cars to those goods that were deprived of value added tax. In that call, I introduced a bill with a group of national MPs that would propose to cancel the added value tax on disabled machines. Veto offered to finance minister Pinzenik, we didn't beat the veto. In this call again with a group of national MPs -- Sergey Burak, Teryohin, Svetash -- I am again introducing such a bill. Please state the position of your ministry regarding the fact that cars produced in Ukraine are exempt from the value added tax. First question. And the second question. Complaints are coming from places about inadequate sanitation provision for disabled persons during 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u65	Thank you, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I'll start with a second question. Yeah, we don't have enough money for sanatorium treatment today. Besides, and you know this problem, for those citizens who don't use their right to go directly to a sanatorium, and you know these amounts of compensation that they're going to get for not having this sanatorium. This is a problem that we know, and this is a problem that we are looking at and solving today. Regarding the value added tax, this is more about the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance. But I'm just standing here as a representative of the government, because today is Government Day, I want to tell you my own home. First of all, we have experience when we were working on the Zaporozhye Automobile Plant Act, a special law that offset the value added tax to this law, the income tax and the land payment tax. The company is ready to work in these conditions, it has already prepared mechanisms, credits, debits, VAT, for businesses that supply VAT products there. The final product of the factory is a car, with no tax on added value settled. So in fact, today's problems in order to re-establish this company in terms of, let's say, promoting the state to make the price of a car missing VAT, excise duty, there's other ingredients, it would lead to first, I'm convinced that the price of a car is going down. And so if we have a budget allocation of 84 million dollars, it's just that next year we could not provide 3,000 people with disabilities with cars and 4 thousand people with disabilities with cars. But it's already a matter of national deputies of Ukraine and the finance ministry of profile. Come on, we're ready to now look at the State Budget project, have a work meeting and find an understanding on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u66	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u67	Were the funds of international organizations involved in the program? If so, how much was spent, and for what purposes? Yes, the cost of the United Nations Development Programme was involved in the implementation of this program, which is about the UN, and also the cost of the International Labour Organization. They were involved in these international organizations, first of all, modular software techniques, modular learning programs. These are programs that allow you to teach yourself to a disabled person. They are formed with the Ministry of Education and Science in such a way that it is, as it were, a program of self-learning of a disabled person who can, while in domestic conditions, learn one or another profession. This will be an important question. We've got about $30,000 allocated for this. And these 11 modules are now working well. We also have at the State Rehabilitation Centre in Lutiza, which was also built for the promotion of the International Labour Organization, in fact, it's a methodological training centre for professionals who are already working at the 557 rehabilitation centres in Ukraine. This center was also operational, and it is working today to support international structures, including the International Labour Organization. I am grateful to the organizations that provide timely assistance to those important social measures that primarily concern people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u68	Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! “Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, Suškević. I have two questions. First. You said five times and praised the Ministry of Education for implementing the National Professional Rehabilitation Program. In fact, according to the program, that is the priority of public policy, and education is now available to the disabled. That's the first question. And the second question. I'd like you to comment and clarify the situation. What is being prepared is, as I know, the employers and the government, and the unions about the reduction in the quota of four percent disability employment. Is that true? And what you know about this and your comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. In pedagogical and psychology there is, let's say, a mechanism when you praise a person, and it starts to worry about that question, and then even more qualitatively and persistently, the ministry works. I am convinced that most of these compliments were given in advance. But with regard to daily cooperation. We have it right between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science. You do everything at the same time, you break things very quickly, you can dream about it, but it's hard enough. And as a person who knows the problems of disabled persons directly in Ukraine, you know that there are fewer than five or ten years, or even fifteen years, for us to get to standards, European standards of living for people with disabilities. But that's what we're going to try to do. Well, you've done a lot of work. You know, we have a lot to offer. But I am convinced that both the Ukrainian National Deputies and our social organizations support the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in order not to give God, we have never even raised a hand to eliminate a four-percent quota or a four-percent quota for the employment of persons with disabilities. Why? Today, thanks to this standard, we can say that 360,000 people with disabilities are employed and working today. Let's think about the numbers, two and a half million and 360 thousand, and how much more people need to be employed. If the employer doesn't have a legislative standard, well, you know, no one can, no one will, if it doesn't have an economic, let's say, interest, nobody's going to deal with and embrace this problem. That's why I'd like to ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to keep the 4%. This rule will give us the opportunity, by 2009, to make the situation so that we don't have 360,000 working disabled people with 2 and a half million, but there's going to be about 1 million working disabled people with 2 and a half million. First of all, it'll enable people to get their pension at the same time, and help with their disability, and their family will have another income, which is a salary. Let's work better with this and I'd like to ask Valery Mikhailovich, including, he's taking part in this issue, so that enterprises of the social organizations of people with disabilities and other businesses are implementing Ukrainian legislation on minimum wage. Do you know that we have separate cases where we pay at 50, or 60, or 70% of the wages from the level of the statutory minimum? So this is an absolutely negative phenomenon that we have to deal with. Today, people with disabilities who work in businesses need to be brought out so that they can receive an average or average salary in Ukraine. I'm convinced that the Ukrainian people's deputies will support this initiative by maintaining a 4% standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u71	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u72	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Question: How is the right to additional guarantees for the employment of single mothers who have children with disabilities listed in article 5 of the Employment of the Population Act implemented, including how many jobs are prohibited for them and employed by citizens of the so-called category? Is there a denial of their employment? And how many fines have been collected on the basis of the refusal of admission to work of such a category within the set quota? Dear national deputies, yes, the Ukrainian Employment Act provides guarantees for such a category of Ukrainian citizens with regard to their social protection. And these categories include women who have children under the age of six, single mothers who have children under the age of 14 and who have children under the age of 14. [[I can't say the word "mother"]] Mothers who have children with disabilities. So these guarantees are now virtually implemented in Ukraine. For these women, according to 2006 figures, 19,000 200 jobs have been banned, with 9,000 women employed during the first half of the year. In fact, we are now banned by almost twice as many jobs for this category of women as they have agreed to and are employed. The analysis we're doing gives us reason to say that there might be two choices. The first option is that we've blocked more places than they need. The second option may be that 10,000 jobs that these women have not agreed to work may be paid and other conditions do not meet people’s wishes. Because it's people's desires that should be paramount. And we're going to do this analysis, and I think we're going to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the near future. As far as sanctions are concerned, we have an inspection to monitor compliance with employment legislation. Thus, during 2006, this inspection revealed 82 violations of Ukrainian legislation in force with regard to the refusal to employ citizens for prohibited jobs and penalties for owners amounting to 169 thousand dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u73	Please, Valentin Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u74	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, here you were asked about the liquidation of health - related debt. Nevertheless, please tell me, how real, I mean, really, real changes have taken place in solving this very acute, very complicated problem since the creation of the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents? And did they happen if, as far as they're aware of these changes, you want to know the specific numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national MPs, I want to remind you that first of all, it's positive. The Supreme Council has adopted laws on the basis of social insurance in Ukraine, which has established that we have moved from the social security system to the social insurance system. We have four social insurance funds in place today: the Pension Fund, the Unemployment Fund, the Temporary Labour Loss Fund and the Accident Fund. So, is there any benefit to the activities of these funds? I already told you that first, we had a constant problem with regressive payments in Ukraine because you know that they paid their time out of the State Budget. When we created the Social Insurance Fund, that is, we made ourselves an ally and an employer and a hired employee in order to account for the costs of the 67 classes of occupational risk, and the citizens were protected by a hundred percent of the accident in the event of his disability or other injury that he might receive on production. In addition, remember when these positions were financed from the State Budget before the fund was created, they were actually copies. So the person for work disability was getting a hundred dollars. A family who suffered grief and lost their father or mother in production actually received a penny. In addition, there was a huge debt on the regression of their payments. After we have created a social insurance fund in case of an accident in production in literally recent years, we have managed to eliminate the regression of their payments that were created before this fund existed, then to settle the debt that arose within the fund itself and under the fund's budget for the following year. The Fund's budget is projected to be $2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. No money, no budget, no budget deficit. And the sums I'd like to give you today are paid by this fund. For example, there was grief in Ukraine when you knew that people were killed in the mine. Thus, during the two days of the family of miners who lost their parents, they received the five - year salary that was paid once and for all. In addition, children were assigned pensions after the loss of a caregiver. The size of these pensions is 2.5-3 thousand. A month's worth of money. So you can see that the results of this fund are saying that this is a reliable protection for Ukrainian citizens and their families from the disaster that might happen. We all walk under God and each of us can see a glass ceiling in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to say that thanks to this fund, all the citizens of Ukraine, including the Ukrainian national MPs, are protected in their entirety from all the cases that can give us the lives and costs that exist in this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u76	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u77	Yes. The written question is short. Is it not considered appropriate for the government to establish regional registers of disability data as a result of accidents in manufacturing and occupational diseases that have been or are undergoing professional rehabilitation in the regional rehabilitation centres and in the All-U.S. Occupational Rehabilitation Centre, as well as in the already employed victims, a database on the availability of jobs that use labour market demand for the purpose of further effective employment of persons with disabilities? Yes. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, this is a question of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. I've already talked about those regional agreements that are quadrilateral today, we're building a database. Today, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has the only state registry. There is now an already active electronic information base in the production company Ucrprotez, which includes the entire number of Ukrainian citizens with health problems who are serving in this company. You know, these are huge programs that are doing this production today. Two hundred thousand persons with disabilities are now being promoted annually at the expense of social protection for persons with disabilities. 220,000 pair of special shoes are being purchased by the firm Crosprotez for persons with disabilities at the expense of the Social Protection Fund. 20,000 breast prosthetics, 22,000 wheelchairs, about 100,000 ortes. So there's a huge range of production, a production union called Croprotez, the only question that's worrying right now, and I'm convinced that we're going to be addressing the national deputies of Ukraine, that it's a matter of public procurement on this enterprise, because imagine that 200,000 prosthetics, which are individual, especially the prosthetics of the limbs, are individualally dependent on which ball it's going to be made, whether it's passive or it's active. Like today, it's either 220,000 tenders, or it's one contractor. And imagine, 200,000 people who need prosthetics, and who are going to these places today, this prosthetics at the stations, have to move to some separate city, or the enterprise that wins this tender. That is, a problem that today makes it impossible for the timely and complete prosthesis of the disabled to affect their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u78	Please, Mikola Danilin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u79	Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Mikhail Nikolayevich, you have very much and quite well described the work of the Social Insurance Fund as a type of accident in production. But to date, in the ministry and in Kabmin, this idea of pooling all the funds into one. I want to mention among the positive points that you have noted, the work of this regress fund, including the rehabilitation of those who have suffered injuries at work. To date, this fund is collecting money and is implementing programmes to rehabilitate these persons with disabilities. I would like to hear how you feel about this association and whether there is any merit in that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. There is merit in this union. You know, this is the idea that we've had in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2003, you remember the Law of Ukraine, which was the only social contribution. This idea is now being implemented in the draft Ukrainian law on the single system of collection and payment of social insurance contributions. What this is about is the depth of the problem. You know, there's a lot of complaints and people's deputies in Ukraine and employers' organizations in Ukraine that we have a huge burden on the Labour Fund, i.e. the 41.5 percent that employers pay along with hired workers in the 4 social insurance funds -- that's the limit that the employers' interest in white wage displays ceases to exist. I mean, to show the official salary and not to issue the salary in envelopes. So I'm asking you, you asked questions. Imagine, in 2007, we're going to have to introduce another kind of compulsory government social insurance -- that's health insurance. So the needs that are being calculated today, they're saying that we're going to need another 4 percent, at least 3.5 percent, to increase the workload on the Labour Pay Fund. Questions. Or we could go this intensive way, that is, to have five funds, each fund will have its own administration, starting with Kiev and ending up with areas and areas, each one will be in action. Why do we have five administrative structures that collect five contributions, five structures that administer these contributions? If the logic of things makes one single social contribution, the contribution is administered by one structure. The employer will not run into five trust funds with help and provide help. And in general, we plan to introduce. - Tickets. In addition, we plan that, electronically, the employer can report to these funds by electronic signature, so that there will be a completely transparent operation of the funds that would not allow the misuse of these funds, and also that our employers will not be caught up in our daily checks by different institutions. Because you know how many institutions we have today that have the right to verify activity. Let us somehow build this system, simplify its administration, and have the funds available to us so that next year we can put in place a mandatory national health insurance without increasing the workload on the payroll fund. I thank you if you'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u81	Please, in writing, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u82	I'll do my best in a very short time. In view of the fact that professional rehabilitation and the further employment of disabled people, integration into society is an important component of Ukraine's State policy on disabled people, is it not at the time of the development of the Cabinet of Ministers of the new state programme, which concerned not only the employment of people with disabilities but also the attention of 284,000 people with mental disabilities and mental retardation? I want to point out that integration in society must be common to all without separating any of the categories, because if we start to highlight some of the features of integration of people there with faults in the support mechanism, with impaired eyesight, with hearing defects, then I don't think it would be appropriate to do that. And that's why, today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and this is the Order of July 5, 2006, is foreseen by 2009 at the expense of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities to create no less than 10,000 jobs for persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u83	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u84	Mikola Sodový, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine May I have the floor to the Afghan Socialist?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u85	Please, the Red Riding Hood microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u86	Thank you. The Red Cross, the Socialist Party. Mikolo, Mikolaiovich, 13 July 2005 The Cabinet of Ministers led by Julia Volodymyrovna was adopted by Decree No. 577 on how to use budget funds by public organizations. You said in your report today that you added solid amounts to the budget support of public organizations. Including the disabled. But it's very clear that this instruction forbids these social organizations, in fact, what they need to do is help people. It's defined that you can use the money in symposia, at the festival, at anything but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, yes, there is a problem, because these funds go to ensure the activities of the social organizations of persons with disabilities to ensure their statutory activities. And everyone understands differently what the phrase “status activity” means. I know exactly what you mean. I'm convinced that we're dealing with this issue in the near future, because we've done it before -- in 2003 and in 2004 -- and we haven't had any problems with it. Moreover, the use of funds for what you predict is not prohibited by the Ukrainian Budget Code. Besides, I'd like to say the following numbers. If, in the current year, 27 million dollars are available for the provision of activities, statutory activities of social organizations of persons with disabilities, you know that the 2007 State Budget project foresees an increase of 10 million and 37 million dollars, which I believe will create the necessary conditions for improving the functioning of the social organizations of persons with disabilities, which will reflect in turn that the government, together with you, will make decisions that improve the lives of citizens who restore the confidence of Ukrainian citizens in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u88	And thank you for taking almost two hours. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We've got another 10 minutes from the committee and 30 minutes to talk. Can we do this all the time? Okay, thanks. Then, please, Peter Stepanovich 10 minutes and then 30 minutes of discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, the practical implementation of the existing legislative framework in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of disabled people is one of the components of state policy on disabled people. The supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its structural unit — the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons — in the area of social, economic, legal, constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection of persons with disabilities — are important in this context. At the outset, I want to make one of the main points of the report. People with disabilities, people with special needs, at least a large part of them, require indirect financial assistance to live in the budget and the ability to earn their own income for themselves and their families. Thus, not only do they provide themselves materially but they also fully adapt to society. And the conditions for this are that you and I are obliged to create. Although the term of the national program of professional rehabilitation and employment for persons with limited physical capacity for 2001 - 2005 has ended and much has been done to implement it, what has been discussed in government information and still a host of problems remain in this area that need to be solved. Let me focus on them. In particular, such a transition with the past call to action is the legislative order of financing the network's activities created to implement the national rehabilitation programme of their disability centres and children with disabilities. Because the current practice of financing them at the expense of the target, the Social Protection Fund, is nonsense. In other words, Ukraine is acting on the principle of saving the drowning -- the cause of the drowning hands themselves. I'm sure that's not right. A similar project to amend Ukraine’s Budget Code has already been tabled in the current call by a group of Ukrainian national deputies from various factions. I hope that, when the bill is passed in Parliament by the government and the budget committee, the maximum contribution will be given to this process. Next, the issue of the transport of disabled persons by special transport equipped with wheelchair lifts, the organization of thematic radio and television broadcasts on the lives of disabled persons and the implementation of public policy on them have moved from government. of Government Day of February 11, 2003. With regard to the ratification of the agreement on the introduction of educational, scientific and cultural materials, the so-called Florence Convention, although the need for its ratification was still at parliamentary hearings in April 1998, we are talking about this again today, and again only about speeding up this process. I especially want today, October 10, when the entire world community celebrates the International Day of Mental Health, to draw attention to our fellow citizens with mental illness and mental retardation. In Ukraine, according to the All-U.S. Social Organization, the Coalition for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Persons with Intellectual Inadequacy 284, including 88,000 disabled persons with mental retardation. Regrettably, in their time, the developers of the National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities focused their efforts solely on people with disabilities, taking into account the interests of people with mental disabilities. That's not supposed to happen. So these calculations need to be taken into account in order to avoid continuing to make such mistakes, especially in view of the concept of social adaptation of mentally retarded persons approved on August 25, 2004, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made appropriate changes to article 19 of the basic law on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities in Ukraine for the purpose of reconciliation and article 5 of the Law on Psychiatric Assistance (for the establishment of mandatory employment quotas in enterprises, institutions and organizations for the employment of persons with disabilities as a result of a mental disorder. Next, in the context of the Government's declared topic, it is important to provide for the process of employment of persons with disabilities by providing equal opportunities for persons with disabilities with productive and adequately paid work in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, number 159, of the International Labour Organization, other international legal instruments on this issue need to improve the range of valid legislative acts governing public policy in the field of employment. Thus, a number of laws have been adopted during the previous call for initiatives by national MPs, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on occupational and labour rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, the exercise by persons with disabilities of the right to work, the taxation of rehabilitation institutions for disabled persons and children with disabilities, the improvement of the provisions of the Law on the Fundamental Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, and so on. These are the legal principles for solving the problem of employment. Regrettably, the government has unwarrantedly delayed the process of preparing them for the implementation of the necessary regulations. This artificially inhibits and inhibits this process. As for their practical application, this was the purpose of the committee hearing in November 2005 on the subject “Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Realities and perspectives.” Finally, it is very important to start a practical implementation of a number of concepts for the education of people with disabilities, as education lays the foundation for quality employment. It's for me. jobs are sometimes life itself, not just a source of physical survival. Being like everyone is happiness. Sadly, we sometimes forget about it in our daily troubles. Rehabilitation plays a major role in the process of restoring and preserving health, material security, and increasing the work and social activities of persons with limited physical and mental capacity. And with the adoption of the Disability Rehabilitation Act in Ukraine, which is a logical extension of the national programme, a comprehensive approach to the rehabilitation process has been initiated. But today, in the context of the legislative novelties proposed by the Ukrainian National Budget Bill 2007 to halt the payment of monetary compensation in the implementation of individual programmes for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, there is considerable concern about the continued existence of this law in general. There is a need to ensure that public support is provided to enterprises of the social organizations of persons with disabilities, including tax preferences. As a result of our review by our Committee on the National Budget of Ukraine for the following year, the deadline is set for the Committee on Budget Affairs. Hopefully, they will be counted. Finally, given that the professional rehabilitation and further employment of disabled people, their adaptation and integration into society are important components of the national policy on disabled people and given the number of problems that need to be addressed after the end of the National Programme of Education and Employment, I consider it appropriate to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with this task, perhaps by depriving the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. disabled persons with mental disorders and mental activity, with adequate budgetary funding. The information and suggestions expressed during the discussion will be generalized and taken into account by the committee when the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is finalized as a result of the Ukrainian Government Day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, we sign up for the performance. First, it comes from factions. Yes, now please register independently of belonging to factions. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Danilino, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u91	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! We are discussing a problem that is very important to all those who realize that it is a huge humanitarian problem. This was said in a report about many events that took place during the years 2003-2004, less said that it did not take place during the years 2005 and 2006. I would like to draw attention to the fact that President Yushchenko of Ukraine has practically started his work by issuing a directive on ensuring unhindered access for persons with limited physical capacity. This is a very large document that needs to be carried out by more than one government. And by the way, then, in 2005, an additional plan was adopted to ensure unhindered access, and this applied to objects of social infrastructure, transport and all without exception to the central executive and local authorities. Much of this work was done in 2005 partly in 2006, but not all of it, and here, I think, is going to be an opportunity for all the representatives of the public organizations that are doing this monitoring. The government should also be guided in its activities and in its second Presidential Decree, which dealt with the practical provision of social, medical and labour rehabilitation for persons with disabilities. It is in this decree that it is necessary to approve the State’s typical programs for individual rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. This is big money, I'm not going to say that the previous government has managed to deal with this problem, but make it look like it's not wrong now, either. I also think that the social bloc of the government is not going to deal with this problem alone, because it's big money and that's why individual programs need an active participation from the government's financial and economic bloc. Because if there is no money, the decree and the law, by the way, about individual rehabilitation programs will remain empty texts. I am also convinced that the problems of disabled people will be largely solved by social organizations, that is, people with limited physical capacity themselves. The task of ensuring not only the executive but also the parliament’s equal access to all social organizations that combine the disabled with the budget and other resources provided by the Ukrainian State. Convinced that this is a self - sufficient task to be done. As for other problems, I think to a large extent they are reflected correctly. The only thing that stopped in 2003 was the work of the Social Protection Fund. Look at the conclusion of the CD in 2004, and look at the abuses that were then. Parliamentary control must therefore be strengthened, but it must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Mikola Danilin, Socialist faction. After him Zibenko, he's handing over Matthew. Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished voters, the issue of vocational training and employment for Ukrainian citizens, are the main issues of development as individuals. No law protects or supports a person who has professional knowledge and skills to work, to provide for his wealth. We all understand that this is a question of the socio-economic problems of Ukraine. Thus, if Ukraine does not have a clear or less constructive answer to the question of professional activity of the healthy population, is there an answer to important issues of autonomy, the activity of citizens with limited physical capabilities? No, there is no such answer. Because the government's information doesn't even refer to the number of citizens on which the national program was calculated. Why did it happen that it was in the priorities of executive power during this period? People's questions, the question of introducing new technologies, or the question of a new professional rehabilitation structure? I would like to emphasize that professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities is what will today keep from destroying specific tens of thousands of families, ensuring the old age of parents of today's disabled children. Another important question is the education of people with disabilities and the training of personnel for rehabilitation. I'm deeply convinced that the real state of things is even worse than the numbers of information and analysis materials. How many young people with disabilities are now being trained in the 1-4 level of accreditation education institutions. According to this data, that's two percent of the total number of young people who are learning. Is this an approach to the fate of tens of thousands of families with children with disabilities? What's more, because in Parliament, he's trying to convince the government that it's a veiled reality. What is the cost of claiming that young people with disabilities are being taught? In order to successfully introduce vocational training for young people with disabilities, I consider it necessary to combine at least two basic components to support the minimum result. That is, creating not only conditions for learning but also professional adaptations for young people. In this case, at least two or three years to achieve success. Education should not only lay the foundations for quality employment, as stated in the information and at least provide employment. The perspective of any case should be the staff of specialists for professional rehabilitation. In five years, this field of science, methodology, and training did not form a new professional group. I mean, who's going to be doing the work tomorrow directly, the professional training of people with physical limitations is unknown. And that's the main argument for disgruntled execution of the national program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u94	And thank you. Please, Matthew Valentine, the Communist faction, prepare for Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots. Today we are convinced that Parliament has done absolutely well on the first day of government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call to consider such a acute social problem as the problem of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with limited physical capacity. That's not the way it can be, because today our nation has seriously indebted to our citizens' category. This is confirmed by the large number of appeals that come to the faction of Communists from the disabled. This is also evidenced by the sharpness with which they question the problem of employment. As we know, today a healthy person is very often unable to find a job, much less a decent job. In many cases, it is virtually impossible for a disabled person to do so. This is what some managers sometimes use. They either seek to deny the disability or to employ it fictitiously or to create even conditions that can be called softly speaking, simply cable. All of this shows that we haven't really protected the disabled. In our view, this can be done through, and only through, state support for enterprises, social organizations of people with disabilities. We need to create some preferences for him, including through the rules of the state budget, otherwise they will simply be destroyed in a competitive fight. As an example, we can give some of the positive figures given to the national MPs today. Over the past five years, 88 million dollars have been used for the technical refitting of social organizations of disabled persons, businesses, and 66,000 dollars per year per company. In the current year, this state support, by the way, has dropped to 43,000 dollars and that funded only 13 percent, I mean, one and a half million from 11.6. And by the way, there are a lot of examples like this. The Communist faction believes that today’s Government Day should end with a decision to create a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. To prepare, Siulski is handing over Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, members of the government, are invited! It seems that very recently, in this sessional room and for years, there have been very hot discussions at the sessions of the professional committees about the main legislative initiatives on employment for people with some physical problems regarding their social integration. Time has shown the rightness of those who advocated the speedy rehabilitation of such people because of their involvement in socially beneficial work. I'll tell you more. From the experience of Zaporozhye enterprises, we now see that among public assets, even among artists in the first place, such people show everyone, including a healthy example of how to deal with problems and how to fight for their better destiny. So all the talk about 4% of the employment rate is going to stay behind forever. In order of the day-to-day development of measures to encourage the employer to employ persons with disabilities. As we know, Bill 3483 was accepted, signed early in 2006. In addition to the employer’s contribution to the creation of special jobs, the law provides for the granting of unemployment benefits to disabled persons, and I very much hope that such assistance will be provided as of 1 January 2007. Returning to the government, leading the social insurance funds of professionally trained people with social work experience, gives us the opportunity to expect fertility in the further cooperation of all branches of government, that the sums of the implementation of the national programme will become a transition to a new, higher quality of our activity when we improve the rehabilitation system of people with disabilities. And we have a lot to work on. Just a question to the government: Who should be responsible for the organization of such work? We do not have a single state structure, nor do we have a problem with the return of savings. We have these two questions, as in the well - known poem of the Russian poet: “Who is responsible for all this? It's like a lot of people. None at all.” Is that not why the employment program is being fully carried out? In addition, after orange clearance, there has been a weakening of control over the targeted use of the social protection fund, the need for further modernization of the existing rehabilitation network, the need for effective monitoring of the implementation of laws, regulations, decrees, such as the introduction of a so-called barrier-free architecture, the inclusion of special trains, timely provision of disabled persons with special vehicles, and improved sanitation. The parliamentary faction of the Party of Regions, which, by the way, in this session hall represents 90 percent of the hall as opposed to some who have recently spoken very loudly about the love of this issue, and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour considers it appropriate to develop a programme of action for the years to come on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u98	Yes, please, Valeriy Suškević, faction of the “Timoshenko Block”. Get ready for Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u99	Thank you. Faction “Bloka Julia Timoshenko”, Suškević. Dear colleagues, I understand the rules are very difficult, three minutes. So I'm not going to be able to say anything, but I want to say about today and yesterday. The program of professional rehabilitation and employment for disabled people is yesterday 2005. Today is a draft of the State Budget, which states "restrictions to all working persons with disabilities". Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to the government. Remember, pensioners are more than just pensioners. All disabled people are pensioners. It's been forgotten!? And 360,000 people with disabilities who are working today at risk of the 2007 State Budget project, because there are restrictions on the work of pensioners, that's the first. The other one. I can't help but say it's a complex problem. And when the Minister of Labour, social policy, stood here today, I want to say it wrong. Today the government had to have a minister of transportation, a minister of architecture, a minister of education who had gone and disappeared was wrong. The minister of health, that is, the reality of the program, is these ministers. Is there a minister of education? None. There's one Papiev. Dear colleagues, today we're talking about the employment of disabled people and we're talking about the execution of the program. I want to say that the reality of the program is that it's not actually done. A figure of 401,000 was predicted. It's 359,000 today. I'm saying it's an absolute number, and we started off with a completely different number, not the number that's in the apps today, and it's written in the government apps, appendix ten, 272,000. No, we have a special state report that says we started with 323,000 disabled people. That is, the real employment of people with disabilities in five years is 36,000 people. Let's realize there's 36 grand, and there's a failure of the program. When you talk about the next factor in the program, it's education. I want to remind you that in absolute numbers, by the number of students who have received education -- that's less than 3,000 people -- these are the numbers of the program. Dear colleagues! The realities of the availability of employment in our society are the realities of non-execution of legislation. Today, the legislator has made virtually all laws that will ensure all employment - related aspects. I want to confirm what the committee head said, and today the issue is that the government actually implements these laws. Today, this is the main problem that applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u100	Thank you. Mankovsky's giving Harry the word, please. Kuzmenko's handing it over to Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Although several Governments have changed during the period of implementation of the programme that we are discussing today, and each of them has treated it in its own way, we can talk about the State's sufficiently significant progress towards the problems of persons with disabilities. The Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers practically formed a legal field by adopting 248 legal acts. During the implementation of the programme, the rehabilitation network has increased 13 times, today we have 557. At the same time, our country's pride may be the All-Ukrainian Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation in Lutez. We have made significant progress in creating employment for persons with disabilities. Employers began to turn to persons with disabilities. While there were 27,5,000 employers in 2001 who had adhered to existing legislation in job creation, in 2005 they had reached 59,000 109. After the Supreme Council had adopted changes to the law, the disabled had become non-alien and the public employment service. In 2005, 10,000 412 disabled persons were enrolled in the employment centre. It is much easier for a disabled person to receive vocational and vocational training today. Today, 4,000 children with disabilities are being trained in the vocational education system. Since 2001, the contingent of students with disabilities has grown by 2.5 times, accounting for 9,000 100 students from various universities. All of this is remarkable, but the real breakthrough in dealing with disability issues has unfortunately not taken place. It is disturbing that in recent years the number of persons with disabilities in the country is not only decreasing, but increasing from 4 to 5 per cent of the total population to 2.5 million. In 2005, only 360,000 persons with disabilities worked, which is 15 per cent of them. The Social Protection Fund of persons with disabilities is ineffective. The money is large and the results are weak. Inadequate financial assistance does not usually create jobs ineffectively. Often, “leap” jobs are created, the fund is not, for some reason, useful to use these 4 per cent of the places defined by law, better to receive fines from enterprises and use them on. At your discretion. Registers of persons with disabilities who have been rehabilitated and employed have not been established, there is no database of persons wishing to work in the profession and employment, and there is no full-fledged funding from all sources of funding identified in the programme. The budget of the Social Insurance Fund for all five years for this purpose does not provide for a single penny for the State. By taking stock of the programme, we must recognize that we have failed to achieve the main, worthy social protection of persons with disabilities and the broad integration of persons with disabilities into society. A new and better programme for 2007-2011 is needed and participation in its formation should be undertaken by both persons with disabilities, their social organizations and scientists and professionals, to which I call upon all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u102	Thank you. Yes, please, Santa Claus. Zablocksky's handing over the Merchant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u103	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, of course, today we've thrown aside political chatter, so I say, and we're discussing a rather pressing issue for our society. The program essentially ended in 2005. Today, we take stock of what has been done. There are, of course, works in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, works in the Ministry of Education, which was not mentioned once, and in other ministries. The main thing is also that there are certain laws that protect people with disabilities and, in particular, education in order to ensure that they can continue their lives. But has the full creation of a legislative framework been completed to protect the disabled? And most of all, it's not about the consequences of working with people with disabilities, it's about the reasons why people don't allow themselves to become disabled. Of course, it's not done yet. So we need to continue this work. And the socialists are proposing once again the creation of such a national programme, so that it can be based on a discussion of this program, based on a collection of information, to continue to prepare legislation that would provide adequate protection for people with disabilities. Therefore, I reiterate the need for a new program of professional rehabilitation and employment for those with limited physical capacity. With regard to another question: The Ministry of Education was mentioned today, and science, I report, however, that there is also a program of correction of the physical and mental person, with physical and mental development, delay. For this year, 80 million bracelets have been placed there, and tenders have already been made. And a request to the Ministry of Finance, however, for this money to come, because they have not yet arrived. As far as boarding school is concerned, it's also a pretty important problem. There has been a significant improvement in their funding, and children there are more secure than they need. But about the causes and consequences. I'll just give you one example. In Mining, where education is acquired in mining equipment, the term of use of equipment that is there for more than 20 years is 66.7%, can you teach a skilled worker who would not be disabled on such equipment? No, it's not. That is why this is an urgent problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u104	Please, Miroshnichenko Yuri. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. As you've all seen now, for the government of Viktor Yanukovic, for the anti-crisis coalition, the issue of employment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities is extremely important. We've heard a thorough report from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, we've heard both from the head of the profile committee, and we feel that this is a priority. Thorough answers, a clear understanding of the future -- how disability problems will be solved in part of their rehabilitation and employment -- show that this is a priority for us. Now it's about how we actually solve these problems. As has been clearly stated, these are three main directions. The first is rehabilitation itself, both psychological support and education, retraining. And the second direction is to create jobs, the third is to support the integration of people with disabilities, social networks, I mean. Look, and in each of these directions we have proposals. We also have a desire to support the direction of learning and retraining. Unfortunately, so far few opportunities have been created for people with disabilities and those who need to learn. I think for us, as parliamentarians, it will be a task to strengthen the financial component in this part for the next year. We can see that a perfectly well-founded government is proposing to maintain the four-percent provision for every employer of places for people with disabilities. There is a discussion in this regard. But I think this standard should be preserved. It is not enough to study the possibilities of additional incentives for employers to engage people with disabilities. And the third, no less important, is to support the unification of people with disabilities. Mr. Suškević and I were just communicating before my performance. He told me the program wasn't executed, there's something we're working on today, there's a lot of ways to work with the government. I'm proposing, first of all, to create maybe a working group and think about what changes or additions should be made to the legislative base. And this is our task as the Supreme Council. The other one. To support the government in the area where it proposes to increase funding by more than a third. And that, by the way, is the answer to government critics about the social orientation of government activities. And a third, which is very important. Do not leave this problem to the parties that are represented.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please. From the microphone, please. I'm tired of running through the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u107	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Your Honor, I don't run in court, so don't worry about me. I would like to say that before I give my word to my colleague Valery Suskevitch, I would like to say my opinion on the fact that the implementation of the national rehabilitation and employment programme of persons with limited physical capacity, the implementation of this program by the Cabinet of Ministers, I think, rather than being known, we should accept this exercise as unsatisfactory. And for what reason, please pass on the word Suškević, he will complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u108	Please, Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u109	Thank you. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. National Deputy Suškević. Dear colleagues, I would like to go back to education and say that today the relevant state documents, which provide for education, education for the disabled, provide for the State Program on Education for Persons with Disabilities. We insist that we do not want to follow the President's decrees and the legislative framework that envisions the establishment of this national programme. And really today, the unskilled work of disabled people, it's going from there, which is not there today, is what has to do with the education of disabled people. The next factor that comes back to the State Budget project and the traditions of many governments, the attempt to eliminate the preferences that apply to enterprises, the social organizations of people with disabilities, I support my colleague who spoke up and said that, let's support the social organizations of people with disabilities, their businesses. The State Budget Project contains a standard that can eliminate issues related to land benefits, social organizations of disabled persons, and rehabilitation centers. The next factor. I would like to draw the Government's attention to the fact that since 2006, when the Law on the Right to Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been in force, the main institution in Ukraine for the employment of persons with disabilities has been the centres and employment service. This should be kept in mind and handled accordingly by those documents that have not yet been processed, as the chairman of the committee on this subject spoke about. Dear colleagues, I cannot help but say about the situation that has to do with issues related to barriers. You know, if today's Parliamentary Committee on Retirement, Veterans and Disabled Persons with stairways and stairs is not possible, what do we want from enterprises and social and productive infrastructure to be barrier-free? And the fact that there is no Minister of Architecture and Construction today, by the way, the Ministry promised that this year. new ones will enter into force. They did not enter, they promised the following year, they were detracting everything that was related to the State’s standards of architecture on barrierlessness.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u110	Thank you. Minister, the vice prime minister was at the beginning. One minute from the township, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u111	The mayor, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. If one minute, it's literally schematic. I would very much like to draw the attention of both the government and all of us to what we are saying, to rehabilitate people, and if a person rests, of course, he can come to work and perform his duties before the state and, above all, feel normal in this life. So I want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we have mandatory sanatorium treatment. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there are five sanatoriums that are healing our people. And if you look at the numbers that there are, they usually say that we have to work on the budget for the next year and set out the funds for these very purposes. Because in 2006, we have 131 thousand people who need to be healed among them are 39,000 people with disabilities. So if you say 24 thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u112	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u113	But if you look at the fact that those who have the power can get to the sanatorium, I think that all of Ukraine for it is not some kind of discovery of America. We have a first - group and second - group disabled person who can't get well in the sanatorium with as much as 200 bracelets, and a third person with disabilities with as much as 150 bracelets for not using the route. We don't give travel because we don't give money because we haven't been cured. That's why I think it's anti-national, anti-, I don't know what to call it, social -- you can. But in this regard, I would like to budget 2007 to respond to all these points. One more. It used to be that the disability fund had funds and he used them to deposit, and now the deposit is cancelled. You have to think about it, or maybe that's the question that needs to be raised, and that's going to give us some momentum in the coming of other funds in a special account that costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have spent this time in discussion, and I ask for the closing statement of Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Tobacco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u115	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs present, invited, during today’s government day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have, along with you, taken stock of what has been done since 2001, by the five governments of Ukraine regarding the social protection of persons with disabilities, especially their rehabilitation and employment. But what's important is that we've identified the main issues and the main directions for further action in addressing them. It should be noted that further work on improving the vitality of persons with disabilities will take into account the changes that have taken place in the current legislation and the outcome of this discussion today at the Government Day in the Supreme Council. The most important instruments aimed at improving the social protection of persons with disabilities are Ukraine's disability rehabilitation laws in Ukraine, amending some Ukrainian legislation on occupational and labour rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, and amending some Ukrainian laws on the enjoyment by persons with disabilities of the right to work. A number of legal and regulatory projects have already been developed to implement them, which will improve the vitality of the disabled and improve their employment. I am convinced that the most important of these documents at this time is a project of a state-owned typical disability rehabilitation programme that was approved on October 6, 2006 at the last board meeting on disability issues. In preparation for the State Default Program project, representatives of social organizations of disabled people were actively involved in the preparation of this and other projects involving persons with disabilities. I would like separately to thank the Ukrainian National Deputy, the head of the Committee, Petr Stepanovich Cibenka, and the members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the work of pensioners, veterans and invalids on a fundamental document, a draft decision that takes into account in a focused way the main problems that both the government and the social organizations of persons with disabilities need to work on. However, as you and I know, there are many other problems that can be solved only by working together. For just one critical comment during the discussion, I would like to answer to National Deputy Suškević. If, in six years of implementation of the national programme, 752 million were allocated to the national programme. Now, that's a very important figure that's been growing year after year. So it took about 130 million people to create jobs, along with the resupply of social organizations in six years. One national centre for Paralympic sports is created with an almost relative amount of 106 million. So I think that's also where we need to look for some weaknesses and not enough jobs for people with disabilities. I assure the National Deputies that all the wishes, all the criticisms that we have heard in this room will be processed, carefully studied and decided upon only with a view to improving the vitality of persons with disabilities and taking into account the proposals made by the public organizations of persons with disabilities. Thank you for your cooperation, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-10-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we believe what the computer is showing us, we have 334 national MPs in the room, that is, we have the opportunity to raise the necessary 226 votes to decide on the results of the Government Day. Ready? Is there no objection that we should immediately accept as a determination? I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Programme for 2000-2005, registration number 2291. Please vote. Someone is voting wrongly in the regions. [[12:45:15]] For 294 It's been decided. Thank you. The factions. Factions please: The Party of Regions – 177, 1 – voted against, i.e. I pressed, but I said that someone had mistakenly pressed, Block Timoshenko – 40, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialist Party – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, thank you for your active participation in the work of our first Government Day. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I'm reminding you that we're working on committees, factions this week. The next plenary session will begin next Tuesday.
