ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Let's register. [[16:01:57]] There are 398 National Deputies cards registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. I hope that the leaders of the factions, the groups, informed you as soon as the Conciliation Council ended. In a word, nothing. But the conversation was long - term, constructive, and not always constructive. So you can get the details from your representatives, and now Vladimir Mikhailovich, Head of the Supreme Council, will inform the President about this conversation. And I must have bathed. And we'll work with you. Let's move on to the section by a simplified procedure. A draft law on the specificities of the introduction into civilian traffic of intellectual property rights created using public and/or local budgets, special and state trust funds, registration number 5596, is under consideration. Please, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u2	Rodionov. The Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners. The purpose of the bill currently under consideration is to create legal conditions to increase the competitiveness of Ukraine's economy. In particular, this is proposed by means of the introduction into civilian circulation of the results of scientific work created or acquired through budgetary financing. Similar laws exist in various countries, including the United States, Japan, Russia, the Republic of Belarus, and elsewhere. So this bill is designed to take into account the existing world experience in this field and the experience of Ukraine in scientific and innovative activities. According to the structure and content of the draft law, it consists of a prerequisite for eleven articles and final clauses. The premeditated objective of the project that I have already outlined is that this bill is not distributed to intellectual property objects that are created at the expense of businesses, businesses, and organizations. Articles 1 to 4 define existing legislation in this area, terminology, lists of subjects subject to national regulation. From 5 to 11 articles define the powers of government authorities, the mechanism of distribution of OIV's rights to stimulate the creation of these objects, the protection of rights, as well as the characteristics of export-import rights to OIV, the taxation of income from transfer of rights to intellectual property objects. In particular, it is stipulated that politics in this area is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The functions of government regulation rely on the authorized executive authority in the field of intellectual property, defined functions of this authorized authority. It is also stated that the basis for the creation of State property rights is the financing of these works. Exceptional rights are acquired by the State only for intellectual property, either in the area of national security and defence of Ukraine or when the State fully absorbs the financing of the creation, production and implementation of these objects. It is estimated that in all other cases exclusive intellectual property rights are owned by producer organisations on. the basis of contracts with institutions. The Final Positions define the terms of entry into force, the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to point out that this bill was still being submitted to Leonid Illich Brezhnev's kingdom, when there was no moratorium on any innovation and technological innovation. That's the first one. And second of all. This bill is initiated and requires that we adopt it on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. Short-term procedure. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski. And the committee was in the person and the author of the bill, and the heads of the subcommittee. The committee commissioned Rodion to present both of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u4	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury of Carmazin Block” Dear National Deputies! I thank National Deputy Rodion for preparing this law. Unfortunately, it's been on our shelves for a long time, and it's long overdue, because we're losing money, the state's losing money. And this law was introduced in 03.06 in 2004. So he could already work and give money. The purpose of the law, the creation of a mechanism for the distribution of rights and the regulation of state relations in the civil traffic of intellectual property objects, I believe is fulfilled in this law. In the Constitution, the mechanisms are correctly described. This law also proposes and should also amend existing laws: on taxation of the income of enterprises, and it should be introduced, it is complemented by the law in article 4.2.17, “The cost of intellectual property rights created at the expense of public funds” in order to establish the validity of the law on the specificities of the introduction into civil circulation of intellectual property objects created using the funds of the State or local budget, special funds and state funds charged to taxpayers. And they're taxed, they write, 50 percent of the current rate, and so on. There are also government orders and amendments to the Added Value Tax Act are made to this law. And I think that those apostate moments that are in the Final Position, that the law takes effect from the day of publication, except for articles 10 and 11, don't have to be recorded. I think that the law can now be developed on second reading and it can be deleted: it takes effect from the day of publication, it sets a point here, because articles 10 and 11 talk about the characteristics of accounting and the characteristics of income taxation, and we are also amending other laws on taxation. And that's why they'll enter at the same time, and there won't be any problems here. And the government's mandate on this issue will be given. So I think that's going to have to be ruled out. And the law can work fully, and we can confirm it in the next session. So once again, I thank the National Deputy Rodionov, and I believe that this will ensure the profit of the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u5	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski. Prepare the Levcun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u6	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, if this law had been passed earlier, I don't think it would have been necessary to adopt those legislative acts that are very often brought into the session room in order to increase criminal responsibility for the violation and so on and so forth. This law, when adopted, will allow all issues of intellectual property rights to be settled. This law clearly allows and determines the right of the State to intellectual property that is financed or fully financed from the State Budget. I think there's some sense of justice here. If the state finances, it has the right to manage these intellectual property. The law clearly regulates circulation, registration, regulation, and the rights of the State. It seems to me that this law should be adopted as a basis. All constructive suggestions are completed during the second reading and must be accepted. Again, once again, I point out to all the national MPs: the adoption of this law, if it had happened before, would not have required the adoption of those laws under which the hands of the Americans and other states were being used to lobby their interests in Ukraine. And instead of protecting our internal market, we're going into foreign companies, we're going to adopt legislation that is actually stopping the production of modern competitive products in Ukraine, and in fact, we're taking away Ukrainian goods and consumers from being competitive at the level and with American, European and so on. Because we know that the software products produced by world leaders in the acquisition of Ukraine or by some Eastern European state are much more in need than they can be developed in Ukraine or produced in a way that is not contrary to the moral principles of the State with a transitional economy in order to meet its vital needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u7	So, Volodymyr Levcun? I can't see. Please, Basil Nadrag. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u8	Vassili Naraga, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this bill's debate that it is being thrown out of the common canvas of legislation that we are considering very often with you in this room, with regard to property rights. We have recently, or rightly, a trend has recently increased when we talk about ownership rights, and we are very often and very much talking about an effective owner who should come and replace the State, that only an effective party can raise the country and everything else. And there must be some reason for this, but it seems to me that this has led to a state of affairs that we can say today that, unfortunately, in matters of ownership of the people, the interests of society in the interests of the State are not taken into account at all. I mean, we get that everything that's public, it's kind of like nothing. I'm sorry for the rude word, it's very common to say that this is the site where everyone does whatever they want. And I apologize for the non-parliamentary expression, what is sometimes called “deriban”. The state can be broken up, the state can be torn apart, anything can be done with it, and it seems as if it will not find its own assessment. Therefore, the bill is, in my view, positive that it raises the question that the State has the right to property, including intellectual property, which is created with the support of the State. And that's a good point, I stress again. For a State that issues money, financial assistance and other material opportunities for the development of intellectual capacity for intellectual property should have the right to intellectual property in order to create intellectual wealth. There can be no way that society, through the State by providing financial assistance, could do anything and even have the right to its property, as a result of the prepared product. That is why, I think, the author's absolutely right to offer us a solution to this problem. And it is absolutely right in the law that the issue relates exclusively to national security and the defence of the country. Because this is the strategic wealth of our economy, the strategic wealth of our country. Therefore, it is absolutely consistent that mechanisms are in place to encourage the use of intellectual property facilities, that tax promotion mechanisms are in place, and that mechanisms are in place, I think, are essential. And I hope that the second reading will further increase the responsibility for not transferring ownership rights, including in the form of material remuneration for those who created them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u9	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u10	Thank you. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will be supported by our faction, but only on the first reading. Because there are so many comments and very many articles. I will draw your attention to just one article. This is up to the sixth article of the bill. This article says that property rights for intellectual property belonging to the State and their transfer to other persons are subject to mandatory state registration in all respects. I think it's a perfectly normal norm, and if there's such a state registration, then it's better to manage these processes, but here's what we need to consider. That if we look at article 1114 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the license to use intellectual property rights in a contract as defined in articles 11.09, 11.12., 11.13 of this Code is not subject to mandatory government registration. Their maintained registration is made on the basis of a licensee’s or licensee’s requirements in the order established by law. I mean, what are we talking about? If we accept this bill, it goes into conflict with the Civil Code of Ukraine, and we are in the Civil Code of Ukraine, in article 4, we read that the rights of the legislative initiative that govern civil relations are different from the Civil Code, then he is obliged, whoever submits the bill, to submit the draft amendments to the Civil Code at the same time. Thus, the Civil Code of Ukraine has not been amended, so we are in direct violation, not just having a dispute with the Civil Code of Ukraine, but we are in direct violation of article 4 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. And no government registration, it doesn't limit rights, but I think it's necessary to register. Now I would like to draw your attention to article 10, part two of the draft law on non-inclusion in gross income of the value of intellectual property rights and article 11 of the draft law on the establishment of income tax characteristics from transfer of intellectual property rights using public funds need to be excluded. Why? Because, again, there is the law on the system of taxation and it says that it is only by this law that we regulate the rates, the mechanisms for tax administration and the congregations. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka proposes to vote in favour of this bill, but only in the first reading. And bring it in line with the Tax System Act and the Civil Code of Ukraine and all other articles. And such a bill is essentially necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u11	And we thank you for that. Please, for the reasons of the vote, Deaf, microphone, one minute. Because we have a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u12	Lew Glukhovsky, People's Movement faction. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The bill you are offered improves the legal mechanism for regulating intellectual property relations. We now have fairly good legislation in this area, but it only works well with regard to those intellectual property that are being implemented that are being developed at the expense of private funds. And what's touched by government funds, government budgets, is not quite settled. So we need to define this bill as a positive one with a second reading in the science and education profile committee. There are a number of comments that I would like to make, unfortunately, the time that I have left will not allow me to do so very much. In particular, article six proposes all intellectual property items that are developed at the expense of State funds divided into two groups. Those who belong to the sphere of National Security and Defence and which the state fully assumes the functions of financing and creation, as well as all others. Yes, these are all others offered to ransom the organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Discussing the question. Nigger one more minute, please, Black Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u14	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, PRP faction. Dear National Deputies! Now, the question is not as big as it is, and maybe it's not important enough for someone, but it's essentially a breakthrough. Because it brings into civilian circulation intellectual property rights, which are not private, which are created by the state budget and by the local budgets and also by special funds. Therefore, this should be brought into civilian traffic and should be the acquisition of these people who could exercise this right, not of any private person. Therefore, there is good reason for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u15	Question completed. Let us adopt the law in the first reading. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of the law on the characteristics of the introduction into civilian traffic of intellectual property rights created using the funds of state or local, special and state trust funds, registration number 5596. Please vote. [[16:23:22]] For 219 The factions, please. Regions 48, communists 52, Our Ukraine 7, People's Party 34, Block Timoshenko 0, Socialist 25, National Block 21, Social Democrats 3, Ukrainian People's Republic 2. [[United]] Ivan Aleksandrovitch was such a good agitator. Rebirth – 5, National Movement of Ukraine - 4, Reforms and Orders - 10, “Only Ukraine” - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 0, Postfraction - 8. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[16:24:20]] For 302 We're back. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of the Law on the Specialities of the Introduction to Civil Trafficking of Intellectual Property Rights Objects created using the funds of state or local, special and state trust funds, registration number 5596. Please vote. [[16:25:00]] For 275 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Belonging to Us is being heeded. I've been translated here, yes. Draft Act on Supplements to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine, registration number 7043. [[on the responsibility for the illegal financing of judicial bodies]] According to Leonid Czernovecki, prepare Andrew Skull, a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and those who listen to us! Leonid Chernovecki, faction of our Ukraine. I want to remind you of what you have long known, and our citizens must hear that our judicial system necessarily requires improvement. There are major problems for the Gardeners, as we have one of the largest cases in European courts. This means that judges are never always able to make decisions for the benefit of citizens. In accordance with the Constitution, they must act in the interests of our fellow countrymen, and we must ensure that the courts work justly. And, of course, the question of voting or not voting for my law is a matter of conscience. And those who don't understand it now, I'll try to get it to all present. Where does the arbitrariness in Ukraine begin? And why do our citizens have a million problems with officials at different levels, ranging from the smallest to the largest? They begin with the fact that the courts are placed in the most terrible conditions for their work: they are not provided with a suitable space. Today, the Gongadze case is being heard — two people cannot be placed there, even the accused cannot be planted there. Not to mention ignorant people who require the same help as relatives of a murdered journalist. These are both pensioners and workers and many others. The bribery of the courts begins with the fact that, of course, the judges are given first of all their apartments. But that's still normal, God willing, we can live with it! But the construction of the courts, which is financed by local bureaucracy, is criminal. And as long as we allow it, no one in Ukraine, including you present here, can count on just justice. This is a big problem because it starts with the apartment, and ends with the announcements in the courts today: “Bring your paper and office supplies, otherwise we will not look into your case”, so it's a little bit more. This suggests that the President of the Court has a conscience. And where he doesn't need anything, the mayor's already intervened, he's already fully funded the court, and problems are starting for the whole population. Please support this law, because otherwise those who chose you will not receive any justice. I'm asking you, it's all very serious! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u17	From the Committee, Sergey Sinchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u18	Well, I don't know if anyone figured out what that law is. So let me remind you: this is a law that proposes to establish the criminal responsibility of officials of executive organs, local self-government bodies, businesses, institutions and organizations, individuals for financing in any form of judicial authority outside the State budget. This question is proposed to complement the Criminal Code with an article 376. 1 of the corresponding contents. He should say that the committee had the same opinion that the issue raised in the draft had already been properly settled at the legislative level and did not require further regulation. The project is about funding the judiciary outside the budget. Such actions are qualified as a violation of the legislation on the budget system, and article 210 is already the Penal Code. And there's no need for further definition in other laws. It's worth noting that we've been looking at the same project before, and we've accepted it. They got the President's veto on him. After that, the author changed a few words and again invites us to accept. That is why there is even a decree on the inadmissibility of Vasil Onopenek. Therefore, given that the issue in question is properly regulated at the legislative level and the proposed changes are contrary to the provisions of current legislation, the draft Law on Supplements to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the establishment of criminal liability for illegal financing is such that it is impossible to accept. The committee therefore proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u19	Yes, there's a draft decision on inadmissibility, Vasil Vasilovich, but I don't see it. Before the vote, we will be determined. Are we talking? Please, Karmazin, get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u20	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “The Jury Carmazin Electoral Block. ” Dear National Deputies, you and I have once voted in favour of this Law in this Hall. Where did we come from? Remember, we came out that there were very low salaries in the courts, that the courts were extremely poorly supplied with premises, with office equipment, and all those who came in asked to leave envelopes to give answers and paper for what was not on which to print. What has changed seriously? No, it's not. The situation has not changed. What, have those resolutions or the Vienna Declaration changed seriously, the Programme of Action adopted at the second human rights conference on June 25, 1993? No, I haven't. However, she was obliged to properly finance institutions that carried out justice. Despite the recent increase in salaries in the courts, the working conditions of the judges have not improved. The working conditions of technical workers, especially technical workers, have not improved at all. They have remained the same, or they have become worse than others. For the judges were raised up, and the secretaries of the courts were not raised up. What, the quality of justice improved? We saw with you how the Gongadze case was considered, where we deliberately went into a conflict with journalists, with the public, in the center of Kiev. So perhaps the root of evil here is not what Mr. Chernewicki is proposing to do today. I realize that it may not be a goal to violate and record changes to the Criminal Code. I am sure that if we and this law were to be passed, he too would be committed. I have no doubt about it. Apparently, Mr. Chernewsky just wants to draw attention to the problem: the problems of non-funding on the one hand, and on the other hand the huge corruption of the judiciary. When the head of the court, the court itself, today has a few million dollars worth of property, changes the flow of the river, we write, we turn wherever we write -- nothing, no results. One court chief on a list of a distinguished party sitting in front of me, another court chief on a list of another important party or block. And there's no order in the judicial system. So I think it's purely legal, if we even adopt this law, it doesn't change much. I will vote for him, as I once voted. But there is a need to change the attitude of both the judiciary and the people, and order needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u21	Mikola Rudzkowski. Prepare Alexander Bandurzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u22	As we look at this law, we have to look at it from this point of view, that we have been living since January 1st in the new state, we have a parliamentary-presidential republic where the role of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the role of the independent judiciary is greatly increasing under new conditions. That's it. In order for the judiciary to be truly independent, we must, starting in 2006, ensure that it is truly financially independent. and the question of whether to appeal to local authorities or to the court’s owners did not arise so that the State could fully provide them with all the necessary resources. I’m actually surprised when I come to the area or the area to look at the premises of the district tax inspection and the district or district court, that is, the district tax inspection provided by computers, Mercedes and so on, in the courts where thousands more people are referred to, very often, no computers, I’m not talking about transportation anymore. Since 1975, telephones have stood in circuit courts that no one has ever changed. And so now we're going to talk about what we're going to trim the funding of the courts, so we can actually paralyze the work of the judicial system. I think that when we make decisions to increase funding from the central budget, we should also allow local budgets to finance the development of the judicial system by specifying specific articles, let's say building buildings or some other direction. It's not normal. This is not normal and will never be normal when the Cave Court of Kiev has such rooms where there are ceilings where there are no basic conditions of stay, there, by the way, sometimes, and there are national deputies and ministers, what can be said about district courts? We, by the way, have always dealt with the issue of the judicial system in the final principle, financed the forces, the taxpayers, those who are closer to the body, not those who are closer to the people. I think we can't pass such laws, but we need to think about how to increase funding so that in three years we can have new facilities in the judicial system, proper technology and funding issues never rise again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u23	Yes, Alexander Bandurka, please. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. By enacting a law establishing criminal responsibility for the illegal financing of judicial bodies, we are thus protecting the judicial system from interference through the possibility of underground, latent financing, criminal financing. It can be said that there are many, many flaws. It's probably possible for every judge to have some calculations. It's not the individual judges or the people who work in this system, it's the system that's responsible and, above all, the authorities. Returning to the bill, the bill is aimed at establishing a reliable obstacle to the illegal financing of judicial bodies. And it's fashionable to take into account the doubts that have been expressed here by individual deputies, but I can see that, and this is the position of the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania that the law in the first reading could be adopted, and in the second reading it could be worked out at such times. First of all, the bill lays responsibility only for the non-budgetary financing of the judiciary. But the support of the judicial authorities may also take place in other forms, forms of various transmissions, services, repairs, and the like. This too must be taken into account in the law. The other one. The current legislation provides for the possibility for the judicial authorities to obtain material assistance under the Ukrainian Law on Charity and Charity Organisations. Thus, if the project is adopted, there may be a conflict between its rules and those of the law. And this in the second reading should also be counted. Quite rightly, the MPs here referred to the fact that there are already articles in the Ukrainian Criminal Code, such as article 210 “infringement of budgetary legislation” and article 376 “intervention into the activities of judicial bodies”, where the kind of problem that we are about to resolve is already defined. It's not about the illegal financing of the judiciary, it's about the other way these are defined. But once again, in the second reading, all of these norms and the article proposed by 376 with the “direct” “unlawful financing of judicial bodies” could be tied to each other in order to correspond. I see this administrative right, the phone right to restrict it, we certainly never eliminate it, the law in the first reading to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u25	Thank you. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u26	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear National Deputies! I want us to look at this problem from a much broader perspective. What are we talking about? It is a matter of prohibiting non-budgetary financing by officials of executive bodies, local self - government, businesses, institutions, and organizations irrespective of their form of ownership, the financing of judicial bodies. Similarly, sanctions are imposed for such criminal activity — up to five years in prison or six months in prison and so on. But let's speak frankly. We have a problem of de-commercializing power. Only then will the authorities work for their people, only then will they think about the citizens, if they don't have sanatoriums, garages, and so on. And instead of thinking about how to reconcile the interests of a person with group and national interests, an official is thinking about how to convert these government funds from the state budget into his own pocket. The same is true of the court. So if we want to de-commercialize the court, then we really have to introduce this law. It takes a criminal responsibility to ensure that no one has such a desire to finance the court. But on the other hand, we have to be responsible for this problem and in the State budget, always allocate enough money to ensure the independence of the court. I think that this is exactly the position that the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka is in the direction of improving power, modernizing our authority, bringing it to European standards, and all the rest is commercialization. Yes, where there is commerce in power, there is mafia, there is corruption, and this mafia and corruption are eating up our society today. So, despite the fact that we have a legislative framework that seems to allow proper court funding, but practice shows that there is a violation of the law. So we're going to put up some kind of fuses that wouldn't allow anyone today to bribe anyone, anyone, in fact, to encourage the underfunding of the court, because the underfunding of the court by the state is the same crime, because then the court can't fulfill its commitment. So the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy will support this bill in the first reading, and I advise you to support it in the same way, to de-commercialize power, to fight the Mafia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u27	Ivan Aleksandrovich, you are so active that you should add your last name to the name of the block. Then there will be Kostenka, Ivy and Hare, the CPZ. Yes, please, two minutes, Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Cherniak, PRP faction. We all want to ensure the independence of the judicial system. And really, this is a serious problem that needs to be solved because, in a sense, the system of justice has turned into a system of lawlessness. And this is a matter that needs to be settled by law and also settled by the financial side of the case -- to decide on the financing of the judicial system. This question is unresolved. The problem therefore has two sides: the first is to protect the judicial system from illegal financing and, on the other hand, the legal financing of the judicial system needs to be ensured. But since legal funding is not resolved, there are attempts at illegal financing. And it is the author of the bill who is trying to put obstacles on this path to ensure the independence of the judicial system. I think we have reason to support the conceptual bill, but I still think we need to write some laws more elegantly in the process of preparing for second reading, because we can't completely ban charity, mecynation, sponsorship. So some forms are certain, I think we can find them when we can transfer them to the office, when we can do repairs while we decide on the legal financing of the judicial system. So I think the first reading can be supported, and in the process of preparing for the second reading, we can make adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u29	Thank you. They're all here. One minute Chernewicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies and, above all, those who listen to us because I feel that the law may not pass. I want to tell you that I have submitted a large number of drafts to the Supreme Council. It's one of those bills I'm proud of. Sooner or later it will be adopted in Ukraine. The lie is that today the judicial system can be financed by various budgetary and non-budgetary funds. The truth is that the judicial system needs funding, and for that we can vote even today, but who prevents you today from freeing our citizens from arbitrariness? What do you do if you don't vote? You will leave them alone with the local head of the household, who will do whatever he wants in the area, and the court will support him in everything. Then let them take us into custody. I, Leonid Chernovetski, “Our Ukraine”, believe that if you do not at least vote on the first reading of this bill and leave the people alone by choice!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u31	There is a decree against the inadmissibility of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u32	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, the idea of this bill is understood, is understandable why this bill has been introduced. But should it be accepted when the issue is fully settled in our current legislation? Why build a bridge across the river? Well, let's say it's about what's breaking budgetary discipline and breaking the Budget System Act. For example, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the excess of approved budgetary resources, the lack of proportionality requirements and so forth, is article 210 of the Criminal Code, which provides for a measure of responsibility when it comes to the fact that the use of budgetary resources contradicts their intended purpose does not entail administrative responsibility on a large scale. This is article 164, 12 prime. The Code of Administrative Offences. In addition, article 376 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for responsibility for interfering with the judicial system. In doing so, it does not matter what he or she has done to qualify. When it comes to a person’s financing of judicial bodies for the execution or failure of certain actions in his or her interests, these bodies are qualified by appropriate articles — giving, receiving, or provoking bribes. Alexander Markovich, that's what you said. Computers, technology, and so forth. There are articles 368, 369, 370 of the Criminal Code that provide criminal responsibility for such acts. I do not know the example of today, for which it is possible not to involve a person in criminal responsibility or administrative responsibility when it comes to interfering with judicial activity. That's why we need to discuss this bill. We can. It's a very important idea, because, you know, the situation in the courts is extremely difficult. The question has to be put in another plane, and today the judicial authorities are underfunded. They're funded by 50 percent. This is not about cars and other such important things. The phones, the courts, and everything else do not have proper funding. I don't think there's any need for such a bill. And the decision to reject it was made solely because it was clearly settled in the current legislation. So please reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u33	Thank you. John the Rabbit, one minute. His name was on the line, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u34	My name was mentioned by the chairman. That's why I want to say it. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your appreciation for my work. But when it comes to the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy, we have beautiful leaders. Kostenko is an experienced man, Ivy is as experienced as he is. People who have a lot of experience working in parliament who have a lot of experience working in executive power. And I think that's the best estimate for us. And we're acting as a team, not running ahead of one, but as far as decryption is concerned, don't touch it, because we can also decipher it by this analogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u35	Yeah, we haven't deciphered anything yet, we just called it. Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act on Complementing Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for the Illicit Financing of Judicial Authorities. Registration number 7043, please vote. [[16:52:50]] For 121
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u36	By factions, please: “Ukraine” - 5, Communists - 50, People's Party - 3, “Our Ukraine” - 1, Block Timoshenko - 2, Socialists - 2, National Block Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 6, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, Rebirth - 4, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 5, National Movement of Ukraine - 5, Reforms and Orders, “One Ukraine” - zero, non-fractional - 5. [[United]] Perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? It's about inadmissibility. Then I put it to a vote, let's start over. I put to the vote the inadmissibility order, the inadmissibility order, the Law. Excuse me, let's say again, don't worry. I bet I'm putting Vassil Vasilovich Onopenek's Order on the Inadmissibility of the Law. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:54:23]] For-52 Not supported. I now consider adoption as a basis in the first reading of the law on the introduction of additions to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, registration number 7043. [[on the responsibility for the illegal financing of judicial bodies]] Please vote. [[16:54:55]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of re-reading the first reading, please vote. Rereading the first reading. Vote. You have monitors, you can look at factions. [[16:55:23]] For-166 Even less. By factions, please, by factions. "Regions of Ukraine" – 1, Communists – 45, National Party – 4, "Our Ukraine" – 34, Block Timoshenko – 4, Socialists – 6, "National Block of Lithuania" – 22, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 7, "Rebirth" – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 9, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, "Reforms and Orders" – 10, "One Ukraine" – 0, non-fractional – 3. [[United]] The bill was rejected. Yes, we are aware, 2 factions – the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and “The One Ukraine” are asking for breaks. Maybe a performance? Yes, please, they have already consulted and the School is ready to speak. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u37	I'd like that. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I wanted to make a statement that, of course, a lot of important and urgent matters are now being considered by Parliament, but I cannot understand one thing why Lukyanka-Belarus's decision 8682 on the threat to Ukraine's national security in connection with the unskilled actions of the executive authorities to secure Ukraine's consumers with natural gas does not even place the vote in order to bring it into the agenda. I think that now that there's a problem in time with finally getting out of the state that we're trying to get into, when there's a lot of talk about what compromise needs, we're proposing, as for me, a beautiful state compromise. The agreement that was the decision of the Supreme Council is annulled is acknowledged by the fact that it gave schools national interests. The Attorney General is studying the situation, turning to the District Court, denunciation of this agreement, and everything is in place. Officials who have brought Ukraine into a situation where national interests have been violated, when the situation has been betrayed, and when, in principle, we can finally find out that the names are guilty, there is only a need to put a dot in this story and move on. Not to speculate or exploit, not to blow up the smoldering ratings of one or the other political forces, but eventually to make a decision. So I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to put this question to a vote, to put it into the agenda, to consider it and to vote it out literally today. The committee did all this work, everything worked out. And in the end, we can get to the normal thing. I'm ready, we're ready in the future when this treacherous agreement, the one that put Ukraine on its knees, is denounced. Once we denounce it, we can review the question, go back to the question of resigning the government, and I'm totally in agreement with that. And I don't think there are any national MPs in this room who wouldn't be convinced that a similar decision puts Ukraine on the verge of an economic catastrophe. Therefore, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the faction of the “One Ukraine” Party, demands that the issue of the inclusion of Lukyanka-Bilarus in the agenda be considered in order for us to vote in favour of inclusion, and then I am convinced that we will vote in favour of the decision itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u38	Yes, dear colleagues, we can't bet on inclusion, because it's part of the agenda, we've already taken it as a basis. Let's do this: if the committee is ready, and we've entrusted the committee, let the secretariat bring me the necessary documents, and we'll look at it, and now I'm putting it in, because it's still not in order today, I'm betting on your judgment. Who is responsible for considering this determination today? Please vote. [[17:00:23]] For 229 We'll look into it, but I'm asking the secretariat again. By fact, please: “Ukraine” - 56, Communist - 45, National Party - 35, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Block Timoshenko - 33, SPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, National Block Lithuania - 21, SDPU (o) - 19, Rebirth - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Ukrainian Reforms and Orders” - 0, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, Non-fractional - 4. I mean, dear colleagues, I'm saying once again that we're going to look at it if the papers come along and there's a representative from the committee. I don't answer your cards, I'm sorry. I ask you, I address Vitaly Mike, he comes up saying that I emphasize that everyone is voting in accordance with the Constitution for himself. Yes, the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 7561. Please prepare Markusz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u39	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The law before you aims to liberalize Ukrainian justice, which, unfortunately so far is of an incriminating nature, most often acting as an investigator who uses extremely often repressive measures to not only carry out the task of combating crime but also to carry out very often political orders. That is why I have proposed a bill that should lead to a certain liberalisation of the Ukrainian judicial system. At the same time, I want to say that some of these problems will be solved in the new Criminal Procedure Code. I want to share with you, dear colleagues, and the fact that Ukraine has fifth place in the world in terms of the number of convictions after the United States, Russia, Kazakhstan, and other countries per 100,000 citizens of Ukraine. This can only be said by the fact that we continue the policy that was initiated in the Soviet Union when criminal action brought up society. At the same time, one Ukrainian convict is being held for 12 dollars, while in Sweden this amount is 150 to 200 dollars, in Britain for 2 thousand euros. This can only prove that we have every second person convicted of tuberculosis and other complex diseases, we have a deformed nation in which almost every quarter of the time at hand can somehow be connected to the Ukrainian penitentiary system. My offer is made up of three parts. The first part is that changes to the Civil Procedure Code propose offering a situation in which a convicted person would have the right to treatment outside the Penitentiary Institution if his disease was severe and could not be cured at places where he was deprived of his will. We realize that this problem is often used by law enforcement authorities who are investigating a criminal case in order to take advantage of the difficult situation of the arrested and use it for the purpose of actually getting evidence. Two other proposals relate to the introduction of a bail and home arrest. The position of scientific management in this respect is critical, but it seems to me that the observations they made can be completely eliminated in the process of second reading. I believe that this approach requires our decision today, as the Ukrainian law enforcement system is increasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Please, from the committee, the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Marcus Mary Andriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u41	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellow MPs, Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, was discussed by Ukrainian National Deputies Stepan Bogdanović Gavrish and Georgi Korniyovich Kručko's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure at registration number 7561. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code with a new precautionary measure, such as home arrest, and to introduce a mechanism whereby, when deciding on a precautionary measure in the form of taking custody of a suspect, accused and accused person, the court will apply a court-martial. The Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. However, according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first reading of the bill suggests that it should be redrafted and re-submitted to the first reading. I think that the honourable colleagues who will be involved in discussing this bill will pay attention to the shortcomings that call for the return of the bill to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u42	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. Please, Karmazin. Prepare for Garden. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders, the constituency of Yuri Karmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed changes should humanize our approach to those in the penitentiary system today. I'll remind you that these are more than 200,000 Ukrainian citizens who are now in places of deprivation. And that's what we get every year. Thus, Mr. Havrish correctly noted that Ukraine is in its fifth place, perhaps sometimes on the fourth, sometimes on the sixth, of the number of prisoners in places of deprivation. The project proposes that the defendant be given the right to receive proper medical examination and medical treatment, while an emergency, at a specialized medical facility. A good offer, but can we do it today with regard to every citizen who is not in places of deprivation? Obviously not. Obviously, there is no financial justification for this project at all. So it is absolutely impossible to do that. Next. Let's look at the other proposals. A fine proposal for the introduction of a home arrest as a precautionary measure applied in the course of a previous investigation by a judge or a court order. But again some unknown reasons make it clear that the police have to control not earlier than eight o’clock and not later than 20 o’clock in the evening. And on what crimes can we worry about, who will be under house arrest? The idea is good, a great idea: not everyone can be put in jail, but some can be kept at home, and they can save the state's money, but the realization of what this idea is. We were just talking here about how the courts are financed. Mr. Onopenko has told us how difficult it is, and I would like to draw his attention, and the Minister of Justice, and the President of the State, to what is going on in the Kirovograd Court of Appeal, where they have violated a criminal case that is not being investigated for the theft of funds that have been made to repair the court, where they have now bought Toyota Camri with leather seats instead of repairing the roof. I'd like to point out that we have a lot of money to spend. This Law, the ideas of this Law, should be refined, some of them needed, deserved support, but implementation needed serious reform. So we have to send him out for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u44	Santa Claus, please. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u45	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. The Socialists have considered the bill in detail and have called for consideration on its adoption. Clearly, the creation of legislative preconditions to ensure the proper protection of the rights and freedoms of detained persons is an urgent requirement of time and a prerequisite for recognition by the Ukrainian State and by European society. For civil society, of course, that's the norm, but in what society we eventually live in, let's take a look. The bill proposes a mechanism for the court’s decision on a precautionary action in the form of a bail and a replacement for a bail. This standard on one side is humane and necessary, and on the other side it is extremely dangerous. Well, for example, in the city of Kirovograd, a hundred famous constituencies committed a crime. But those who did, and this is recognized by the court, are not held accountable. Well, first of all, Hilchenko, Lucanov and their patrons. The girl was searched for, detained, and until she was sought for influence over those who gave the evidence. But when he was taken into custody and then sentenced to court, people immediately began to change their appearances because they began to work with such people on the one hand. So this action is extremely normal and normal for civil society, but it is dangerous for the society in which we live. Therefore, the replacement of a measure on a judicial basis requires a clear mechanism for its application. How to do this, how to distinguish when it is necessary to simply release a person, and when it is a person who has committed an unconditional crime, and when he is arrested. A good standard is, of course, laid down in relation to home arrest. And that's what needs to be done. The normal norm is that the arrest or house arrest of a suspect is immediately handled by a known wife, relatives, an administrative officer at his place of residence or employment. So once again, I emphasize that without a clear mechanism, a clear definition, when there should be an arrest, and when there is a judicial arrest, the law in general cannot be passed. Therefore, it is best to work things out and go out with a normal, well - described, clearly defined law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u46	Please, Andrew School. I can't see. Alexander Bandurka. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. Bill 7561 aims at obtaining qualified medical care and treatment, introducing a new type of preventive measure of domestic arrest, and in general should contribute to improving, improving, and improving the existing system of protection of the rights and freedoms of a given category of persons, i.e. convicted persons. There's a note. The project is going to be equal to 7,000 minimum wage, 7,000, I repeat. However, the proposal contradicts the provision of article 154. The Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which defines cases where a precautionary measure is applied, a judicial mortgage, is established to the extent that a person is charged with a serious crime. And there is, of course, a contradiction. Position of article 155, prime badges. The Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that internal affairs officials are monitoring a person who is being taken into custody as a precautionary measure of home arrest from 8 a.m. to 20 p.m. And it provides that they have the right to appear without hindrance, but not before 8 a.m. and not later than 20 hours at night. Well, let's just say it's not exactly a police matter, on the one hand, and on the other hand, how is the rest of the age, for 12 hours, including nighttime, who's going to control it? Finally, article 43 and article 43. Once again, the Criminal Procedure Code gives the defendant and the suspect the right to demand immediate medical examination or treatment in a specialised medical facility. How this will be done in case such standards are adopted. So I can see that in general, by approving the idea of a bill, it would be right to send it back to read again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u48	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u49	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not know such a block? I think you should know, national deputies, with such an internship, because it's a block based on the Ukrainian People's Party, on the Party of Free Farmers and Entrepreneurs, on the Party “College Ukraine”. A block that has a time-tested command. People who fought for Ukraine's independence who want Ukraine to have a Ukrainian face. So I ask the honourable MPs from the parliamentary majority not to show their ignorance politically and not to pretend that you don't know what is such a Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. You scream, don't shout, this block will be present in Parliament next, and you will see its power. Now, distinguished national MPs! There is such a saying whether there is a saying: “With good intentions the road is paved to hell.” This bill, which we are currently discussing, is essentially the right bill. Because there is a need to expand the list of precautions. Because we have that, or sit in the CPZ and sit there, or walk free. You can, indeed, and house arrests can be introduced, you can apply this practice to us is, mortgage. But let's write these mechanisms in a way that doesn't discredit them. If we read the bill, we see that the mechanisms for applying this list of precautionary measures, such as house arrest, as collateral, are essentially discrediting these measures. For, indeed, house arrests cannot be applied today unless it is said how a suspect, accused or accused should act. It says only that he should either not leave his home 24 hours a day or for some time. Whether he can communicate with other people, whether he can send a mail or something, nothing is said here. That's why. There is no clear mechanism. So it's going to be discrediting this institution of home arrest, whatever you want to do. Similarly, it is not said that there should be a judgment, that the judgment should contain what is the responsibility of the suspect for failure to do so. So in summary, it should be said that it needs to be worked out, but its orientation is correct. So the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka recommends that it be rejected for further processing, so that such an institution as home arrest is not discredited and the mortgage is likewise. What you're yelling at, people are good, there's going to be this block in Parliament -- don't shout like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u50	Don't get excited, Ivan Alexanderovich, it will be, it will be. Yes, with the motives, please, the Nigger then the School per minute, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u51	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Cherniak. The faction of the PRP. I am impressed by the paphos of the bill that the rights of the accused must be adequately protected. Of course, we have not yet fully protected the rights of the unaccused, but at least democracy and justice require that the rights of the accused be properly protected. I believe he deserves to be supported by a novel on precautionary measures such as house arrest, judicial arrest. At the same time, I agree with the criticism I have been making about the fact that the mechanisms for doing so are not well written. I think you can conceptually support, either in the first reading, or at the first reading, or at the first reading again, and write in more detail in the process of preparing for the second reading of these mechanisms, and generally, such a law is necessary. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u52	Andrew School, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u53	Thank you. I would like to point out that this bill is interesting, first of all, those novels. When we talk about the notion of "home arrest," when we say "restraint," it's all those precautions that prevent a person from being caught in a detention facility. And now let's figure it out. How many countries will be arrested and how many are held in a detention facility. Of course, they're holding a person in inhumane conditions in a detention facility, but they say that one investigator-arrested person spends 25 dollars a day in a state. Of course, it's probably in five, but it's still there. How many states there are counting the funds for one of the arrestees. Plus here, keeping those who protect him and protect him. So I would like to point out that even the additional funds that will be allocated to ensure normal detention under house arrest, or under a mortgage, are better than raising future criminals in a detention facility. So I think it's actually worth supporting this bill in the first reading, working out and deciding.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u54	Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the right of the accused, registration number 7561. Please vote. [[17:22:17]] For 233 Thank you. Adopted in the first reading. The factions. The regions of Ukraine are 57, the Communists are 55, our Ukraine is 1, the People's Party is 25, the Block of Timoshenko is 33, the SPI- 0, the People's Block of Lithuania is 22, the Social Democratic Party is 19, the Ukrainian People's Party, the Renaissance is 0, the National Movement of Ukraine is 0, the Reforms and Order is 4, the One Ukraine is 8, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 4, the Postfactional 5. [[united]] Dear colleagues! A draft of the Ukrainian National Security Regulation was issued in connection with the actions of the executive authorities to provide natural gas to Ukrainian consumers. Who will report from the committee? Nasalek, please. In your hands, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! I am more than convinced that the political crisis that has become a catalyst for this crisis has been the gas crisis that has preceded it. The only thing that can be said directly is that the tumor does not appear in one day, and every tumor has its own clinic. If you define the metastases that gave birth to this tumor, you have to move from the core to the personnel positions that were. Regrettably, the staff positions were not shaped in the principle of “whoever can” but in the principle of “who directs the structure”. If we analyze the situation that has arisen, we will discuss that the initiator of the change in the intergovernmental agreement, which has been confirmed and ratified by parliaments both Russia and Ukraine, the interstate agreement where Ukraine received 50 dollars of gas was the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, which initiated a change in the transit rate in the agreement between Ukraine and Russia. The fact is that this crisis grew and directly within the committee on October 19, 2005, the committee met with one goal, where all NAC leaders, Naftogazu Ukraine, were invited to participate in the project, where the leaders of the fuel and energy complex, who fully represented the structure, were invited. By then, the committee had said that the crisis was coming -- the gas crisis in Ukraine. Literally, which was recorded on the cameras, we got an answer that any changes to the government agreement, that was said by Mr. Yvchenk, would be a betrayal of Ukraine's interests. A similar ideology was supported by Ivan Vasilovich Plačkov. What has changed? Why did this situation become a crisis? On the committee yesterday, the deputy head of fuel and energy reported that the agreement signed on January 4 was not a directive given by the government of Ukraine, which was signed by NAK “Naftogazu Ukraine. ” If you look at what happened, you can only say one thing: at the end of January 31st, the Russian government gave a telegram that the first quarter of us were working under the 2003 contract, that is, the price of gas did not change. The first of January is literally changing the quantity of gas, the second of January is renewed, we're working under the contract in 2003, and the fourth of January is signed by this agreement. If we're saying that this treaty is opposing, then it's opposing to business, to the entire industry of Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Please sit down. No questions asked. No, it's a second reading, we've already taken it for granted. We signed up for the show, we'll talk about it. Let's do it in a nutshell. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready for Assadchev. Carmazine's microphone, please. Please turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u57	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Jurya Carmazin's constituency. Dear National Deputies, now one of the most responsible moments in Ukraine's history after the completely irresponsible government of Yehanurov was resigned with a brutal violation of article 87 of the Constitution, where 150 people were to initiate, not two men, the question of expressing mistrust, I stress, for the resignation is quite different; the 115th Constitution, where the distinction between resignation and non-trust is clearly established. And now, without having a table of amendments, without notifying where these amendments are being adopted, this draft decree is being prepared, where, without reference to the rules of the Constitution, very serious things are being taken seriously, including the release of ministers, and so on. I do not approve of the agreement that took place. Moreover, I believe that the main objective of the Strategic Russian Federation was to transfer jurisdiction from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce to the Russian Federation. This is the main goal, and this is the misery that we today reap from the fact that neither in the government nor in the President's Administration has anyone listened nor listened to the opinion of the lawyers, and they themselves do not want to think or open any law. You and I in this room have ratified the laws, and today we need to hear how these laws are being implemented. We have a report on the implementation of those intergovernmental agreements between Ukraine and Turkmenistan, between Ukraine and Kazakhstan, between Ukraine and Uzbekistan, between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. These agreements are ratified and have the power of the law. No Yvchenko, no Plačko, no one else can change them. What's more, prepare other actions that are currently being planned. So I think that this decision that was given to us is extremely raw, as is the question that was raised today by the faction of BUTU and supported by both the communists and the representatives of Yanukovich and others. So, your honor, you can't do that to such serious things. They have already done so; do not help them, please continue to do so. We need the President, we need to deal with this problem, not continue to push this tension. We need a qualified consideration of the matter, a determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u58	Please, Valérie Assadchev, prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u59	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha Well, to be honest, I was a very qualified committee representative's report. I really didn't understand from this report, what is the threat to Ukraine's national security? I just want to remind my respectable friends, because this was initiated by the Julia Timoshenko faction, that when Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko was in charge of the country, and Julia Volodymyrna was in the gas market, Ukraine was buying 80 dollars of gas in Russia, 80 dollars of gas, and that's all they know. And that's the kind of thing that went down. So this is one of the criminal structures in Ukraine. And now I would like to remind you one more thing that I always remind the Chief of the Supreme Council, right now, there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich, that today many political forces want to gain a rating, are throwing in various threats decisions. But then they will be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. And he will have to bear direct responsibility for these decisions, as will the majority who will vote for them. And finally, now for the operative part. I don't think there's a single point in this operative part, I think it's worth writing. It should be written: We owe the Russian Federation and its management the obligation to sell 50 dollars of gas to Ukraine. Because if your decision becomes effective, but Russia doesn't sell us 50 dollars, it's going to sell 230 instead of 95, I don't know who's going to take direct responsibility. And I think he's going to be directly responsible for the Chief of the Supreme Council and for the majority who vote in favour of this decree. So the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party thinks that let's not be, and Block Kostenka and Plushka thinks that let's not engage in political crackdown. With these decrees, you can't correct Julia Volodymyrna's already crazy rating. Because today, all of Ukrainian society knows that it's in most of them with bushmen and communists. And that's how she votes, and she's voting against the interests of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u60	John the Rabbit. Sergei Shevchuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u61	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to be an attorney for the government right now. I am deeply convinced that a much better deal could have been made with the Russian Federation if the fifth column had not been organized in Ukraine. That fifth column, which sent the government to resign, had been torpedoed by a government that had actually served Russian interests. So let us speak responsibly. You called that wolf out of the woods today, today you encouraged Russia to go to the extreme against Ukraine just to overthrow this hateful orange power. So people know and value you very well have made up who you are. Today, they shed tears for what seems to be a bad deal. Yes, a bad deal, but you've made no less than a government, perhaps more so that this deal is so bad, because for you the principle “The worse is the better.” Here's your principle. Now it's about the deciding part. Again, if you and logic are all right and you've already retired the government, how can you re-release the ministers who are already in retirement today? I mean, as our sharps say, if you're freeing them twice, you're probably assigning them. Is that how I understand it or not? So what I'm saying is that such serious things can't be given to people so frivolously. This is not the way to write a decree that cannot withstand any criticism from either the legal or the political side. So this confirms once again that you want just evil, evil to this state and nothing else, because you have to understand that the gas conflict has not ended, that the Ukrainian government's argument with Russia is still ongoing. And if you're weakening Ukrainian power today, if you're resigning it today, whether you want it or not, you're pouring water on the mill of the mob forces that are doing this massacre with Ukraine today. I understand very well the interests of corporate, oligarchic. We know very well that at least 3 oligarchic clans, which are eastern, Donetsk, depropetroval and Kievic, were just formed on a gas pipe, on an oil pipe. And you don't see any more of this gas interest today. You don't see national interests. You don't see your citizens. You see only one way to move one structure, and the other you put your structure and the turbans, and the drums, or whatever it is, it's a national good. So come on, folks, you go to the right field, you go to the Constitution. And only in the Constitution can we find a way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u62	Thank you. We have another speaker, Sergey Shevchuk, and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The draft decision in the first reading, as you know, was adopted a week ago. It would seem that such a sharp topic should have generated some understanding and clarification from government structures for the people’s deputies, industrial managers, and every citizen of Ukraine. Instead, the week was full of silence, and only at the meeting of the profile committee did we learn that the signatories of this agreement went to Moscow without any technical task of the government, without any government directive, which is a necessary condition for any delegation when it goes beyond Ukraine. This directive should contain a limit on the tolerance, but the agreement is signed only by oral instruction. Who? We'll find out a little bit later. And now, essentially. During this period, the silence of the government has led to more than 120 leaders of Ukraine's largest industrial enterprises. I briefly quote their letters. “We are surprised and outraged by the lack of professional and transparent negotiations with the Russian side on the gas issue. As a result of “agreements reached”, in quotes, Ukraine has received extremely harsh conditions under which the national economy cannot function without a prolonged decline”. It's not politicians, it's not diplomats, it's industry and entrepreneurs who say it. According to World Bank experts, such as representations in Ukraine to sign a contract for the purpose of reducing gross domestic product by about two percent per year. And I'm going to tell the Ukrainian citizens that the vast majority of social benefits are only 1 percent of GDP, so we can't care about this kind of secret diplomacy. Thus, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko initiated the first reading of the issue and the draft decree. We are grateful to the committee responsible for considering the matter. The draft Decision foresees very important things, and I will read: “To commit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to all relations with Russia and Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, which relate to the provision of Ukraine natural gas to regulate on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and their subsequent mandatory ratification.” Do you mind, honourable parliamentarians, controlling this process? The draft regulation contains a number of items relating to personnel issues, such as Placzkova, such as Yvchenka, and the Minister of Chief. I propose that this item be included as well. Finally, the draft decree contains a political assessment of the so - called covenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u64	We're done here. With a motive, please. Nigger, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! The problem is overly politicized. I'm inclined to politicize a lot of problems myself, but I think we've gone too far in this direction. I'm critical of the effectiveness of the government, I'm critical of the signed agreement on gas, I'm critical of the president, I'm critical of Parliament and To yourself. But what am I calling for? I call on two things: responsibility for our actions, and I urge that we do not go outside the legal field. There is, indeed, a problem. But what is the mistake of Parliament? In that, in an effort to resolve it, Parliament went out of the legal field. I urge you to return to the legal field and not continue to walk out of this legal field, we cannot find success on this path. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u66	Yes, Hubsky, please, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I am confident that Ukraine has been given up and signed for $230 of gas, no gas from Russia for 95 is all talk, and the price is 230. What Russia wanted to do. The second question is very strange. They transferred the court’s ruling to a dispute from Stockholm to Moscow. And they will say that Ukraine was not handed over to the Russians? They betrayed our national interests. All those involved in this national disgrace must bear the responsibility. In accordance with the existing Constitution, part 12, article 85, by law, sent the whole government to resign, sadly, officials and clerics cannot agree that they have been deprived of any authority. Now I specifically propose to add one paragraph to the regulation. To relieve Chief Sergey Petrovich of his position as Acting Minister of Justice of Ukraine. For giving in to Ukraine’s interests, he did not legally enforce the relevant judicial decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u68	Yes, Boris Bespali, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u69	Boris Nepaly “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! We were to consider the decree in the second reading. I mean, a comparative table instead of a publicist document again, but I don't want to get on the formal side of the case right now. Although formally, this decree raises serious doubts about its constitutionality. I want to address you, and notice what's going on outside the Supreme Council today. There's ice on the street, but Ukraine's gas-supplied. And gas is only provided because the government has done well, and perhaps forced under pressure to some extent, but designed, and as far as possible in those conditions. So I'm convinced that we had to give him all the support right now so that we could act as coherently as the Russians do, and not now push the knife into the back and make the decision that is meant to freeze the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u70	Boris Bespaly, the next Nadragah. Oh, I'm sorry, Basil Nadrag, next Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that someone has a memory problem. First, what was called an agreement was signed, and then the Government was retired, not vice versa. And that's why talking about who's helping the country survive. I'd like to start by saying that chronology says the agreement first and then the resignation. And part of the hero of our Media Head. I have no objection to the right of the Minister of Justice to have his own opinion. But when he says it's time to put the Supreme Council on the stand yesterday at the TV screen, I don't want to be a bastard. As for those who sing to him, be for them, and let them persecute you. And the Chief, if he's the Minister, thinks he's talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u72	Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, like everyone, is concerned about the gas crisis in the state and there is no one here, and there can be no ambiguity. The Socialist faction expressed its position in as critical a statement as possible, and we do not deviate from it. But we're against oppression, we're against demanding blood day after day. On the basis of a statement, let's say it could be accepted, but the decisive part requires substantial correction and substantive editing. We are ready to support the second, third and fourth paragraphs, which are assigned to the Court of Auditors, the Attorney-General's Office and where it is recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers set up monitoring boards at NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and in monopolistic companies. Of course, there is a need for State control here and there for serious control and for Parliament, because today Parliament is responsible for the government's activities. But once again, we are against demanding endless blood. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Pay attention! I propose to change the name of the order. Suggested: “On the unskilled actions of the executive authorities to provide natural gas to Ukrainian consumers”. Who is in favour of that name of decree, please vote. [[17:46:12]] For 240 They accepted the name. Dear colleagues. By factions, please, by factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 59, Communists - 54, National Party - 39, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 34, Socialists - 0, National Block of Lithuania - 19, Social-Democratic Party - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Rebirth", Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, "Reforms and Orders" - zero, "One Ukraine" - 9, "Afterfractional" - 7. [[united]] Dear colleagues, we've accepted the name. Now, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. During our consideration of the matter, a draft decision was made on the impermissibility of the ruling. Let us now act wisely. Please, Sergey Žizko, three minutes. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u75	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. The Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on the National Security Threat to Ukraine in relation to the unskilled activities of the executive authorities in providing natural gas to Ukrainian consumers cannot be supported for the following reasons. Paragraph four proposes that the incumbent of the duties of Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine Plačkov be released. Paragraph five of the draft decision proposes to express Ichchenk's mistrust as the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which is the result of his dismissal by the Cabinet of Ministers. According to part two of article 6 of the Constitution: the legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Under article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The appointment for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Head of the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. The dismissal of the listed persons, the resolution of the question of the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is, the stated standard of the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not as a performer of duties. The headship of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, in general, does not refer to a list of positions for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine may express its mistrust. In view of the fact that the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the threat of national security in connection with the unqualified actions of the executive authorities to provide natural gas to Ukrainian consumers is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with articles 3.5.1. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that it be rejected, rejected, rejected and rejected. And what I'm saying is, in this case, it's not about gas, it's not about how or whether or not it's about success, or whether it's failure to buy it, and it's not about prices. This is about a change of power in Ukraine. Because this is just a reason to do something about it, but it's a reason to hit not only the government, but the President of Ukraine. The point is that the forces involved in the political operation designed in Moscow, these satellites, which were formed in the previous 10 years by Kuchma and came to the Supreme Council in 2002, are obsolete and should not carry out the political responsibilities they carry out. These forces have now set a goal, not about gas, but about changing power in Ukraine and tightening Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u76	Yes. Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft decree 8682-dp, the author of the legislative initiative of the national MP Žizko, on the inadmissibility of the ruling. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:50:56]] For-99 No decision taken. Dear colleagues, be careful. I'm going to take the concrete part and leave only one sentence. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, having considered the situation that resulted from the provision in 2006 of gas to the population in the socio-economic and industrial spheres, stresses that, as a result of unskilled actions by the government, Ukraine, its economy and population, is in real danger of significant losses.” Take the rest. Second offer. I suggest we take the first point where we evaluate the agreement and so on. We give the commission, we ask, we ask that this evaluation not be with you, but that it is qualified, so that the first point is taken. And now, please, there was an offer, I'm going to put it separately, there was an offer to write in the same order the paragraph on the exemption of Sergio Petrovich the Chief from the duties of the minister of justice Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[17:52:28]] For 241 It's on. So I put to the vote, I put to the vote, for the reasons of the vote, please write down, three minutes with the motivation of the vote, three minutes, please. Please, Matthew. Now, now. We'll figure it out. Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Matthew. You and I are now in the voting process. For what reasons are you now giving the word and especially giving the opportunity to write it down? So we should now vote on the proposed draft decision and adopt it, not go back to discussing the problem that we are already talking about for almost 40 minutes. That's why I'm proposing a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u78	Dear colleagues. Alexander Bandurka, get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u79	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear colleagues, especially majors, as long as no one has been in the district, stay in the near future, even if the day after tomorrow we will have the opportunity. And businesses on the verge of a stop. People are excited about whether there will be gas, prices are rising despite the fact that we've set up a moratorium here and given proper government orders. Of course, the intervention of the Supreme Council must be immediate. We have to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u80	Boris Bespali, son of Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u81	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u82	Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u83	Lilia Grigorovich. People are good! First of all, I appeal to the electorate and then to the national deputies, who still want to carry out their duties. People are good! These 240-250 people want to win the election like that, they can't. They're willing to drive you into cold houses, they're willing to turn off the heat for your children, for your families, they're willing to have you out of budget just to reanimate the bushmism you denied last year by electing the People's President. People are good, save Ukraine and save your last year's choice! You have to give an assessment to these political forces, which are called “NO YES!”, TALL and Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u84	Sergey Sinchenko, please
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u85	Please pass the word to Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u86	Sergei Shevchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The agreement, which was signed, is one scary date on July 1, 2006. What happens to gas prices in this period we don't know. But we know what will happen in Ukraine, there will be parliamentary elections in Ukraine, there will be a majority in the new parliament and there will be a new government. This agreement, signed in Moscow, lays the groundwork for a new government, a new leadership of the state already having problems since the first day of its existence, as the price of gas will rise substantially. Thus, we propose to vote in favour of the draft decree and, in principle, we would like the BUT faction to remain a definite part, but for the sake of compromise, we agree with the proposal made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u88	We're going to vote now. There was a proposal from Assadchev, we will vote and we will. Please make it, he made a proposal to the decision. Please, it's Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u89	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy I made a proposal, asking her to vote on this provision: to oblige the Russian Federation to abide by the contractual conditions that were in place before the signing of the agreement of January 4, 2006. I'm asking you to put it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! We can commit to what is within the jurisdiction of our nation. When we are at the head of the state, where Russia will be, then we will and will oblige it. So let's not be absurd. So, your honorary colleagues, with the amendments that we've voted on, the only thing that could be given not until February 1st, but at least February 15th? There will be no objection. By February 15th. And with these amendments that we voted on, and with the name that we voted on, with the commission of the committee to do the right thing, I'm voting on the whole adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the unqualified actions of the executive authorities to provide consumers of Ukraine with natural gas, registration number 8682-d. Please vote. [[17:57:57]] For 246 I'll take the order. By faction, please, by factions: Regional Party - 60, Communists - 55, National Party - 40, Our Ukraine - 0, “Timoshenko Block” - 35, Socialists - 0, “Lithuania People’s Block” - 20, Social Democrats - 19, Ukrainian People’s Party, “Rebirth”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Orders” - 0, “Ukraine” - 9, non-fractional - 8. [[United]] Dear colleagues, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00. Good luck.
