ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. We'll keep working. I want to say it again. You must know me in four years of work. If I said that without the consent of the Supreme Council, we would not make a decision on which there is no compromise, that is what it will be. Take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Once again, I want to say that we will not discuss the issue of swearing judges until we have an understanding. So let's keep working, take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:01]] I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Pension Insurance and Social Protection of Military Servants, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 16.03.2006, registration number 3718-2, is under review. Reporter Matvijczuk Vladimir Makarovich, Deputy Minister of Finance You don't? Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u2	The president of Ukraine returned the law, as reported by the Chairman. Three positions: The President does not support an increase of 10 per cent in pensions in the event of a loss of a breadwinner for members of the families of military personnel and others who are entitled to an appropriate pension and who are dead or missing. He refused to support a five - percent increase in pension for service years for military personnel, participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, referred to in the first, second category, and the offer to give parents, wives, husbands, if they did not remarry, military personnel who are entitled to an adequate pension when such persons died, died, or were missing when the pension service went through at the age or disability or benefit of years and pensions in the event of the loss of a breadwinner. We think that these proposals are such that they are unacceptable. This is the position of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The main legal administration in adopting this law has made no comment. The fact that there are no additional budget expenditures is not stated, we're going to make up for what the law is proposing to take effect on January 1st, 2007. So these issues will be resolved when the budget is adopted. In this regard, we propose that the President’s veto be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please put your cards in place. We're only looking at laws that apply to the President's veto right now. The issue of swearing and judges of the Constitutional Court will not be considered today. Let's work then. We made a deal with you, and you agreed, and a delegation came to talk to me. Yes, please show the registration of members of the board. The factions, please. Yes, there are: The regions of Ukraine are 58. Cards are being inserted. Now, let's wait then. Block Timoshenko – 36, National Party – 34, “Our Ukraine” – 38, SPU – 28, National Block – 20, SDPU(o) – 15. Come on, please. Ukrainian People's Party - 16, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 11, Rebirth - 9, Reforms and Orders - 13, non-fractional - 19. May I have your attention, distinguished national MPs? - is put to the vote a proposal by the Committee on Overcoming the Veto of the President of Ukraine for the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Pension Insurance and Social Protection of Military Servants. Registration number 3718-2. Please vote. [[16:07:38]] For 233 The decision is not taken. What is the position of the committee, please, Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov. Dear colleagues, you're getting mobilized because you're just burning the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u4	It is proposed that the law be passed taking into account the president's remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u5	I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension and social protection of military personnel, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, and then in the new edition. Registration number 3718-2. Please vote. [[16:08:30.]] For 253 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the only social protection standards for educational, cultural and health workers, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 17.03, has been announced for consideration. In 2006 Registration number 7013. Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, please. Oh, there is. First Deputy of Finance, Matwijczuk Vladimir Makarovich. Please, Volodymyr Makarovich. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Supreme Council Act of 23 February 2006 “On amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the implementation of the only social protection standards for education, culture and health” cannot be signed by the President on these grounds. The Act provides for amendments to article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, Article 77 of the Basic Health Legislation and Article 29 of the Basic Law on Culture on the establishment of specific categories of education, health care, supplementary benefits and guarantees. In particular, it is proposed to establish educational, scientific and educational, medical and pharmaceutical workers, as well as cultural workers working in public and municipal institutions, as appropriate, health and cultural protection in villages and villages, with a monthly allowance of 25 per cent of the official salary. Pensioners who have previously worked in the fields of culture in villages and villages living in such populated areas are entitled to free use of heating and lighting housing within the limits of established standards. In addition, medical and pharmaceutical workers, as well as cultural workers, are provided with the legislative strengthening of their right to receive benefits for the benefit of years, the annual salary for conscientious work, the exemplary performance of their duties, and the assistance for recovery. Without denying the need to increase the social protection of the listed categories, the President's statement stated that the implementation of the Act, based on the minimum wage, for example, 400 dollars, would require additional expenditure of almost 4.3 billion dollars. In particular, the provision of supplements to teachers and academics in the range of nearly 0.7 billion dollars. The establishment of other allowances, allowances and remunerations for health workers is about 3 billion dollars. And giving the cultural aid to the workers 0.6 billion dollars. Such an additional amount of budget expenditure cannot really be provided with the necessary financial resources. However, no proposals were made regarding the sources of such expenses for violating the requirements of article 27 of the budget code when the Law was passed and the Law did not contain such standards. In view of what has been said, the law that has come is proposed to be rejected by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee. Mikhail Vasilovich, out of place, right? Turn on the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, this is a very important law that all social workers are waiting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u8	Yes, the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood reviewed these proposals by the President and made suggestions, I ask for support, to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u9	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. The President of Ukraine's proposal will first be put to the vote. The proposal made by the President of Ukraine is that this Law should be rejected. And then, if the President's proposal is not accepted, we'll put the veto to the vote. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the implementation of the only social protection standards for educational, cultural and health workers, registration number 7013-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:13:15]] For-44 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the implementation of the only social protection standards for educational, cultural and health workers, registration number 7013-1. Please vote. [[16:14:00]] For 276 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 57 Communists – 51, Block of Timoshenko – 33, People's Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 1, SPI – 28, National Block – 20, SDPU(o) – 15, Ukrainian People's Party – 15, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 0, “Rebirth” – 3, “Reforms and Orders” – 2, non-fractional – 15. Cibenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u10	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The law that we've tried to break the President's veto right now is extremely important, it needs a law. What's more, in a year that's declared a year in the village, putting in 25 percent pay to people who've been sent to the village, I think it's a small compensation for the conditions in which a person works. I would very much ask my colleague to return to this law, to vote it. Once again, it's about standard harmonization for all areas of culture. Secondly, the introduction of a 25 percent wage for rural work. And in principle, this law is extremely necessary and important. So, Your Honor, I would like to ask you to support the proposal to return to this document and overcome the President's veto on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u11	Sergey Shevchuk, please. And invite the deputies to the session room. Then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u12	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Dear colleagues, we are finishing our work in this office. And this legislative act that we are currently considering may be one of those successful steps that the Supreme Council can take. These are benefits for humanitarian workers, medical professionals, cultural workers, education workers, and the benefits they have been waiting for. I want to say that medical personnel in Ukraine pay for 29 positions. The wages of Ukrainian medical personnel are much lower than in Belarus, and they have been several times lower in recent times than in Russia. So our request is convincing, Your Honor, to return to this issue and vote against the President's veto. This will be true of those who unselfishly serve the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u13	Thank you. Carmazine, please, microphone, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u14	Dear fellow MPs. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like you to take a close look at this law. There's no one to take money from in the village, no one. It's in the cities they're taking extra money from, and in the villages. So it's suggested that from January 1st 2007, 25 percent of the salary allowance be kept there by specialists so that they can live there, that their families grow there. So I don't understand those MPs who today look at the fact that there's no money, there's never going to be any money if you don't want to do better for people. I'd like to support you now and vote again and defeat the veto. There will come a government that will find where to find the money that will find the money. Poverty must be eradicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to take a closer look at this law. The point is that it has been in operation since January 1, 2008. It's about providing for those people who work directly in the countryside: doctors, educators, cultural workers. We're not risking anything this year's budget and next year's. It's pretty obvious that the budget is going to go up. May I have your attention, I'll take a vote. Who would like to return to the Ukrainian Law, registration number 7013-1, please vote. Go back to the law. [[16:18:52]] For 276 We have returned to the consideration of this law. Let's support our future government so that they can work for growth and find the funds to implement this law since 2008. I am voting on the veto for the President's law, on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, registration number 7013-1. [[on the implementation of the single social protection standards for educational, cultural and health workers]] Please vote. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[16:19:41]] For 289 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 58, Communists – 51, Block of Timoshenko – 33, National Party – 37, “Our Ukraine” – 3, SPI – 28, National Block – 20, SPDU(O) – 15, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, Rebirth – 7, Reforms and Orders – 3, Postfraction – 14. The Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Lists of State Property Objects Not Privatized” with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 17.03. In 2006 Registration number 8019-6. Reporter First Deputy Minister of Economy Sergey Andriyovich Romanyuk, please prepare Demyokin briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u16	Dear National Deputies! This law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The provisions of the Act from 2006 to 2007 prohibit the privatisation of a package of shares belonging to the State in the charter fund of the Open Stock Exchange Company, Ukranafta. The Act was adopted by the Supreme Council on a one-person basis without the involvement of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is a violation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, according to which the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, it should be added that the appropriate State has a 50 per cent VAT package, plus one share transferred to the statutory fund of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which is included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, which is approved by law on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation. As a result, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u17	Please, Vladimir Demyohin. You don't? Kirichenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u18	Deputies! I want to draw your attention to everyone, look, for the second time, it's the President's reinstatement of these laws. What Is the Basis? It is based on the assumption that we can adopt these laws only from the assumption of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. If that's the case, why do you need the Supreme Council? I think we should show that the President is wrong. The President, first of all, is violating the Supreme Council's law by winding up the drafts. And in fact, to show that the Supreme Council today is the body that has to deal with these issues. I ask you to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a paradoxical situation. In accordance with the requirements of the Law, the Cabinet of Ministers is to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a privatization programme. Unfortunately, we have not received this document and, at the same time, the President is saying that the Cabinet of Ministers should make proposals and there are no proposals. I then put to the vote the first sentence of the President of Ukraine on the rejection of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatised. Registration No. 8019-6. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:23:43]] For-9 Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's get to the vote. The proposal for a committee on the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of State Property Objects Unprivatised. Registration No. 8019-6. It's about Skrnaft. Please vote. [[16:24:33]] For 239. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this can be done. It says here that privatization is prohibited for the period 2006-2007. Let's add 2008 and vote in a new edition and send it to the President of Ukraine. Please, the microphone of Alexander Aleksandrovitch Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am addressing the faction of our Ukraine. Look at the Ministry's argument. Privatisation cannot be prohibited because the association is part of the NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, which is prohibited from privatising. But we know that, according to the decree of the previous President, NAC dealt with these issues. I would ask, if that's the case, the more you can vote for this law, for overcoming the veto. And those who were preparing for the President's veto probably didn't give him the ability to think about what he was proposing. Let us, therefore, protect the interests of the State, because the Ukranafta is an extremely important sector. And by defending, including the President’s authority, we will vote together in favour of overcoming the veto and preserving it as a state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u21	Yes, we are then. No, it's not. By 2008? Dear colleagues! So there's no warning if we set out to ban privatization until 2008? So in a new edition, it's proposed to adopt this law with precision, including this year, 2008. 2006, 2007, 2008 is prohibited from privatising the ‘Ukranafta’. I'm voting this proposal, the registration number is 8019-6 in a new edition. Please vote. [[16:26:59]] For 242 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Lists of Objects of State Property Rights Not Privatized”, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 17.03, has been announced for consideration. In 2006 Registration number is 6310-1. First Deputy Minister of Economics Sergey Romanyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The Act prohibits privatization for the years 2006-7 of the Open Shareholder Association of the Majak Company. This, the business is a major economic activity, is not a property right, which is not subject to privatization under the Ukrainian State Privatization Act. I would like to add that the decision to privatise the Mayan factory in Kiev was taken in the year 95 by order of the State Property Fund. On the basis of what has been said, the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Article 1 of the Law on Listing of State Property Objects Not Subject to Privatisation” is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Have a seat. The position of the committee is the same. Well. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Because there are similar warnings that there was no program. Please, Deputy Mother. Microphone. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u24	Vladimir Mikhailovich, for one thing, does not understand why this law is adopted in such a form. We passed a six - year ban. And he was accepted in the first reading. I don't understand how he got to the president. It was a few days ago, Sunday or two. So you don't understand how this law ever got here? There was a change in the edition of the 2006 ban. And that's the law. As the law came back in 2006-2007, it's not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u25	I think that was just when you weren't in the session room. For the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed this law on February 23, not a few days ago. And the President of Ukraine gave us a proper consideration and sent it to us. What, right? Dear colleagues, this is where we come in because of the reading, I apologize to my esteemed colleague. Let's maybe do it this way. Now let's put to the vote the President's motion for rejection and then vote "in 2006-2008" in a new edition. No warning? I put to the vote first the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian law concerning the Mayak enterprise. [[Registration number 6310-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[4:30.45.]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The vote is based on a proposal for adoption in a new edition, adding that the moratorium on the privatisation of the company is being extended for 2006 - 2008. Please vote in the new edition of Law 6310-1. [[16:31:22]] For 254 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Social Protection Laws, which resides in observation zones, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 21.03, has been announced for consideration. In 2006 [[Registration number 5753]] Reporter, Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, to prepare Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The President of Ukraine applied the veto on the signing of the Ukrainian Act of 23 February 2006 adopted by the Supreme Council “On amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social protection of the population living in observation zones”. The proposed legislative amendments to the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act provide that the population of uranium mining, nuclear installations, radiation waste management facilities since 1 January 2007 shall have the right to establish a specific energy consumption regime, social infrastructure in the observation zone, as well as annual medical monitoring in the observation zone. The Act also proposes to amend article 17 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act on the mandatory inclusion in retail electricity tariffs for the population living in the observation zone, socio-economic compensation for the risk of living in the zone, and to take account of the extent of such compensation in the regulation of electricity tariffs produced at nuclear power stations. The President's proposals for the bill are as follows: the introduction of an annual medical monitoring of the population in the observation area will require an additional 2.4 billion dollars per year, depending on the fact that there are 6 million people living in the area, and one person's medical monitoring costs about 400 dollars per year. However, the sources of such expenses, contrary to article 27 of the Code of Budgets, are not designed, among other things, to cover social infrastructure costs in the area of observation. Under these circumstances, the implementation of the stated provisions of the law can lead to a budget balance that does not correspond to the stated article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the principle of the desire of the State to balance the budget and to the underfunding of other social programmes. Expansion of socio-economic compensation due to the creation of social infrastructure will result in double compensation to the population in question, as the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security defines the use of part of the funds invested in the construction of uranium ore mining plants, nuclear installations, and radioactive waste facilities for the construction of social objects. The introduction of a special energy saving regime will increase population subsidies for the year 170.2 million dollars. Therefore, the President's proposals apply to rejecting the stated law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Bronnikov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! We remember how the President recently presented an energy development programme. We remember that there are more than 20 atomic blocks that need to be set up soon. But the President, as a guarantor of the nation, forgot that it was necessary to ensure the safety of the people who would live and work near these atomic blocks. We passed Chernobyl with you. The Committee therefore categorically insists on overcoming the President's veto, and the President needs to understand what the Government is advising him to do, do they intend to implement the energy programme approved by the President's decree? I'm asking you to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u29	Yes, distinguished national MPs, I would ask you to take these suggestions and take them into account. It says here that the Ministry of Finance will need two billion 400 million people per year in the observation zone. That's right. It's just one minute, this figure is taken from the ceiling, because if it were to count the Ministry of Finance, obviously we have 16.7 billion. is focused on health care. So you subtract what's going on for one person. Because if you follow your logic, according to the logic of the Ministry of Finance, you have to lie down and die because you don't always have enough money. We'd like to move the Ministry of Finance to Kirovograd, where the uranium is there, and from there we'd see what proposals are going to sound like. Instead of talking about what decisions we need to make, stupid, sorry about that word, there's always no money. As for children of war, there is no money, no money. When they were sitting here in opposition, they talked about how much money was being hidden. [[Applause]] I therefore put to the vote the first sentence, the first proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Social Protection Laws, which resides in Observation Zones. Registration number 5753. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:37:26]] For-24 The decision is not taken. There's nothing to put on factions. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the President's veto committee to amend some of Ukraine's social protection laws that live in observation zones. Registration number 5753. Please vote. [[16:38:06]] For 254 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it was written that since January 1, 2007, this law has been introduced. Let's write "from July 1, 2007" and maybe by now there'll be money. And we'll take it in a new edition. What do we do? I am betting on the adoption vote in the new edition to clarify the date of the introduction of this law as of July 1, 2007. Please vote. [[16:38:47]] For 253 Decision taken. The law was adopted in a new edition. Please, Yuri Carmazin with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, you've seen it written that balances the budget for this year, when the law is passed for the following year, for 2007. How can he balance a budget that is not yet in place? How can we balance what is not? We all promised that people would be paid for their risk. We said that part of that money would be compensated, because now we have to build those nuclear clouds. What do we think now, people? I'm talking to those who didn't vote. Who will live there today? Why do all people today leave and look for work? And then they tell us that the double use of the funds is. So I think whoever made these proposals for the President just doesn't have a soul. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about intelligence, because otherwise he would have looked at the State Budget Act and looked at what was being done for 2007 instead of 2006. So I firmly deny such an act. We should call these things our names, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u31	Thank you. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on Compensation for Population of a 30km Risk Zone for the Placement of Atomic Power Plants, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 21.03, is being announced. In 2006 Registration number 8123. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister, Fuel and Energy Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security” adopted by the Supreme Council on February 25th of this year to compensate the population of a 30km risk zone for the placement of nuclear power plants” cannot be accepted for the following reasons. In the proposed bill, 50 percent of the pay for the use of electricity around nuclear power plants does not meet the world standards for the size of risk compensation for the relevant population groups. This is 70 percent of the current electricity tariff for the relevant population groups. The specified form of compensation has already been established on March 10, 1999, and is in operation at the time, according to a decree of the National Commission for Electricity Control. Moreover, this rule does not fall within the scope of the law in question. According to part two of article 12 of this Act, the types and extent of compensation should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers in agreement with the local authorities of the State and self-government on the basis of scientific and economic justification. Expansion of a marked reduction in the use of electricity at the same time as the recently adopted Supreme Council Act on Change in Certain Ukrainian Social Protection Laws, which establishes socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in observation zones around nuclear power plants. It is known that the size of the observation zones does not always coincide with the 30 - mile [30 - kilometer] areas around the AES. This will lead to double benefits and confusion with the implementation of these measures. In addition, the following points are made: If compensation was 85 million dollars last year, 50 percent will make up 170 million dollars this year, twice the size of 2005. At the same time, this figure will be paid more by industrial consumers, agriculture, budget organizations than by this hour. The establishment of preferences to some consumers at the expense of others is also contrary to the articles of the Constitution. In view of the above, I would like to support the President's proposal to reject the law in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u33	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Bronnikov's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has already done everything for this Government, which has organized for us the energy system that is now in force in Ukraine, the energy system, once a decision has been made on the next rise in gas prices for the population, the further rise in electricity prices. And he doesn't want to do anything for the people who produce this electricity that live. atomic stations. I therefore ask the Supreme Council to return to its decisions adopted in February and to revoke the veto of the President. We need to help our president deal with the fuel and energy complex that is now operating in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the last words that this Act would be contrary to articles 21 and 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantee the equality of constitutional rights of citizens and the inability to grant privileges on the grounds of residence. But at the same time, we have, for example, mountain areas where there are certain preferences for people. So there's no contradiction to the Constitution in that respect, and that's where it goes. That's why I'm putting forward my first motion for a vote by the President of Ukraine on the rejection of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security (for compensation for the population of the 30km nuclear power plant risk zone. Registration number 8123. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:45:48]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps we should proceed in such a way that the law remains. Let's not write January 1, 2007, but write July 1, 2007 and accept it in a new edition. No warning? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. This is Law 8123. [[16:46:29]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Who would like to return to the consideration of Law 8123, please vote. [[16:46:57]] For 232 We're back to the debate. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law, registration number 8123 in the new edition. I mean, it goes into effect on July 1, 2007. Please vote. [[16:47:28]] For 238. The law is passed. The factions, please. “Ukraine’s Regions” – 58, Communists – 48, Block Timoshenko – 9, National Party – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPI – 27, National Block – 17, SDPU(o) – 15, Ukrainian People’s Party – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, “Industries and Entrepreneurs” – 1, “Rebirth” – 6, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 13. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 22 March 2006, registration number 7387, is being announced for consideration. First Deputy Minister of Economics, Sergey Romanyuk. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u36	Respectful national deputies, adopted by law, are expected to change the high standard of placing the population in the mountain category, including a reduction in the altitude from 400 to 350 meters above sea level, and the steepness of the slopes on which agricultural conditions are located to nine degrees Fahrenheit [9 ° C]. The introduction of this standard will increase the number of mountain areas by about twofold, and the population will increase several times. The rule proposed by law on the establishment of sub-contractors' benefits at the expense of the State Budget, up to 50 per cent of the price of agricultural products implemented, produced in mountain areas, is contrary to budgetary legislation, according to which exclusively to the State Budget Act, any expenditure on the general public needs, size and purpose of these expenses is determined. It is not supported to supplement article six of the current law on the annual provision of budgetary allocations for the compensation of business entities of all forms of property that operate in the areas of mountain populated areas, the loss associated with the payment of wages allowances, since the mandatory financing of organizations that are not budget institutions at the expense of the State Budget is contrary to budgetary legislation. The law stipulates that the size of state pensions and all that is foreseen by valid legislation of types of state-owned material assistance to citizens who have received the status of a person who works and resides in mountain settlements increases by 20%, but the size of the increase should be at least 20% of the subsistence minimum. The amendments proposed in the bill are socially unfair and will result in an unjustified increase in pensions for those who have not acquired the minimum pension. The law provides for the addition of article 6 of the Ukrainian Act to the standards of admission to higher education institutions, vocational and technical institutions and courses for vocational training outside the competition and guaranteed pay-up of 50% of the scholarship to students regardless of the place of study in Ukraine. The implementation of this standard requires additional budgetary resources, as well as in contravention of article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The law provides for the granting of the right to persons who do not reside permanently in mountain settlements, but who worked there for 10 years prior to the last mountain status, or who continue to work for the recalculation and assignment of pensions, resulting from a salary increase of 20% in previous years. According to the Act on General State Pension Insurance, the remuneration for the pension is taken into account in the amount of payments that were actually calculated and paid to the Pension Fund. The law is proposed to calculate a pension from a salary that has not been paid the premium. In the light of the foregoing, the President proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act “On the Amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Populations of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u37	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee. Is Ivan Fedorovich Tomic there? Well, the committee's offering to beat the veto. Dear colleagues, the first to vote is the President's proposal to reject Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the Status of Mountain Populations of Ukraine, registration number 7387. [[16:52:10]] For-22. The President's proposal is not supported. Okay. The proposal for a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine is submitted to the vote – registration number 7387. Please vote. [[16:52:47]] For 267 The decision is not taken. The law. Yes, please, Manchulenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u38	George Manchulenko, 203rd District faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It's a long-suffering law and we've been looking at it for a long time, and we've finally adopted it, especially in terms of lowering altitudes from 400 to 350 meters and steep slopes from 12 to 9 degrees, and I know how positively the inhabitants of the different regions of the region of Chernobyl have been affected by this innovation. And it is unfortunate that the veto has been imposed, however, that this law has been introduced since the new fiscal year. I think it would be possible to actually look for funds in the state budget. So I have a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, perhaps to introduce it not since January 1, 2007, as suggested, or July 1, 2007, because of January 1, 2008, but this is essential for people living in mountain settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u39	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u40	Yes, but you only vote, because you do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u41	Eugene Gorenik. In principle, there is a whole set of laws that are rejected, and for some reason only one law is invoked. That's why the veto is prepared by the relevant service completely incorrect, and secondly, I support George Manchulenka's proposal to make a correction from 1 July 2007 with regard to the calculation by the relevant Ministry of Economics and the financials of the Committee of Budgets, and they are not tested. So please accept the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u42	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, then Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u43	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are convinced that, as we now have voted, it is absolutely illegal to legitimize the election and ban on checking them, which has already affected the courts. Because in Melitopol, the judge says, "Make a political decision." My God, Your Honor, what kind of political decisions do you have?Oh, my God! Read the Law is for those who hope. So now, for those of you who were hoping, the inhabitants of the mountain population will see who is betraying you today, who is setting up such a veto. So I suggest we put and overcome again. And since January 1, 200, pay these people who are living in extremely difficult conditions, which are now in the floods, how many people are in need. And try to grow crops there! Try to study the child there. What are you doing? Let us overcome this veto “stupid”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u44	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u45	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is that these bills were discussed at the exit meeting of the agrarian committee in Ivano-Frankishte. Anyone who has ever met the lives of our mountain people will not do what some factions have done. Let us, Your Honor, support the adoption of these laws, overcome the veto. If not, surely we need to heed Manchulenka’s and Gournik’s offer. Because we really need to support this population today. The language doesn't say that there's 100,000, it's about 30-40,000, they're going to get the status of a mountain settlement, and they're going to improve the lives of our citizens. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's Manchulenka's proposal to vote and still support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u46	Yes. Honorable National MPs. There is a motion for a return to the Ukrainian law, registration number 7387. Please vote. [[16:57:58]] For 235 We're back. Now I'm making two proposals. The first proposal was to beat the veto, and then if not, we'll determine what the terms are. You don't have to? Then I immediately put to the vote a motion for adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, specifying the date of its entry into force on 1 July 2007. Please vote. [[16:58:43]] For 256 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 188-19 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the Consideration of Deputies, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 28.03.2006, is being published. Registration number is 3159-1. Reporter of the Deputy Justice Minister, Inna Jemelyanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Act “On Amendments to Article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” adopted by the Supreme Council and amending Article 188, marking 19 of the Code on Administrative Violations” was not signed on such grounds. The law proposes to establish the right of a national deputy to address not only the head of any public authority or local government or enterprise, institution, organization or association of citizens, but also any official or other person of the designated bodies, enterprises, institutions, organizations. In doing so, it is the responsibility of the national MP to give the same answer as the one addressed by the national deputy, and this person does not necessarily have to be the leader. This does not correspond to a number of laws, other laws, which provide that it is the heads of state authorities, local authorities, who represent the designated body they lead, in relations with other authorities, and including in relations with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Moreover, article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy provides for the right of a national MP to be present when considering his parliamentary address. And at the same time, his desire to be present at the hearing of this address is reported by the National MP to the noted head of any body he has addressed. The adopted law now excludes those positions that provided for the MP's right to choose whether to be present or not. However, it is incumbent upon an official to whom they have addressed, in advance, not later than one day before considering a parliamentary request to inform the national deputy of the consideration of his parliamentary appeal. But I wanted to get your attention. What is a parliamentary appeal? That's including the appeal, to give an official explanation, to put forward the position of any body. That is, any official in the hearing of a request, in particular to the Ministry of Justice, to give an official explanation of the rule of law, at any request of the National MP, should report in one day on the consideration of this request. Even if the MP doesn't ask. In this regard, under these circumstances, the President feels that the situation established by this law cannot be supported. And he's offering to reject the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u48	Vladimir Grigorovich Matviev, chairman of the committee Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting, I informed that, in connection with the President's referral to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies and Articles 188-19 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Consideration of Deputies, he came to the Supreme Council only on 28 March this year. The committee had no opportunity to consider it in substance. And to consider nothing at all, as the President proposes that this law be repealed. So to be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as you recall, we accepted him with you in this room. Therefore, I would like to ask the vote to decide on the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and articles 808-19 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on the Consideration of Parliamentary Appeal is to be voted on. [[17:03:57]] For-16 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a second proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 188-19 of the Code on Administrative Offences on the Consideration of a Deputy Appeal. [[Registration number 3159-1]] Please vote. This is about the MPs, please, it's your right. [[17:04:38]] For 219 The law is rejected. It is announced for consideration by the President's Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the Repeal of the Law of 17.03. In 2006 Another Jemelyanova, please. It's a very important law, we need to vote it out now, dear fellows, that applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Act on Amendments to Article 20 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, adopted by the Supreme Council, was not signed by the President because he did not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. The proposed changes are intended to establish that former national deputies who have lost their jobs after their employment are eligible to join the General Service staff reserve, but they will have the right to pay for material assistance. The size of this material aid is 50 percent of the salary, taking into account all the allowances that the national MPs receive. Under these circumstances, the President believes that the exclusion of persons such as former national deputies who have lost their jobs after their employment and will have the right to pay 50 percent of this material aid would be contrary to article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which speaks of the equality of all citizens before the law and of the fact that there are no restrictions or restrictions on those or other signs. It should also be noted that adequate calculations have been made by the Ministry of Finance and it has been calculated that the recovery of the outstanding payments to a former national deputy will result in payments of 120,000 dollars a year. It is impossible to predict how much this is going to be, because it is impossible to estimate how many national deputies will need after losing their jobs, even those national MPs who were deputies for the first time. And, for example, 10 years later, they lost their jobs. In this regard, the President feels that this law, in view of its violation of article 24 of the Constitution, cannot be signed and rejected. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u52	Thank you. Please, Valentin Grigorovich, position of the committee. The position of the committee is similar to that of the Supreme Council? Invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will make a decision that determines their fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u53	Thank you. I spoke directly to both laws that are being considered regarding the subject of the Committee's knowledge of the Rules, the MPs' ethics and the organization of the Supreme Council's work. And I meant that this law, which was committed by the President of Ukraine, with his proposal to cancel, was passed by the Supreme Council, also not considered by the committee. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should therefore be determined on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now put to the vote in this order: the proposal of the President of Ukraine -- to reject, the second sentence -- to overcome the veto, given what you all think about your perspective. That is why I am voting on the first proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act "To Change Article 20" of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Registration number 8714, about the deviation. [[17:08:43]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? A second proposal is put to the vote – to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Act "To Change Article 20" of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Registration number 8714. Please vote. Vote, this is for you. Dear colleagues, vote, this is a decision for you. [[17:09:21]] For 284 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I'm voting for a return to the consideration of this law. Spread out. [[17:09:48]] For 309 We're back. I am voting for the defeat of the President of Ukraine's veto on Law 8714. Please vote. [[17:10:16]] For 307 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 03.04.2004, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 8047. Dear colleagues, before this law, the President made his remarks, they are all taken into account and agreed, that is, agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Secretary of Defense. There is every reason to adopt this law in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I am voting on this proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service, in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 8047, please vote. [[17:11:35]] For 288 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the breastplate of the National Deputy of Ukraine is announced for consideration. Registration number 6016. This is proposed to be removed from the draft law. No warning? I'm voting on this proposal. Registration number 6016. Please vote. Take it off the table, yeah. [[17:12:23]] For 222 Dear colleagues, we need to take it off the table, just a technical question. I'm betting on the vote: the removal of the draft law and the decrees of the relevant Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote for the withdrawal. [[17:12:57]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on military and technical cooperation is under review. Is there no objection to making a decision? None. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on military and technical cooperation, registration number 0330. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:13:48]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Who's in favour of going back to the draft Law 0330, please vote. Well, there was no warning, dear fellows! May I have your attention, please? All right, everybody, let's vote! Vote, please. [[17:14:15]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of His Majesty Sultan and Yang DiPertuan to Brunei Darussalam on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and the Protocol to this Agreement is being announced. Registration number 0331. Who is warned about such a document? I am voting on the approval of the draft Law registration number 0331. I won't read it anymore. Please vote. [[17:15:11]] For 247 I've been working. Dear colleagues, yes, one minute. A draft law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine is being announced for consideration during 2001 - 2004. We've been looking into it. For technical reasons, we don't have enough simple, respectable colleagues, voices. I would like to draw attention to the vote on the return to the draft Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, 2001-2004. Registration number 7813. Please vote. Please vote. Everyone votes, everyone votes, respectable colleagues. [[17:16:14]] For-198 Please focus, please insert your cards. I'm voting for a return to the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u55	There's everything here, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u56	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u57	Let's check it out. Check it out, please. That the system doesn't work. Please insert the cards correctly, everyone. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine during 2001-2004, registration number 7813. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[17:17:30.]] For 209 There's not enough desire. Well, let's finish on the positive notes, or we don't have anything left to go on now to other issues that you don't want to consider. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 37, National Party – 25, “Our Ukraine” – 36, SPI – 21, National Block – 20, SPDU(O) – 2, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 5, “Rebirth” – 7, “Reforms and Orders” – 11, non-fractional – 9. Yes, Your Honor, once again, I put to the vote: who's in favour of going back to the draft law, registration number 7813? Please vote. Go back to the study. Vote, please. [[17:18:44]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Yes, attention is paid to voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas. Registration number 8158-1. Please vote. [[17:19:21]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Who's to it? May I have your attention, please? Who's to it? But it's working, I'm looking here. It's working for us, I'm watching. The cards on the board are working. Now let's check again. Who, dear colleagues, is to return to the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Hmylnik of the Winnitsky Region by a resort of State importance. Registration number 8158-1, please vote. [[17:20:18]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Questions are not included in the agenda. So, honourable national MPs, what are we going to do next, huh? I'm asking for your attention. So let's think about it this way. Calm down, dear fellows. We agreed to do it that way. That April 26th, may I have your attention, please calm down? April 26th, now we're not going to make any decisions, no more cards. On April 26, at 10 a.m., Parliamentary hearings will take place. I think everyone needs to be. Planetary tragedy, 20 years of Chernobyl disaster. Somewhere, I think we need two or three hours to hold parliamentary hearings. After that, we will solemnly close the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're going to finish the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine IV. I'd like you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, not to measure your position on other people. If I'm speaking, it means exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-04-04-m1.u58	I believe you, too. Then we will solemnly close the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call with all the necessary measures dedicated to this remarkable historical event. No warning? That is, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Working on committees, factions and districts up to 26. No votes. Yeah. If necessary, when you insist, we will call a meeting.
