ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies! invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:46]] There are 421 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, today he celebrates his birthday, Vladimir Georgievovich Karpuk. Let's give him a warm welcome. [[Applause]] Yes, please listen to the announcement. On the basis of personal statements made by Ukrainian national deputies Demidek Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Dimčin Vasil Vasilovich, Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovich, Mitroškin Igor Alexandrovich, Rozgonjeva Mikhail Vasilovich, Falka Vladimir Ivanovich, Jakmenka Mikoli Evgeniyovich and Bogchuk Vasil Stepanović, Zubka Jurija Grigorovich inform of their entry into the Antichristian Coalition of Deputate factions – Party of Regions, Socialist Party of Ukraine and Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[members of the Party of the Regions' MPs]] [[Members of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, I ask, especially the leaders, the heads of the MP factions, because there were certain remarks to the presiding officers, and I think they make sense that we will be guided by the Rules, which say that the announcements are made before the beginning of the morning session. That is, do not insist in the next one that a similar kind of announcement should be made by the presiding officers at the meeting of the Supreme Council in the course of the meeting itself. We'll wait for the next plenary start of the day and do it. The Conciliation Board has decided on the schedule for the plenary week for this September 19-22, it's given to you. We'll work with you. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present the authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'm informing you, Your Honor, that yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting, the question was raised that, since we're scheduled for 30 minutes of factions, when you and I were taking part in the previous meeting of the Rules, we couldn't predict how many factions there will be, and today we have 5 of them, we've come to the conclusion that to make the necessary changes, I think we're going to bring in a five-minute delay on Tuesdays from the factions. Because 5 to the 25 is going to be going to be this 30 that's set out in the Rules. But since these changes are not yet in place, I am voting. Who's in favour of allowing the factions to speak for five minutes today, please vote. [[10:05:10]] For 401 Decision taken. I'd like the factions to sign up for a statement from the rostrum. Here comes the recording. Yes, thank you. Please, Stretovich Volodymir Mikolajovic. Light up on the board. Strativitch, are you ready? To whom do you give the word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u2	A statement from the faction of our Ukraine. The faction "Our Ukraine" expresses its outrage at the attempt of the financial and social bloc of the government of Yanukovic to review one of the main social conquests of the Orange Revolution with a high amount of help at the birth of the child. The introduction of a decent amount of help at the birth of a child was one of the key features of President Viktor Yushchenk's electoral program. And this position has been implemented. Since April 1, 2005, the birth of a child has been increased by 11 times. During this time, more than half a million Ukrainian mothers have received such assistance. The State guaranteed to each family or single mother who gave birth to a child the payment of thousands of 500 dollars each. Each mother, regardless of her place of employment, residence, family members, and other circumstances, was assured that she would receive the funds. This program has been a major material support for every newborn, raising the trust of people in the state. In the first half of this year, the birth rate increased by seven percent. This is the highest rate in the last few decades. However, according to article 60 of the government’s 2007 government budget, the government, led by Yanukovic, has decided to pay this aid depending on the family’s total income and the number of people who are not working in the family. The same is true of the very ideology of birth assistance, for the main thing in this aid is that all children in Ukraine are equal, that every mother can receive State support at minimum cost, and that the state in this way encourages birth and creates normal conditions for the development of a child. The 2007 budget project is largely full of money that shows the government’s disrespect for the needs of its citizens and the Janukovitch’s desire to return to the antinational politics of the Qutmian era. But this government initiative is a real crime against the future. Its implementation leads to total discrediting of the very idea of helping with the birth of a child, because, first of all, a large number of mothers will be deprived of this assistance; secondly, government innovation will push people to hide their incomes and thus lead to the restoration of the shade of the economy; and thirdly, even those who retain the right to help at birth will be forced to stand in line for income and work-related information. The faction “Our Ukraine” states that it will not allow the budget to be adopted if attempts are made to revise the child support programme and shorten other social assistance programmes. The government must realize that Ukrainian society has changed and will no longer humbly accept abuse, as was the case during Yanukovich’s first administration. Help with the birth of a child, like the other social achievements of the two newly formed President Yushchenko Governments, should not only be preserved but also multiplied. And the faction “Our Ukraine” will do its utmost to extend the payment of child birth aid beyond 1 January 2007. In general, we also find it unacceptable to limit pensions by two minimum pensions for working pensioners. The very slow pace of wage and living increases is the same as the very slow pace that is proposed for a minimum pension. Such approaches, which are proposed in the Social Block in the 2007 draft budget, indicate that the previous applications for a social policy audit by the two previous Governments, formed by President Yushchenk, will be implemented by this Government. We are convinced that such attempts will lead to the extreme negative reaction of our fellow countrymen and that the faction “Our Ukraine” will have to draw the attention of the Yanukovich Government to the inadmissibility of such actions. We believe that this statement will be an incentive for those who propose such initiatives to listen to the faction’s thinking and never resort to proposals that are openly antisocial, antisocial, and antisocial, especially when it comes to helping their child. We put this help in place, and the Ukrainian people realized that this payment was going to last forever. And even to the current government, more specifically its financial and social bloc, we won't allow it to be reviewed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u3	Please, Volga. Who? Kuzmenko Sergei, please, the Socialist faction. Get Turkey ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u4	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. A statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine regarding the preparation of the regions for the heating season. By the official start of the heating season, there is less than a month left. The citizens will soon feel how well prepared they are for the autumn-winter period of the country's fuel-energy complex and housing-communal economy. Since the problems of the fuel-energy complex are only getting worse every year, it's worth noting that this is because we can't get rid of the aural nature of the crisis on this issue. As long as the relevant structures don't learn to mobilize early to prepare for the autumn-winter economy, all that's going to have to do is just put out the fires in both a direct and a portable sense. The harsh climate conditions in Ukraine, and the average temperature is generally 6-8 degrees above zero Celsius, define heat as the most socially important and at the same time the most fuel-efficient sector in the economy. Despite this heat supply, unlike the main sectors of the fuel and energy complex, there is not yet a single technical investment, organizational and economic policy. It has to be acknowledged that the country’s heat supply is approaching a critical state of national disaster. Most of the subjects are preparing for the heating season and this year is in an aural order, in the last one or two months. As a result, about 20% of all heating facilities are in the fall-winter period prepared insufficiently. And this is in all the regions of Ukraine -- and in the Hmelnicka region, like in high school, and in Zaporozhye, and in Lugansk, and in the South, and in the North. The heating system in Ukraine is an economy that is characterized by a rather high degree of weariness. Existing equipment is physically and morally outdated. In addition to the loss of heat from heat, thousands of cubic meters of hot water are lost each year, technical control, and heat supply systems are at a low level. The analysis of accidents and failures is not carried out, and the media’s output to order is higher than the norm. The replacement of pipelines through corrosion is done every five or seven years. The physical aging of power plants and electricity networks is an average of 60 to 75 percent, indicating a low level of production modernization. With the generally installed power of Ukrainian thermal power plants, 24 percent are physically fully operational, 66 are over-exploited, and only 10 percent have not yet completed the established operating period. At the same time, in a number of regions the repairs and preparation of heating facilities for the heating season are carried out with a backlog of schedules and plans. It is not enough to stockpile the necessary coal reserves, liquid fuel to operate heat supplies during the fall-winter period. Debt increases both in residential and utility households for gas consumption, electricity and consumers for water-, heating and water supply services. Price and tariff policies have become an insurmountable burden for the population, which in turn leads to the loss of housing businesses. The setting of tariffs by local authorities is not always transparent. There are cases of self - interest in unwarranted services. And if the quality of the service is reduced, there is no proper cost calculation for the service provider’s initiative to turn off the heat supply. In addition, the practice of establishing excessive standards of consumption of gas, water, heat, standards of loss, and expenditure has been established. The housing-communal reform is unwarrantedly delayed. In order to avoid unforeseen consequences in the 2006-2007 heating season, the IPA faction is proposing an urgent series of preventive measures. First. The executive authorities, both central and local, will carry out a comprehensive verification of the real status of the thermal supply facilities. Take a number of steps to check the real state of the water- and heat-supply system in order to avoid emergencies. View current consumption standards and standards. To carry out a set of measures to settle past debts by consumers, including the population, businesses, institutions funded by the State Budget, as well as the housing and utilities industry before the supply of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u5	Please, Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for him. Samilik's handing over Simone. 0: 16:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u6	Alexander Turkinov, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Honorary colleagues, the antichrist majority of the Ukrainian Parliament, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council’s Rules of Work, and common sense, did not allow for the formation of an objective investigative commission to study the circumstances of an unwarranted increase in gas prices for the population of Ukraine, led by a representative of the opposition. Even in the days of Kuchma, the Supreme Council has always allowed constitutional rights of opposition to be used and set up commissions of inquiry for any reason. As long as the Regulatory Committee is studying the violation of the Constitution until the Supreme Council is bold enough to return to this issue in order to restore Parliament's work to the constitutional plane, our faction, the "Julia Timoshenko Block", is wasting its time and has set up an expert group to investigate this issue. And I want to introduce you to the first conclusions of this special expert group. These findings reveal the causes of the crisis with tariffs on community services for the population and indicate possible ways to overcome it. First. The rise in all housing and utility tariffs for the population of Ukraine is a direct and direct result of the imposition of extremely high tariffs on Ukrainian natural gas for the population. Ukrainian gas is used exclusively for the needs of the population. Yes, in 2005 the production of Ukrainian gas amounted to 20 billion. Use for population needs is 18 billion. For budgetary institutions, 1 billion. Accordingly, neither Russian gas nor other foreign gas is needed to meet the needs of Ukraine’s population. The cost of production of 1,000 cubic metres of Ukrainian gas is 114 dollars, even taking into account the overexpenditure of material and technical resources. This gas is being implemented for the population of Ukraine at a price of 444 bracelets per thousand cubic meters, that is, almost 4 times the cost. It's a robbery of our population. It can be agreed that the beginning of the price hike was imposed by the government of Yuri Yehanurov, but the government of Viktor Yanukovich continued the matter instead of cancelling the unjustified excess of gas tariffs for the population, as they promised in their election campaign. Thus, the new government actually recognizes that it is the successor and initiator of corruption and shadow schemes in the energy market in Ukraine and is ready to cover the shadow policy pursued in Ukraine by Ruskre Energo. The costs that the population pays for the gas they consume, in their majority, go towards paying excessive debts to this company, to the criminal agent who became the “Roskreenergo”. Thus, money from Ukraine’s population goes beyond the development of its own gas transport system and not to the new production of its own gas, but rather to the appetites of a shadowed corruption system that has been established in Ukraine’s gas market. Rosukrenerego began implementing shadow schemes in Ukraine's gas market during the reign of Kuchma and Janukovič. According to international experts, this company is nearing the sources of opaque and corrupt schemes. The very presence of this company in Ukraine’s gas market shows the presence of shadow schemes and the corruption of the Ukrainian government. Today’s government, led by Yanukovic, has preserved shadow patterns of gas supply in touch. One of the ideologists and founders of corruption schemes in Ukraine's gas market is the NAC ex-director Naftogazu, Yuri Boyko, who was promoted and appointed by the Minister of Fuel and Energy. In fact, today, a government roof has been created in the Cabinet of Ministers to cover the shadowy working methods of criminal intermediation companies. Next. To normalize tariff policy and remove shadow schemes from Ukraine's gas market, Yulia Timoshenko proposes to cancel an unjustified increase in gas tariffs for the population and budgetary institutions. Stop activity in the gas market of Ukraine of the opaque company Rossukrenerego, which has shadowy working methods. Return to implementing direct international agreements on gas supply between Ukraine and Turkmenistan, the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan. Disposal of double standards in gas supply policy and cancellation of benefits granted by the government of Yanukovic to the company “Capital Management System”, which is followed by Renat Ahmethov, on the right to import gas into Ukraine at a premium price of 2 billion. Cube. meters. Terminovo passed a law prepared by the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko on the prohibition of the confiscation of housing for housing and utilities for the population of Ukraine. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” states that until the government of Ukraine has taken the measures it has proposed to normalise the situation of municipal tariffs, the entire population of Ukraine will serve the shadow sector of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u7	Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction. Kushnarov's word for Pecklusenko is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Using this time to put our position on the Communist faction, I would like to draw attention to those problems that are of concern to society today that need an immediate solution in the Supreme Council. First of all, it's a problem of price tariffs that concerns society today. And I would like to inform our electorate, the radio listener, first of all what we need to do today to correct the colossal mistakes, calculations and criminal actions of previous orange governments. I want to prove it in concrete terms. On January 10th, at this year's plenary session, the Supreme Council reviewed a bill of communists that envisioned imposing a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs on housing and utilities and consumption of natural gas and electricity. On February 10th, this law was returned to the Supreme Council with proposals from the President of Ukraine. On March 15th of this year, the law was passed in a new edition. On April 6th, the President of Orange returned to the Supreme Council with a law stipulating his rejection. Thus, all actions of the Supreme Council to prevent the illegal rise in prices and tariffs by orange governments have been broken down by the veto exercised by President Yushchenko. What did the bill foresee? The bill provided for 2006 for a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, civil transport services, except taxis. In this regard, it was anticipated that natural gas and electricity recorded were paid to the population at the prices and tariffs imposed by Kabmin and local authorities, the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity in accordance with its mandate as of 1 January 2006. So we, the Communist faction, at the end of last year when we were looking at the 2006 budget for the orange team, warned us, as you remember, first of all, give an answer to the orange, at what price will Ukraine receive gas? You did everything you could to rape the people of Ukraine. In this case, this problem today requires that we make decisions. What kind of Communists do we offer to the government of Yanukovich? Consider and correct the error made by the orange government and review tariffs regarding the reduction of these tariffs. It's different. Continue negotiations with the Russian Federation on gas prices and other energy services. Third. Eliminate the salary debt of 1 billion dollars that came from previous orange governments. I also want to take another look at this and emphasize it. And consider raising wages and pensions next year. Another problem. It also touches the problems of our electorate. This is a problem of state guarantees for the recovery of our citizens' savings. The Communist faction offers compensation to Ukrainian citizens for the loss of money savings to be spent exclusively in monetary form at the expense of the State Budget, starting the following year at least as much as the increase in gross domestic product received in the year preceding that fiscal year. And by decision of the government and the National Bank of Ukraine, on account of the gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine and 50 per cent of the funds received from privatization. The Communist faction also offers the rest of the funding from privatization to target the creation of a future generation development fund. This is our goal with you today to leave to the future generation the state in which they will live. We also propose the creation of a state compensation fund to this end. We suggest that we use the following sources of fund formation to pay off our citizens' savings that have been undervalued. Costs of not less than one per cent of the amount of income approved per year by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. This could also be 70 percent of the cost of privatization, or another percentage of it could be looked at. Part of the fees charged by the supervisory authorities for appropriate fine violations and other sanctions, one percent of the sums purchased by legal and natural persons, three percent of the sales of luxury items — expensive cars, gold and products from them, except for wedding rings, antiques, and so on. Thus, there are specific problems that are much more complicated as a result of the policy of oranges. The Communist faction has made appropriate draft laws and hopes that we will consider them and make appropriate decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, the political upheavals that the country has experienced over the past three years will become a special status in the history of Ukraine. The political confrontations, the rallies, and the meetings of the Supreme Council themselves were heartbroken when, not only abroad, but also in our country, we did not know what the country was waiting for tomorrow. Therefore, in the first half of 2006, Ukraine was associated with concepts such as instability, unpredictability. This situation has begun to change in a positive direction since the election of the Presidency of the Supreme Council, the establishment of the Anti-crisis Coalition, the election of Prime Minister Viktor Yanuković and the new Cabinet of Ministers with the direct participation of President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine in this process. Here, the foundation of this positive dynamic was the signing of the Universal of National Unity. The faction of the regions is fully aware that this is a basic document, an axiom that must be strictly adhered to by every political force that has signed it. But for some politicians, stability and tranquillity in the country mean forgetting them and giving them up. Therefore, they use any way to confront, resist, impose political antagonism in Parliament and in the country. Another reason for their appearance was the statement made by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Yanuković during his visit to Brussels on 14 September this year. They were specifically told: Ukraine was not ready for the plan of action for joining the alliance. Of course, it's not just a 10-word phrase, it's a position that can and should be evaluated through the Constitution, through the State doctrine of military strategy and defence of the country, through financial indicators, which will pay for each individual taxpayer and country in general to join NATO. Most importantly, in our view, the decision to join NATO may and should not be taken by an official, however high his post, without separate political power, is the decision of most people. It was the low level of support for Ukraine's NATO membership that drew attention to in its statement in Brussels. He stressed the fact that today we must create the history of the entire people and the history that must be cemented, not divided by a nation. This is a very important issue in all aspects. Our faction stands ready to participate in discussions, public and parliamentary hearings on this issue. We are prepared to consider, with our members in the budget committee, the allocation of funds for a referendum to be held by Ukraine in NATO, or not to be followed by its discussion and adoption in the sessional room, if we believe that this is all that money is needed, not what our colleague Simonenko was talking about. But our faction will not allow anyone to violate the Constitution, so we support the statement made by Prime Minister Janukovic Victor Fedorovic of Ukraine in Brussels. It conforms to the Constitution, the entire legislative framework, and most of our fellow citizens. A project on this issue will be introduced today. Bill. We urge all the deputies who do not care about the future of the country to support it. The rest of the time, please hand over to your colleague Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u11	Please, one minute Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In recent times, leaders of individual political forces, and above all those who have brought the economy of Ukraine to a systemic crisis, have been trying to shift responsibility to the people of Ukraine to the government of Viktor Yanukovich, who is working for a little more than one month. You'll have to remind these politicians that during the 2002-2004 work of Viktor Yanukovic, Ukraine's economy has developed dynamically, which was recognised in Europe, because GDP growth is more than 12 percent -- more than convincing evidence. After the presidential election, when anti-Russian hysteria was unleashed in Ukraine, a course for joining NATO and a practical rejection of further cooperation with the EP countries was announced, the price of gas for the population instead of $50 per thousand cubic metres was 112, which had a very negative impact on macroeconomic performance and had hit large-scale populations. It should be recalled that it was only in 2005 that the government of Timoshenko created a series of crises: gasoline, meat, sugar. And one night the attempt to strengthen the bracelet caused Ukraine’s economy billions of losses. It was the government of Yehanurov that signed the agreement in January 2006 and commissioned NCRE to raise gas prices for the population by nearly 75 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, representatives of the MPs have exercised their right to speak. I would only like to make an announcement in connection with the fact that this was the first talk on the State Budget. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to meet today with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, heads of factions and committees to consider the budget and form this basic law for 2007. So I'm announcing again, and I'm paying attention to the factions and committees that this meeting will take place not at 2:15 yesterday, but at 4:00. At 4 p.m., there will be a meeting of the heads of factions and committee heads with the government's economic bloc to discuss the issues of the 2007 State Budget. We're about to go into the daytime order. The question is: draft Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill 2007-2011. Registration number 2010. Please sign up for the factions. Yes, thank you. Now, please, from the people's deputies, regardless of their belongings to the factions, please register. As long as the record goes, I give the floor to Defence Minister Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Please show me how many more deputies have been registered. Yeah, 17, well, you're on schedule for 10 minutes, so. Yes, dear colleagues, let's take a 30-minute discussion. So the factions of factions 5 and 5 are still national deputies. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law is proposed for the Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill 2007-2011. I would like to draw attention to some of the features of this bill, which, according to the Constitution, has been introduced by the President of Ukraine. First, a bill is being introduced to confirm the number of armed forces for 5 years, not for 1 year, as it has always been, but for 5 years. I would like to point out that this was the initiative and request of the Ukrainian national MPs who wanted to see the prospects, the trends in the development of the Armed Forces, and not just to confirm the number for one year, as it had done before. Number parameters proposed for approval: 30 December 2007: 200,000, including 152 thousand military personnel; 183,000 at the end of 2008, including 143 thousand military personnel; 165 thousand at the end of 2009, including 131 thousand military personnel, 147 thousand at the end of 2010, including 120,000 military personnel, and 143 thousand at the end of 2011, including 116 thousand military personnel. I'd like to report on how these figures were calculated so that all the national MPs can understand this process. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that this is actually one of the elements -- the parameters of the number that comes out of the government originally approved, then the National Security and Defence Council, then Peter Mikolaiovich Ukraine in the relevant decree of the National Development Programme of the Armed Forces for this period -- by the end of 2011. So that's the total number, the synthesis. And the procedure was to analyze the actual state of the Armed Forces, the possibilities of developing them according to the economic situation that is projected for the specified period, the assessment of the threats of a military nature to which the Armed Forces should be prepared for localization. It was worked and approved for the first time in the government program, and then in strategic terms for the use of the Armed Forces by the President of Ukraine. This is a document of particular importance, I cannot speak in detail about it, but it clearly approves the seven typical situations of possible use of the Armed Forces, which overlap the entire range of available forces and means from the highest standard use of the Armed Forces to protect our State in a classical sense to the lower intensity of applications associated with participation in anti-terrorist activities, carrying out external tasks, assisting the local authorities on the line of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, localizing other threats to the Armed Forces, but it is still fundamental to protect the defence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of our State. Under each of these situations, the forces and resources of each type of Armed Forces were calculated in order to carry out this task, based both on the active component and on the spare component, if necessary. Then there was an assessment of the probability of multiple threats at the same time, because we can't just summarize all of these numbers and get into numbers that our national economies can't pull, so we can't solve other problems of the state -- medicine, education and so on. With this in mind, the number parameters, the specific number of brigades, regiments, technical units, the number of special forces to be made up of the Armed Forces were defined. I would also like to say that the terminal parameters of the number – 143 thousand – are virtually four thousand more than the previous governments had planned by 2005. I would also like to point out that in the course of this work, both the definition and parameters of the state programme and the parameters of the number were involved by all the ministries involved, which included two governments -- both the government of Timoshenko and the government of Yehanurov. A professional and parliamentary committee was involved, then led by Georgi Korniovich Kruczkov and his deputy, Boris Pavlovich Andresyuk. The previous heads of the Ministry of Defence, including the general of the Kuzmuk army, were also present. It was both in a formal and informal environment and in a college discussion and at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. A characteristic feature of this period, five years, is that we have given up further coastal reductions in numbers. Over the course of five years, it is proposed that the total number be reduced by 78,000. I would like to point out that in 2004 alone, the number was reduced by 75,000. In fact, what is proposed for five years was then done, unfortunately, under one year’s notice. So that's not what our army is planning to do next. The following is a characteristic trait. Of these 78,000 we're planning first, and this is a dominus of 53,000, reducing parts that are security, not fighting parts and, more importantly, those are the parts that people are doing, actually, ineligible functions for the Armed Forces. Their vast numbers now hold surplus bases, arsenals, hold those remaining military towns that will be handed over to the local authorities, carry out disposal tasks that are also uncharacteristic to the armed forces and that will fall away. And then we're going to be able to say that at the end of the 11th year it's actually going to be that combat component that's backed up by the required amount of battle and rear technology that will actually enable us to do the tasks that we need. We're going to have 3 military units, 36 brigades, 31 regiments, 2 naval bases, and an appropriate security kit. During the discussion of this issue at the parliamentary committee-in-charge with Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, which took into account the warnings made by the National Deputies, we agreed that we would take a perhaps unprecedented step towards the meeting of the College of the Ministry of Defence when the draft directive of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief of General Staff on which the planned cuts would be made, we would invite national MPs, who are appropriately admitted to secret documents, there is, in particular, General Petruk's Army Commander and other officials. And once again, to make sure that we don't make mistakes, at this stage we will also allow MPs to participate in the practical issue. I want to make a point, today we're seeing a document about quantity, and it's about shortening, but not shortening, not for shortening. We need to bring the Armed Forces into line with the tasks they need to perform and raise their overall level, the level of military training, the level of equipment. And that's why the government programme has made radical changes in the military budget structure, especially if, in the current year, almost 70% of the budget is allocated to the maintenance of the armed forces, if precisely 68.9, to the training of the armed forces - 7.4%, to the development of technology, weapons, infrastructure - 12.6 and to the reform and development of the Armed Forces - 11.1%. So in 2011, we're going to have another picture. For maintenance, 57.7. In the training of the Armed Forces, 14.7. That's twice the increase. To develop technology and infrastructure, it's 24 percent. It's almost twice as big. And to develop the Armed Forces, it's 3.6 percent. We are almost done with reform efforts. In addition, the structure changes dramatically in the course of this shortcut. If now the fighting parts are 54 percent. We're going to raise it to the 11th year, it's going to be 62 percent. That's the ratio that's more consistent with the parameters of modern armies. I would like to conclude by saying that it is very important that we approve these parameters not for one year, but for five years. And then to ensure a clear path for the development of the Armed Forces, both for Parliament and for the government, or for governments that can change in time, and for the Minister, Chief Genstab, who can also change in time. So that the military will know clearly what their goal is, and this will result in adequate budgetary funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u16	Dear Minister, now that the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces has been reduced by 78,000, will you be able to provide such services to our children in the ranks of the Ukrainian army so that they do not die so often? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. That's a painful question. And there are different explanations. First. It's that I'm a minister, and I'm a senior executive, every time a military officer is killed, regardless of the category, because we have both officers, generals, and soldiers. This is an extraordinary event. And every working day, the minister begins, apart from studying the state of emergency alerts, that everything that happens in the Armed Forces is a separate help on the line of the Chief Military Administration of the Rule of Law on those extraordinary events, including the order that has taken place. Unfortunately, a flag still died today in a car accident. That's what happens. If you take the total number of people who die, if you combine them with the percentage per country, it doesn't calm me down, but the situation in the army is generally better than the average across the country at the number that it is. Unfortunately, most people are killed in circumstances that can't be affected by chiefs, especially during the summer period -- road traffic accidents, family circumstances, fighting, including in the family and so on, suicides due to personal character. There's a part that can be influenced by a minister and a senior management. I can tell you that in this regard we have taken steps that, if the word were right, would encourage military commanders, military commanders not to hide such events, such circumstances, because this is a fatal accident. But there are questions about our grandparents, and there are other things that can’t be the way we feel about them. That's why I signed the directive, and it's already made a difference, according to which, if the commander of the military itself has discovered such an event, he has a criminal case, he has such a right, I shake his hand, I thank him for it, instead of imposing on him, as it were, the strain that he had. And that's the result. During the 8 months of this year, commanders have been identified with 25 percent more criminal cases than in the previous year. I would also like to say that each case is necessarily a criminal case. There's no hiding at the level of a minister or chief of general staff, and there can't be, because that's what I can't do. And every criminal case ends with a proper court decision. It's already a question of law enforcement, but what man created means it's happening accordingly. In addition, through the draft law you have supported, we have made changes to existing legislation, and we have increased the amount of insurance received by a military official, and unfortunately his family is already in danger of death. And it also fundamentally protected people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u18	Anatoly Stepanovich, only I don't believe you wrote in the directive that you're pressing his hand. You must've had a little talk and written it differently. Because a soldier died, it is hardly necessary to shake hands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u19	Adam Ivanovich, let me make it clear. I gathered all the brigade commanders and told them personally. The directive contains dry words that relate to the nature of reporting and accounting and who is to blame, and how the commander of the military is then evaluated in the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u20	I think that's how you got it, because it turns out that the directive has words like that. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u21	Please give the floor to Deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u22	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Minister! As far as I'm concerned, once again, the sovereign Ukraine had three ministers of real defence: Morozov, Rodericki and Gritsenko. Thank you for that. Of course, the army has to be reduced because instead of being a security fact, it creates very often dangers. But all the shortcuts, according to my information, that were usually reduced by the wisest, the most inconvenient, the officers, especially those who have their own opinion and the most patriotic. Calm down, my soul, that there will be no shortcuts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u24	Thank you. I want to calm your soul. First. No political factor, especially it was sensitive, I received a parliamentary appeal after the election, it was not conclusive and it was not taken into account, who for whom and when voted, or even for whom, if there was no violation of the law. And what I want to say is that then after the election, I even got a formal appeal from the leaders, from the leaders of the force who won, who offered to carry out the personnel assignment according to the proportions that they gained in the elections. I put this document on the case, and I didn't do it. You can't do that in the army without being insulted. Changes have been made to the preparation of documents for release. And if it's easy, then every human resources body has two pillars: and the first is where we're going to fight for a person to remain in the Armed Forces, and there's a clear definition of about 10 parameters. A person has a combat experience -- whether formerly Afghanistan or now in peacekeeping units, a person has a serious level of education of tactical, operational and strategic level. A person has a degree in science, not yet a title for certain categories, but a serious knowledge of foreign languages, developed and so forth. A person who has some categories, especially fliers, has a serious rush that others don't have and so on. These people, even if they want to be released, we ask them to stay and find positions in a specific form of the Armed Forces or even transfer them to other types of the Armed Forces. And it's a matter of personal control. It's only after that that I'm looking at the personnel proposals that I'm deciding if we're going to make the most of these officers. As for the rest, the level of the officer is taken into account and then the decision is taken. That's why I think I should calm you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, reports. Please have a five - minute report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable ones are invited! We are considering an issue that is of fundamental importance to strengthening the defence security of the state and the national security of Ukraine as a whole. In 2006, the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces was determined by the relevant law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law ends on December 31st of the year. In order to secure funding for the following year, to anticipate the prospect of reform and development of the Armed Forces, including the implementation of state guarantees for the social protection of short-term military personnel, we need to consider and decide on the draft law as a law on the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2007-2011. The objective of the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is, first of all, to create a compact, mobile, modern military technology and modern military weapons capable of actually fulfilling their constitutional duty to protect our state. Today, Ukraine’s Armed Forces are using budget resources, primarily for current consumption, without having the ability to order weapons and military equipment in recent generations, to conduct military training at the proper level. Therefore, the reduction in the number of the Armed Forces should be clearly linked to all elements of the reform and development of our State’s Armed Forces. I want to point out that it was very important, and this issue was also at the centre of attention, and the National Security and Defence Committee, so that the reduction in the number of Armed Forces, including those that met global standards. I'll allow myself some statistics. France has a population of 60 million, Poland has a population of 334 thousand, Poland has a population of 40 million, Italy has 253,000, so we need to take these trends into account, especially when it comes to modern-day neighbour countries. It is necessary to clearly comply with the requirement that the proposed shortcut should be made not by means of an account, I emphasize, of the fighting parts, but by means of the rear parts. This will allow you to maintain the level of combat readiness of the troops and forces, to prevent the reduction of the fighting forces in the total number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to ensure that the tasks are carried out. Honorable national MPs are important, and this is also important for us to consider in principle at a high national level, to link closely with each other the issue of the number of the Armed Forces in all aspects of Ukraine’s national security. First of all, it is necessary for Ukraine to adopt a national security strategy by 16 years of independence. The committee plans to consider this issue in October of this year. Including, the reform of the Armed Forces should be clearly agreed upon in general with the reform of the State’s law enforcement system. For example, today the total number of the Ministry of Interior, the internal forces of the Security Service, and so forth, is 458,000. This practically doubles the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and this is an unacceptable imbalance. And these issues need to be addressed in the context of reforming the state's law enforcement system. And this is also the decision of the committee that we propose to take into account in the decision of the Supreme Council. It is absolutely necessary to improve the defence strategy: The National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the State Technical and Arms Programme, the State Industrial System, budgetary policy, social protection, and so on. On the basis of the above, the Committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of which it should be further developed, taking into account the 2007 budget figures, all aspects of Ukraine's national security prospects, and to continue to be definitively determined in the overall vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Anatoly Kirilovich, do you have a committee decision to make? Has something changed?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u28	After processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u29	I see. Please sign up for the questions. Please, three minutes. Radziewsky Alexei
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u30	Turn on the microphone. Is it on? Thank you. “Regions” faction, Alexy Radziewski. Please give the floor to the National MP Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u31	Please, Samofal Gennadi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u32	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, I have unfortunately failed to ask the Minister of Defence. I have heard in both reports a purely mechanical approach to the reduction of the Armed Forces, the number. But there is one very serious social problem. Today, more than 50,000 unoccupied soldiers. More than 5,000 of them cost more than 10 years to get an apartment, they're people fired from the army. I wonder how the Ministry of Defence, our committee, how we are the people's electorates, how will we look into the eyes of the people we're about to fire? Why? Or are we going to give them out of line, while we're going to be with the people I've told you about today? There's another problem. How did we or did we not learn today, retrain or adapt the troops we will fire to adapt to this peaceful life? This is our task with you. Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Thank you for a very serious and vital question. The cost of the bill that we are considering today in general, taking into account social protection measures, is 6.1 billion dollars. Secondly, I made it clear from the committee's report that reforming the armed forces of Ukraine, including the development of the reduction of numbers, should be complex, taking into account all the components of the national security strategy, the budgetary one, including social policy. The committee therefore proposes, in view of the decision previously agreed with the factions, to adopt a bill on the basis of which we clearly link all indicators, including social protection with the 2007 budget, to work on the medium term and to take the whole. Thank you, we support this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u34	Please, Viacheslav Koval. Koval, you're asked a question. Oh, sorry, sorry, that's different. I apologize to Julia Kovalevska. I have another list.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u35	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. I ask you to give the word to Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u36	Please, George Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u37	Thank you. A executioner, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, you said very specific figures and the ratio of the French army to the population. It's 0.55, so far this ratio in Ukraine is 0.52. How can the committee support further reductions in the military on such proportions? And others. Financing. Is it going to be cheaper for Ukraine to finance a foreign army or Nazi bases than to increase the security of its Armed Forces? This is to the chapter where you described the lack of funding for your own army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u38	Thank you. That's why the committee is proposing to the Supreme Council that you, honourable national MPs, colleagues, be very responsible to address this issue and address it only in a complex, starting with taking into account the world's standards, clearly seeking a national security strategy for Ukraine, which should foresee global risks for our state, and certainly a real resource supply, including social protection. And so we're going to make balanced responsible decisions. I'm sure there are no other options here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u39	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u41	Yes, we are going to discuss, as we have agreed, it takes 30 minutes to discuss the matter. Please start with the factions. The koval conveys the word Hennadia Udovenko. Please, Hennaday Josephovich. Get ready for Radziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The faction "Our Ukraine" supports the adoption of the bill, as recommended by the committee, in the first reading. However, I would like to express some of the reasoning that relates to this bill. Rather, it is not as much reasoning as concern. I want to remind you that from the Soviet Union we have inherited a vast army — a million 200,000. In 15 years of existence, we propose that we bring it to 142 thousand. Well, thank God that this million, more than a million, that we've cut down, didn't go into robbery, didn't go into gang-forming, but began to adapt for the more active, inactive help of the state to the modern realities of our lives. The other one. We have inherited the third nuclear power in the world. We gave him up. And perhaps thank God that we refused because we would not be able to ensure that this nuclear potential is maintained. And an illustration is the New God - Giver. Imagine if nuclear weapons, tactical weapons, were to explode, it would be ten Chernobyls or more or less. So it's positive. But we shouldn't turn into a pacifist state like Costa Rica, a country in Latin America that doesn't have an army today only has a police force. But no one is threatening her or anything. We have to think about our national security, and somewhere we have to be set a limit that we can't go beyond. Yes, Anatoly Stepanovich, the beautiful words you said were mobile, equipped and so forth, the army. But we've just heard a terrible figure of 488,000, it's internal troops, it's militia, it's OMONY, it's berkutti, it's falcons, it's who else is there. Thus, the army of 142 thousand must defend the state, or even fight its own people. Let's think about it. I agree with Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach's suggestion that we should have a clear strategy for the Armed Forces, for the development of a military-industrial complex. We should not view the Armed Forces as a secondary matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Alexei Radziewsky passes the word to Yuri Baldwin, a faction of the Party of the Regions. He'll be followed by Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u44	Honourable Chairman, distinguished deputies. Baldirev, faction of the Regions. What is suggested on first reading? We propose to reduce the number of armies to 0.28 per cent of the population to have fewer armies than all our neighbours. Less than 150,000 Poles, that's 0.4% of the population. Less Turks with half a million armies have 0.8 per cent of the population. So we're turning, as Mr. Udovenko has already pointed out, into Costa Rica. Moreover, I would like to point out such an unpleasant feature of our military life. In fact, we have an army, not to protect our homeland, but to feed our superior officers, our superiors. So there are 28 generals in Poland today. We've got about 200 today, and we're going to have 143. By the number of generals per capita, we can compete, we are ahead of Russia and we can only compete with Brazil. The tendency to transfer arsenals to other departments is highly questionable: the Ministry, there; and so forth, as the army insists. Well, the Army, the Ministry of Defense can't handle this complicated case, they're always burning and warehouses are blowing up. Therefore, in order to remove this problem from their shoulders, they propose to assign it to other agencies. This is not just wrong either, and this is a dangerous trend and can lead to very and very severe consequences. Although, at the same time, we can say, well, let's say, some positive aspects of the work of the modern Ministry of Defence. Mr. Gritsenko has indeed, let us say, strengthened the role of civilian control over the army, for which he is grateful, and we hope that this trend will develop. The officers I'm talking to say that Mr. Grizzenko didn't steal when he distributed the apartments, gave them to the officers honestly and in turn. And thank him for that, too. But I don't think that's enough. These are the things the Minister should do in his post. Of course, he still has some credit. So, I think, despite the disintegration of the educational service that has taken place in recent years. He had a more balanced policy than his predecessor in that regard. I mean, the army is a mirror of society. And since we have an absolute majority of Orthodox people in society, it is natural that Orthodox priests work with the army, not Greek Catholics. This trend has unfortunately been observed in the Ukrainian naval forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u45	They have no right to work there. The church is separate from the state. And the Armed Forces are a state structure. Valentin Zubov, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. After him, Ivan Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u46	Valentin Zubov, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. Dear fellow national MPs! At first glance, we are considering today a matter that is well understood by all. Indeed, there is no external threat to our nation today. In fact, today our country's economy is at a reform stage, and we don't need a million armies, and we can't just support it. Indeed, Ukraine today needs a highly professional mobile army, well - armed, capable of resolving the most difficult issues of national security in Ukraine. But in my opinion, in the example of this bill, we can once again see that very often in the Supreme Council Hall we do, and then we think. I mean, first we're going to adopt a bill, and then within a week we're going to have to make additions and amendments to the bills. Look. Today, the President proposes to halve the Armed Forces in five years. One hundred thousand. I ask myself and you a question: Why a hundred thousand? Not for ten, not for thirty, not fifty? What about the table? Neither in the bill nor in the explanatory note did I personally get a convincing argument. That's the first one. The other one. It is not clear that the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be considered in a complex of issues, that is, the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces depends on the State’s military doctrine. The military doctrine of the State also depends on the principles of domestic and foreign policy. What are we doing? We did not consider the principle of internal and external politics. We did not accept military doctrine in Parliament, but today we decide on the number and speed of our army's reduction. I believe that such a fragmented approach to this most complex and important issue for Ukraine will lead to only one. We're going to lose, first of all, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and we're going to lose, second of all, the military-industrial complex. Therefore, today the main task of the State must be to fund the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Raise the prestige of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Provide social guarantees, enough wages, or we will lose not only the Armed Forces, but also the independence of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, a faction of Communists, prepare for Stephen Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u48	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Respectable People's Deputies. Article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitution stipulates that the defence of the country and the protection of its sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity shall be entrusted to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Today, we are considering the draft Act on the size of the Armed Forces 2007-2011, which provides for certain reductions of the Armed Forces, both military and institution-wide activities of the Armed Forces. The process of reform of the Armed Forces is directed directly under NATO standards, in line with the declared new political leadership of Ukraine's military and political orientation, Euro-Atlantic integration, the ultimate goal of which is the country's accession to the NATO aggression bloc. In assessing the proposed draft law, account should be taken of the fact that, according to the results of sociological issues in Ukraine, more than 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens have expressed categorical opposition to Ukraine's accession to the aggressive bloc. Therefore, the final solution to this issue will depend on the outcome of the popular referendum on this issue, which has already been announced by a number of parties and public organizations. When this referendum is held, it is unknown. Therefore, it might be more appropriate today, if it were to pass the law, to adopt it not for a five-year period, as provided for in the draft law, but only for the coming year of 2007, giving the opportunity and the new Government a more detailed insight into this complex problem. And the second. Without going into detail to assess how the envisaged reduction of the Armed Forces will affect the capabilities and quality of the tasks set out in the Constitution, I will allow myself to address only one of the problems identified by the reduction, namely the reduction of facilities, parts, institutions relating to the social protection of military personnel, in particular the reduction of facilities relating to preventive, sanitary and veterinary care for veterans, war veterans, workers, persons with disabilities, members of the Armed Forces, pensioners. The Council of Veterans has received numerous appeals from veterans with strong protests and demands not to allow the reduction or disbandment of military hospitals, motivated by the fact that such an action would severely exacerbate the health care of veterans. Veterans believe that a positive solution to this issue would be in line with the decision to transfer fully military hospitals to be reduced from the Ministry of Defence to the balance of the Ministry of Health, which is mandatory, without changing the location, composition, equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Prepare Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. With regard to the draft Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine for the period 2007 to 2011, the following must be taken into account: first, as noted by the National Security and Defence Committee, Ukraine does not yet have a national security strategy. The argument on the need to shorten the Armed Forces with reference to the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of December 9, 2005 on the State Development Programme for the Armed Forces for 2006-2011 is not convincing. I would stress that the conclusions on the number and other basic parameters of the Ukrainian army can only be drawn on the basis of a detailed realistic national security strategy, which I repeat is not yet in place. Secondly, as head of the Subcommittee on Social Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families, I am concerned about the implementation of the current Ukrainian Act on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel, which are being released from service in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. I'm talking to the drafters, can you guarantee that at least next year's budget will provide the necessary financial resources for this? No, you can't. But you do propose to determine the rate of reduction of the army until 2011. How will the problems of social adaptation, employment, and housing finally be solved? According to official military records, the total number of homeless military personnel now stands at over 60,000. A man. In 2006, $24,000 will be released. The next one's going to be 21,000. More. During the past year, 6,000 were built. flats. Logically, how do the drafters plan to guarantee a solution to the housing problem? There is no answer again. We need to finally give up our practice when we are not thinking about a person. Until there are convincing answers to these and other questions, the law cannot be adopted. The Socialist faction proposes to re-read the bill with further proposals to determine the number for 2007 only, provided that the social guarantees of freed military personnel and their families are provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Alexander Chernomorov, the “Regions” faction. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Without high matter, I would like to tell you, as a stock officer, about some of the problems of these people who are concerned about them and who would say a completely different attitude towards what we are being offered today. In the beautiful city of Yalta, where I live and where we love to rest so much, 200 officers are in line for housing. 1-2 apartments per year. You can judge all of Ukraine as many of them. 60 grand, it says. Are these problems solved? It is now proposed that a reserve officer who does not have an apartment add a stock officer's son, who will not have a problem either. It is simply not appropriate to address such issues before solving the housing problem. The next question is pension insurance. Everyone should know that the Colonel and General, who resigned in the 1990s, in the 1980s, receives a pension less than the flag that has resigned in our day. Does the Ministry of Defence intend to equalize these pensions? And what will make them equal if the number of military pensioners increases, and so on? This question is not being resolved either. By the way, the Januković Government had begun to address the issue of pension insurance for those officers, and with the arrival of the orange authorities, the issue had stalled. Ask any officer, the Honourable Minister of Defence, how his wife will react to these reforms and only then can such decisions be made. I would suggest that this issue be postponed to at least the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u53	Please, Oleg Lazko. I can't see. Basil Volga, please. Basil Volga is not. Olga Bodnar, please. While the word is given to the national deputy and he is absent from the session room, he is deprived of his word. Read the Rules. Please, Olga Bodnar. A Microphone from Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u54	I'm asking you to talk, right? I ask you to pass the word to Petruk Mikolai Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u56	Mikola Petruk, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, it is clear that in determining the strength of the Armed Forces, first of all, we need to look at the social problem and provide for all those who need to be released from the Armed Forces. This question has been raised quite correctly here, and it is clear that it is not only the Ministry of Defence that should deal with these issues — both the government and the President and the Supreme Council. This requires the provision of funds, without the cost of housing for military personnel who are currently in the Armed Forces, of course, without the provision of funds. And this year, and next year's budget this year, it's clear that the funds that are being allocated are completely inadequate. And the number of homeless officers is, unfortunately, growing every year. And this problem, of course, has to be solved. Second of all, I'd like to draw your attention to. Well, and the Armed Forces, which they are now, will no longer be, and the battle kit of the parts, believe me, as the former commander of the land army, will no longer be. The deployment of divisions, armies, and so forth, will be no more. And that battle kit that is now in place, it needs to be preserved by honourable national MPs. Why Save? Because we can do 2011, if we look at it, we can stay with warehouses, bases, parts of rear technical equipment. Why? Therefore, the funds allocated for reform are those that are allocated for disposal and, as they are allocated unevenly over the course of the year, it is clear that those parts are not shrinking. If previously reduced by a battle set of parts, it is not possible to do so now, and the funds should be allocated for reforming, decomposing the set of parts that will be available in 2011. And I want the Ukrainian Defence Minister to point out that we're going to be completely in control of those military parts of the battle kit that are currently there, and we can't reduce them at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u57	Thank you. Vitali Kurilo, please. There's no Kuril? Is it? You give a word to Yavorovsky. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u58	Mr. Secretary of Defense, Honorary Colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski, House of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, there was a huge crowd of troops, ammunition, and so on in Ukraine after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Because I'm convinced that we Ukrainian politicians are aware of the complexity, the quality of these distinguished demoralized guerrilla groups, had to be glued together, put together a normal patriotic Ukrainian army that would ensure the lives of every Ukrainian and give him peace of mind that he could be protected at any moment. Unfortunately, there have been so many mistakes that instead of the army being safe, it actually poses a danger to Ukrainian society. Build this row — the Squirrels, the Brewery, and the shooting of the former minister on a Russian plane, on which the citizens of Israel were flying, pick up the Bogdanovka and so on. And there's a lot of arguments for that. Of course, the huge army Ukraine has today, of course, is insurmountable and useless. We must set a very clear goal: Ukraine should have a professional army with high-powered weapons, not with pre-diving tanks, with our cannons there and so forth, and there should be patriotic professionals who give their lives to the army, but they should know that this state will take care of them after they retire. It's a colossal problem. Because of this, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko understands and realizes that we need to shorten the army today. I in vain asked the minister a question so that they shorten the most patriotic, the smartest, because, you know, she's so uncomfortable and they don't say "oh, two," they take everything they're told. They are people with honor and patriotism. That's why we think that, in fact, the army has to be reduced, but to me, I'm absolutely convinced that today's vote is not going to work, it's already clear in the hall. So let's re-read the first reading, basically prepare for it with all the lectures, and I have no doubt that we will have enough national intelligence regardless of our political positions to make this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u59	Please, Scoobenko Volodymir. Prepare Kalashnikov Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Vladimir Skoubenko, Donetsk. I fully support the Minister of Defence's desire for the Ukrainian budget, which will be expressed in terms of lower costs for the military. However, this approach is without addressing social problems, and especially what my fellow deputies have said that there are absolutely no approaches to resolving pensions for the military, housing problems for the liberated soldiers, creating jobs for those who will be dismissed to date, which there is absolutely no reference in the proposed bill without the concept of the development of the army for the next five years or 20 years, I do not think this bill can be adopted. Today, we need to focus on the development of the concept of our Armed Forces and, above all, the establishment of a professional army. Without such an integrated approach, I think such one-off movements cannot be taken seriously. I therefore support what was proposed by my colleague Yavorivsky to withdraw this law from consideration and to re-examine it, taking into account all the proposals that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Oleg Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots. Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. First of all, I would like to stress that I voted at the meeting of our National Security and Defence Committee against this bill. And I want to come to you with the same offer. Support only in the 2007 cut, send for first reading. Why? I can't say the defense minister's speech wasn't professional. I think his speech is really professional, but this is a speech by the Defence Minister, who has already made it very clear today that Ukraine is in NATO. Of course, a similar contraction and structure of the Armed Forces and the functions of the Armed Forces, which are now proposed for the sessional room, is almost an ideal form for the Armed Forces, which is located in the NATO bloc. But for today, we have to ask ourselves a question: and if the people of Ukraine in the referendum, the thing that we talked about in the universal that many of our opponents are now referring to, they don't support or demonstrate their desire to become a country that wants to join NATO. Could such armed forces, with such a shortcut, provide the main task of defending Ukraine and maintaining its territorial integrity. I want to emphasize again, the Ministry of Defense is working very well. The White Paper of 2005 made it clear that the Ukrainian Armed Forces put the task of participating in peacekeeping operations first, secondly, this is the fight against terrorism, and thirdly, this is the immediate elimination of the consequences of extraordinary situations. Yes, of course, such reduced military forces to carry out such tasks are the ideal form of existence in the social life of the new Ukraine. But for me, as a military officer, it is also my primary task. If such armed forces can secure the defense of the state, that's the first. And secondly, as I've been speaking out of this rostrum, I've repeatedly stressed that our officers, who are now more reduced, are representatives of the patriotic part of society. The people in pursuit are the hub of statehood in Ukraine. What social protection we will give them when we go into contractual formation today, many of them lose the benefits that were before. So, dear colleagues, I am addressing you and I am confident that it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will today demonstrate its desire to provide the defence of Ukraine with its armed forces, not to create armed forces that will raise the image.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u63	Thank you. Yes, please, the closing statement. Secretary of Defense, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u64	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your concern about the issues that concern me, of course, on a daily basis. I'd like to give some answers, because there are misunderstandings, and that's the wrong political evaluation. First, Yuri Baldwin. There's no planning on handing over warehouses, arsenals and bases to any other ministry. It's just New God's Day. This is an extraordinary event, under the law, the military has no right to work there. Under the law, employees of the Ministry of Justice are entitled. Just one base. No other arsenal is passed on to anyone. Period. The other one. As far as the number of generals is concerned. I would ask that there be no speculation, no comparison with Brazil, no one else. In our Armed Forces, the total number is now 245,000. In the state of Generals 143, in fact 119. This is less than the average of all European armies. There's no surplus of generals. Those generals that you see the surplus, look at the proportion, you have the right to ask, in other force structures. And you'll see where their surplus is. In the Armed Forces, absolutely. I say less than in any country, the partners are Russia, Belarus, NATO, any other country. Next. It's not a hundred thousand, it's 78. And I said this is 5 years. Not as it was in one year 2004. Next. National Security Strategy. Of course it should be. But she's not here for 15 years. And life is coming. And that's why the army can't leave without numbers. That strategy project that's been done, which is now as a working document, this strategy project doesn't conflict with what's being done in military service. And when it is completed and finally approved, it may take another six months. But the budget needs to be planned now. And we are responsible for that. Last one, the main one. All social concerns, housing and so forth, can easily be resolved by you. According to the State Program -- once again -- according to the Budget Resolution you approved here in July, already submitted by the coalition, the government is obliged to allocate two percent of GDP to the Ministry of Defence. First. And the second of January 1st is to eliminate the imbalance in money supply compared to other strong structures. Vote for it, and while the minister guarantees that there will be no problems with liberation, with retraining, with housing, and with social character. And as a compromise, I don't know, based on the proposals that are now there, because the budget process is going on, there are two possible options theoretically. I think the President will support them, and on behalf of the government, I can say that. One choice. Now the whole vote is one year, one year. The second option is, if there is no such willingness, then on the first reading, the request, take five years, and about two weeks later, come back to that question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Everyone who reported, both the minister and the profile committee, and the national MPs who participated in the discussion, really expressed genuine concern about the situation in the Armed Forces, on the one hand, and on the other hand, about the situation of those people who are being reduced in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. And here is more relevant than ever the phrase of the famous Bismarck who spoke and reminded us: “Those countries who do not want to feed their armies will certainly feed a foreign army.” And let's also get out of this. Compliments of our discussion and of the words of the Secretary of Defense as you look at the next proposal. If we now vote as a whole as a law of this content: to confirm the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as of 30 December 2007 in the number of up to 200,000 people, including 152 thousand military personnel. And the second article of the law: the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, in shortening the Ukrainian Armed Forces, must apply the act of the Ukrainian Act on State guarantees of social protection for military personnel who are released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and members of their families. There is no objection to two such articles of the law? Please, the Minister of Defense's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u66	I want to say that we support this approach and we would like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u67	So I am voting on adoption as a whole as a law of these two articles. Please vote. Vote. [[11:37:47]] For 269 The law is passed. The numbers are only valid for 2007. In doing so, the mandatory application of the law that you and I passed in the previous call “On State guarantees for military personnel that are being reduced in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. Thank you. The factions? Please, by the factions, you could see that. Region Party 60, Timoshenko Yulia Block 99, Ukraine 63, Socialist 26, Communist 21. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes is under consideration, registration number 1186. On September 14th, a decision was made to deal with the issue with a reduced procedure. Please, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, National Deputy Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski. Get ready for Olga Bodnar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u68	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine is initiating this bill to complement the Ukrainian State Prize system. This is about the establishment of two additional prizes: the Order of Liberty and the Medal of Life. As far as the Order of Freedom is concerned, it is expected to be part of the high State rewards. It is proposed that this order be assigned to Ukraine's citizens as well as to foreign citizens for special merit in protecting and preserving Ukraine's independence, Ukraine's national sovereignty, protecting the values of democracy, human rights and freedoms, and a citizen. Thus, there is a sufficiently high reward. What's very important is that this order is not going to have degrees, so it's only going to exist in one degree. As far as Medal is concerned, "For Saved Life". So it turned out that in Ukraine today, there is not a level of government reward that could be attributed to actions performed not only by military officials or by officials of internal affairs but also by ordinary civilians. To some extent, this medal repeats the old Soviet medals “For the Rescue of the Drowning” or“For the Courage of the Fire” and is likely to be attributed to those persons who committed the act that led to the saving of life, the protection of human life, of course. If the bill is adopted, it doesn't need any extra budget expenditure, and I want to stress this position, because somehow it even bothered the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Within the limits of the funds allocated by the State Budget for State Rewards, these state rewards will be produced. If they are implemented, it is likely that fewer other rewards will be produced. So the total is going to be unchanged. In this regard, I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u69	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich, sit down, please. Short-term procedure. On September 14, we voted in favour. Once again, on September 14, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure. Sadly, though, we did not approach him at that time. Please, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues. The committee considered the bill at its meeting on September 13, 2006. As the reporter pointed out, the project proposes the establishment of new state awards – the Order of Liberty and the Medal of Life Saved. In the author’s view, this will allow for the recognition of the special merit of citizens in the development of democracy, as well as in the preservation of human life. The project is supported by a commission of state awards for geralds. Funding for rewards will take place within the budget. During the discussion at the meeting, members of the committee expressed warnings and ambiguous views on the Freedom Order, which they thought duplicated the existing Bogdan Hmielnickýk Order. In addition, part of the committee commented and expressed concern about the opacity of the award procedure in general. In view of this, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project should be re-readed and provided for in the follow-up mechanism by the Supreme Council in order to prevent the abuse of the award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u71	Yeah, that's interesting. Yes, please, dear colleagues. Short procedure, so please 2 in, 2 in. Let's write down those who are going to be "in" first. Who's going to be in favor. Yes, please show me. Odysnik, Nemira. Well, there's probably no way the Ugly can go for it if they're offering a faction against it. Well, we'll believe it. Yes, would you mind? Okay, okay. I wrote it down. If you don't mind, please sign in. Yes, interestingly, Odynik both "for" and "against" first. Oh, they must be the ones left. Okay, thanks. So, Yavorowski, Volga. Okay. Please, Mikola Odynik. I can't see. Insomnia Boris. Please, Bespallian. Get ready for Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u72	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Well, honourable colleagues, of course, the reward system in Ukraine needs to be complemented, made up, developed, because our country does not yet have such a tradition. Of course, the branches, for example, are hardly and can be State rewards all the time. But first of all, we need to expand the list of general awards, particularly for the civilian population of the citizens' prizes, and from this point of view, of all support, it deserves to be fully supported by the establishment of a proposal for the establishment of a “For Saved Life” medal, because, for example, the existing award “For Saving Water” is narrowly profiled, and the present realities and risks are much greater, and we see from all the realities of our lives that such a state mark is urgent, and we hope that this proposal will be supported by the session hall unilaterally. One thing at a time! But it is surprising that there has been a conflict around the establishment of the Order of Liberty for special merit. It is also a civil universal reward, which is widely known in the world, and I stress that it is a distinctly civil reward. And what the Colosseum is here, I'm just wondering: well, someone would like it better, maybe someone would like it better if a "order of slavery" was set up to reward slaves, not citizens. And we didn't hear any real warnings about the establishment of the Freedom Order, and the committee didn't offer them. It's not surprising, because there's no such argument. As for warnings like those for which they are rewarded, this is a completely different question, and it is not connected at all. I think so. That the recognition of freedom as a higher moral value of society is undeniable. And it seems to me that this particular motivation deserves support not only in Ukrainian society, but also in the session room where its representatives gathered. We have confidence, we have the mandate of the people. Freedom is a higher value, freedom is a reality that we see as being established in Ukraine. And the recognition of it in a civil, in a civil way, at the level of a higher state reward, I think it would in itself be of high civil value. So in our view, it seems that this bill should be adopted not only as a basis, but as a whole, more so than the idea itself is beyond doubt, there is nothing to be considered in the second reading. And the technology issues refer to the statute of this order. So we hope that he will still be supported despite the incomprehensible denial that he deserves. The Ukrainian people deserve to be free.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Although we no longer have a bearing on the statute, the statute is approved by the President. Please, Gregory Restless. He's handing it over to Yavorovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, our constituents! The situation where we're looking at this bill is kind of paradoxical to me. Because, well, imagine, man is speaking out, and he is firm against the nation, the nation, having two more rewards. The second is especially important, there, for saving lives, and so on. Well, it's crazy and foolish, on the other hand, to save and act today: let's be sure to back up, because we're fine in Ukraine, we've already decided everything, we're just missing the reward. Similarly, because of this, indeed, when we were writing down, whether we could vote in favour, or against, for God's sake, well, we could vote in favour of this bill. But I would like to emphasise, given this opportunity, and the discussion of every bill is our opportunity to discuss with you the phenomenon, the problem that is today in Ukrainian society. Even so, the problem seemed to be the rewards. But what I have to say is that we have a sovereign Ukrainian state that goes on, give me a word, but a reward for the marshmallow that was once. When a nation cannot give anything else, when it does not want to honor morally, let us say, raise it on the mark. He's just hanged on a lacquer, which means either there's a warrant or a gold star or not with a gold star. In fact, we leave the exact same apricot approach to the prize as it is today. As a result, society is simply laughing at these rewards. I don't want to touch it, it's a high title, but we know that among the highest names are people who hate the Ukrainian state, and they have this golden star. There are people who just bought this star and I know about these facts and I don't want to hide them. And we know that, very often, those closer to the courtyard closer to the body were rewarded, who were more loyal. And we have such heroes of Ukraine today in Ukraine. People from this are just, uh, laughing. Because of that, I'll say again: "Julia Timoshenko's Block" will vote in favour of these awards, and so will they. But I would like to turn to the authorities, to those who define: Whom shall I reward? Well, it's a laugh, you see, until Independence Day, you've even rewarded, even, the cleaning lady in my Kiev's Dinamo, even this. Well. Who are the rewards, and why? And why don't they raise some individual, let's say, really outstanding personalities? I'm sure I have nothing against football players. Dry, don't yell at me because I'm not afraid of you, you know that. Now, that's why I'm saying once again, there has to be some measure of normality in this, there has to be some very hard choice, so that if a person is already rewarded. Because among the Heroes of Ukraine, let's say. I understand very well what Leukko Lukyanenko is, who has spent so many years in this country. Because, I say again, we vote, but I don't see much point in that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u75	The cleaning women are also citizens of Ukraine and have the right to prizes. Basil Volga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I made the speech, but it listened to the previous speaker, and you know, it makes this impression, I want to go to all the TV setters and to those who listen to us: one lousy sheep spoils all the flock. To that extent, we cannot go from this rostrum to Ukraine’s Heroes. I'd like to make a separate observation. Along with me is the director of Turboatom, the Hero of Ukraine, the person who made for this country – Bugajet Anatoly Aleksandrovich – as much as you, the distinguished previous speaker, never dreamed. But about the question. Absolutely not against me personally, and in the faction in general, that's how the votes were about the prize of a life saved. Yeah, really, just for water-saving, that's a very narrow profile. But as for the Order of Liberty, we need to be aware that, in fact, the term “freedom” is extremely subjective. And the subjectivity of this term, the attitude towards the term "freedom", given, well, let's say, the different attitudes within Ukraine towards understanding freedom. Freedom from what? Freedom from German-Fascist invaders is one thing. But I'm very worried that as soon as this order is approved, considering who will hand over this order, I'm afraid they'll be the first to get it to Bander, the Horseman, the Melnik. And we're actually going to be very far away from social harmony, and we're going to continue to deepen the crisis that exists around the UN-OPA issue. As a result, I would suggest, on the basis of the subjectivity of this term, that I do not rush into making decisions about the introduction until, in fact, these painful issues that are divisive in society are resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u77	Please, one, too, is hard to say or against. Chubarov, are you "for" or "against"? Also half. Please. As you can see, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Clearly, after we have voted in favour of this law, as Adam Ivanovich here said, it will be approved by the President of the statute on these awards, positions, and in such. They will be written out as to what these rewards will look like. I'd like to draw your attention to, or I just want to emphasize from this rostrum that the reward process itself has to take place in such a way that the high point behind it, it was, you know, equally understandable to all, and it was really so that the person who's being rewarded would bring it up to some new results in life. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that we live in both a multinational and a multireligious society. I would very much like those people who are developing these rewards in a practical way, who, in their understanding of it, would find solutions to these kinds of rewards that would be acceptable to Ukrainian citizens who are believers in different religions or who are atheists, we also have. I mean, and you also know that in many countries and in history this has happened, there is in the modern world where some or other awards in the state have different appearances. And from the faith of the one who is being rewarded or of any other approach there, a person who is being rewarded may choose the kind of reward that is in the State. It's not the reward itself, it's the look. That was, by the way, in the Russian Empire, when awards were awarded, say, believing Christians or religious Muslims. I very much hope that when the statutes of these awards are developed, those who will prepare these descriptions, especially the President who will approve the statutes of these awards, will find the opportunity to approve the substitutes of these awards, who will bear the same names, they will be rewarded for it, but they will be acceptable to the people who are different religions. I think it's very important, because I know the people of Ukraine who get the rewards, but they don't, because they think that the religious symbol that's on this prize is one that doesn't allow them to bear these rewards. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The replica. The name Yavorowski was not called. Please, Klukkowski. It wasn't your last name, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Please, Klukkowski, microphone. Out of the way. It's a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u80	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I must say, like many of our listeners today, I have been surprised to hear that freedom refers to subjective values. This reminds me of some subjective idealism. I think that the Ukrainian people have come to an excellent understanding of this value and have the ideals of freedom, and I can answer that with one phrase: “Freedom is not to be stopped.” Whether this law is passed or not, it will not be stopped by the Volga, by the Rhine, or by the Wall of China. As for those fears, as they will be rewarded, well, I would say only such a thing: “Don’t be so disrespectful about the work of the cleaning woman. Perhaps this cleaning house has worked in the same club for 40 years and has not changed it as some have changed factions.” So let us respect everyone, all the work and everyone who works is the same. I ask you very much, Your Honor, to uphold this law and thus to demonstrate your respect for the ideals of freedom and life saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, I've come to understand that Volga is a river, it can't stop. So there won't be a replica. The only one who has a word for it is the Richman. If he wants, I can give him my word for it. Question completed. I'll put it to a vote. The first is the proposal made by the subject of the legislative initiative, in the case of the President, to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. Registration number 1186. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:22]] For 171 Not accepted. We have a decision on the profile committee. Send the identity committee to read again. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:49]] For-170. The law is rejected. Yes, dear colleagues, a break has come. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u82	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the order of the system of organs that fight organized crime is under consideration. [[Registration number 1249]] I also remind you that on September 14, it was decided to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption by Mikola Vasilovich Giga. Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to a commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the order of the system of organs that deal with organized crime is being submitted for first reading. The adoption of this law is prompted by the need to improve the system of subordination of bodies that fight organized crime with a view to strengthening this fight and protecting the interests of the State of rights and civil liberties, as well as better monitoring the activities of these bodies by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with constitutional reform and the transition of our State to parliamentary and presidential forms of government. The bill amends article 7 of the Ukrainian Police Act, specifying the role and location of special units in the fight against organized crime in Ukraine's IMF system. Because there is no mention of these units in this law today. It is also proposed to introduce in a new edition article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime, which stipulates that the heads of special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the fight against organized crime are appointed and released from office in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption. The current edition of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime provided for the approval of the committee for the appointment and release of the heads of special divisions of Ukraine's BS and the respective directors of the prosecutor's offices, who oversee the observance of the laws of the special departments. The appointment and discharge of the heads of the special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the fight against organized crime was carried out beyond the control of the committee, even though these units are actually doing their primary work to combat organized crime. The proposed changes thus establish a single order for the appointment and release of the heads of special departments to combat organized crime in the BSS, U.S.S.A., and prosecutorial authorities. The proposed changes not only specify the order of appointment and release of the designated officials but will also be aimed at strengthening the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee. The provisions of this bill are in full conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 85, paragraph 33, which stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to exercise parliamentary control within the limits defined by the Constitution and the law, and that, in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution, the respective supervisory powers are exercised by the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution makes it clear that the limits of the supervisory powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its committees may also be determined by law. This law is also part of the Ukrainian Act on Organised Crime. Therefore, it is quite unobjective to conclude that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Council, in particular its position that the reconciliation of the appointment and discharge of deputies, managers and certain other officials of the law enforcement bodies, including the deputy ministers of Ukraine’s internal affairs, the heads of ministries are not members of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its committees. The Ukrainian Act on Organised Crime was adopted on 30 June 1993, and no state body, including the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, has been considered unconstitutional in the above-mentioned law on the supervisory powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the committee in the area of combating organized crime. It must be determined that special units in the fight against organized crime have been given broad powers that no other law enforcement agency has. Therefore, in view of the danger of the possible misuse of these powers and the increase of specified divisions with business and executive authorities, there is a need to monitor the activities of these divisions by the State, including by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. And the issue of monitoring the activities of these organs remains relevant today. The bill is supported by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service and the State Tax Administration. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of the system of organs that fight crime, to be adopted as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u84	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? There are no questions, because this is a reduced procedure. No one insists on the performance? Yes. Oh, no? Yes. Sign up then – two “for”, two “against”. Let's write down who's behind the bill. All right, we're on. Then Chechetov, Bulba. Please, who's against it? There's no other way. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions. He's behind him, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes a new edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime, which provides for the appointment and release of heads of special departments to combat organized crime in the Ukrainian ICC system, including in agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. At the same time, it is proposed to make appropriate additions to the article of the seventh Ukrainian Police Act, in particular with regard to the withdrawal of the Central Directorate for Combating Organized Crime from the subordination of the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, the Chief of Criminal Police, in charge of the first Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading and taking into account the proposals that will come from the national MPs in the process of processing then in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u86	Please, Bulba's handing over to Mishchen Sergey. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u87	Sergey Mishchenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, as co-author of this bill, I ask you to support it for the following reasons. First, this bill reinforces the Supreme Council's control function. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption agrees to appoint leaders. Chief of Staff. U.S.A. Secondly, this supervisory function of the Supreme Council is already in operation. Today, through the committee, such reconciliations are taking place in the leading positions of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Prosecutor’s Office, and some internal affairs agencies have come out of the bill. The law that my colleague Giga has defined. It's the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Organised Crime. And we have the fact that, under unequal conditions of agreement, such leaders go to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Prosecutor's Office and to the police. And what we see is that the appointment of the heads of internal affairs that are fighting this socially dangerous phenomenon is uncontrollable. We can see. that this body should really be controlled by the Supreme Council. And thirdly, I don't think it's just an assignment, an agreement to assign these management positions, but. The leaders of these, but also the layoffs, we protect them, if they do their job conscientiously, honestly, and the leaders, who only have the goal of fighting organized crime, can release such workers. But we're also giving our consent to their release. It's a long time before this law is passed, so I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u88	Thank you. Tomenko, you're in for it, too. Two pros have already come forward. Will you say so wisely that it will be both “for” and “against”? Well, please turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any doubt about the importance of this bill. The only thing I would like to say is that not only is the Ministry of Internal Affairs accustomed to what we are already working under the new Constitution, and it means that parliamentary control must reach all the institutions of state authority. And our discussion at the Conciliation Council demonstrated that we should direct both the committees and the heads of ministries to make key decisions on the committees and to prepare key human resources issues, especially those related to the problems of combating corruption and organized crime. The committees are meeting professionals, and we need to change the line from major public discussions in the session hall to a professional, serious committee discussion. I think it's right for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its leadership to know that their control functions are being carried out by a professional committee. The only thing I'm worried about right now is that this bill just came out because it looks like maybe there's a moment of subjectivity. They used to think that the Ministry would act in a way that was out of control, and now they decided to control it. So I think that this moment should be taken off, and I say that Parliament and all the factions in order for any law enforcement institution, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including, to be under parliamentary control, regardless of who heads this ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u90	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. It showed that we are all alone in wanting to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. I would like to vote on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act “On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Organization of Organs That Fight Organized Crime”. Registration number 1249. Please vote. [[12:43:09]] For 359 Copy that. Maybe just like the Law. No objections? Even Easy supports. Is there a denial? Yes, there is, unfortunately, there is. Yes, that is why the Law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, if you don't mind, there's only one Act in which we have a reduced procedure, which means that we should now consider the next Law, the Law number 1176, and then follow the full procedure. Is there any objection? None. At that time, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on entrepreneurship is being considered. Registration number 1176. On September 14, we decided to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. The rapporteur is National Deputy Krill Igor Ivanovich. Is it? Please, please, in five minutes. Get ready for Leapini Kseniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues, a bill of correction is proposed for your consideration in some of the legislative acts relating to the conduct of the gaming business. It amends the two laws of Ukraine: “On patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity” and “On tax service in Ukraine”. I think I'm going to agree with the majority that the gaming business is one of the most profitable businesses in our country. Regrettably, the provisions of the bills, those that are in force today, allow them to conduct business directly in the sky and not in separate premises. This leads to children sometimes being involved in this business. And they use the money their parents give them to eat at school. And these provisions of the bill, they put a negative situation in the social situation. So one of the provisions of the proposed bill restricts the placement of slot machines anywhere but specifically for those selected separate premises. Since this type of business is one of the most profitable, it would be fair to consider that the profits from running this business would be borne by both casino owners, casinos, and gaming machines, as well as by the state. And through the state, of course, so do our citizens. Work and control in this type of business shows that most business subjects working in the game business work in good faith also in accordance with current legislation. Sadly, however, there are many businesses that work poorly and use shadowy schemes. This greatly reduces the budget’s income and creates unwarranted competition, which usually loses business subjects who work in good conscience. Regrettably, existing legislation does not provide effective forms of control, so several provisions of the bill are aimed at clearly interpreting the various situations. This applies, first of all, to the clear definition of the slot machine, the place of payment for the trading patent and the sanctions for the deliberate conduct of the business without the acquisition of a trading patent. The second paragraph of the bill amends the Law on State Taxation. During the committee’s discussions and factions to this point, it was the most noticeable, since it allows the court to temporarily remove slot machines used by unregistered subjects of entrepreneurial activity and without obtaining a license and patent. I take into account the comments made by colleagues to this point, and I think it would be appropriate to take this item out of the discussion in the second reading. This is a discussion that was held on the Committee of Industrial Policy. In the course of the discussion, several amendments were also proposed before the draft legislation, which does not apply to the gaming business itself. So the decision was made to discuss these changes once again in the first reading, I agree. And, Adam Ivanovich, I withdraw my ruling from the vote, I agree with the decision proposed by the Committee of Industrial Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, the head of the committee of Leapina Kseniya Mikhailn. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill at a committee meeting. All the members of the committee expressed their thanks to the author for the fact that he drew attention to the problem that today is in the field of gaming, to the unregulatedness of a number of laws that give rise to a genuine distortion of competition when the shadow parts that play such games actually win competition with legal entities that organize a complex game process. At the same time, we found out two things. Condition one. In fact, the root of the problem is not even in the Patent Act, to which the author proposed a number of serious changes, but primarily in the License Act. Today there is a double license with different interpretations of the same activity. And if, at the level of the central executive authorities, the Minfin and the state-of-the-art licensing conditions that deal with certain issues that the author has asked. In particular, licensing conditions stipulate that such a business can be carried out exclusively in separate premises. And that's already in licensing. However, this is not the case for a second license that has to solve the issue at the local level. Local authorities should also lay down their licensing conditions. In the vast majority, they have not put such conditions into place, and on the interface and contradiction of these two licenses, the possibility of abuse and not taking a patent is born. Because the terms of the licenses are that there is a patent, you can check at the moment the license is issued and then you can control them. If he didn't take the patent, he lost his license. And the license is very expensive, and it's a serious risk. So we suggested that we go back to re-reading in order to work on all of these problems in the complex. So that the committee, together with the author and with the people's deputies who show interest and initiative, and we know that there's another bill on issues, just double license, to take it all into account in one bill. Perhaps we will even come up with a bill, which will eventually be called the "State regulation of the field of gaming business". And that's probably what we need, as we have state regulation of the circulation of alcohol and tobacco products, we probably need and it's time to get a law that is complete, clear, consistent on the state regulation of the gaming business, because we already have this business. So we do propose to re-read the first reading in order to allow all of you to join in the drafting of this socially significant bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, for the support of this bill, please sign up for the speech. Yes, there is. Humenjuk, the Dry One will speak “for. ” Now write down who's against it. Chechatov, Landik. Please, Humenjuk, our Ukraine faction. But you press a couple of buttons and you'll see everything. Well, point to the board, please, who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the faction of “Our Ukraine” supports the proposal of the committee to work on the proposed bill in view of the fact that, as I have been informed by Mrs Leipzig, there are some disagreements in it, such as allowing the tax law to confiscate property without a court decision. Well, given these things and some others, and the faction is also asking the author of the bill to redraft it and, accordingly, after that, will be unanimously supported by the law in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u96	Thank you for the short time, but you have spoken against, and you have been recorded “in favour”. I'm sorry, I get it. You're for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u97	No, we support the author of the law, including that the proposed bill is very useful and necessary for our society. But we support the committee's decision that something needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u98	Okay. Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions My fellow Members, I think that we should now be unanimous in discussing this bill and thank both Igor Ivanovich, the Ukrainian national deputy from “Our Ukraine” and the head of the subcommittee for having acquired a valid basis and for supporting it. Why? I think we've just started this very, very, very, very, very difficult work in order of this so-called business. It's hard to call it business so far. They're ordinary one-armed bandits, and they're just a bunch of muggings. First. Secondly, we know very well that the double interpretation of licensing, as Kseniya Leapina said, leads to and also creates a feeder for corrupts. Because you can do that, and you can give everybody these licenses. And then even the law enforcement authorities have no right to interfere with this one-armed bandit. And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not forget that now we're in a state of drug addiction to the gaming business, thousands of our teenagers and adults are on these slot machines. And they need to be treated by physicians to get rid of this drug addiction. It's grief. This will lead to criminality. Because petty thefts are happening right now because he needed to find the money for this machine. Therefore, we must be supportive of this bill and ask the drafter of the bill and the committee on industrial and regulatory policy and the subcommittee leading Kseniya Lapin to further develop clear, clear, clear operating rules for this business. But not just in separate places, but in separate parts of the city, all this evil must be concentrated. It's not scattered all over the big dots. That's why I think we're the bill, especially the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions. Prepare Landik Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The project proposes to amend Ukraine’s laws on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity and on the Ukrainian State Tax Service. In particular, the author proposes to amend part 5 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Patenting Act to establish that a trading patent for the provision of services in the field of gambling will be purchased by the State Tax Service authorities at the place where such services are provided and paid to the budget of the territorial community for the place where these operations are carried out. On this point, according to the content of the law, since article 2 of that law is part 3 of the law, the commercial patent is issued to business entities by the State tax authorities at the place where they are located or at the place where their structural units are located. According to article 6, part 1, the costs derived from the sale of commercial patents are included in local self - government budgets at the place of payment of a commercial patent. Thus, the proposed changes to part 5 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting Certain Business Activities are unnecessary. Thus, we believe that the proposed amendments to article 11, paragraph 9, of the Ukrainian Law on the State Tax Service, which give the tax authorities the right temporarily to order the court to remove property and other values in their owners, can only be upheld if they are supplemented by provisions that clearly regulate the order of such removal, the issue of the preservation of the property removed, its return if the court does not decide on its confiscation and the liability of the tax service and their officials who have taken an illegal decision on the removal. In this regard, I propose that I support the conclusion of the identity committee and send it back to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u102	Vladimir Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we have now received a bill that regulates the operation of slot machines and the establishment of gaming activities. But it seems to me that under these changes to the law, it's like they're opening a little fort or giving you public opinion and you and me from the problem of playing business in the state. I believe that many citizens support that this business should be limited and limited to certain cities, a specific place and a certain time. You'll see, if we had lawyers' offices and pharmacies open on every corner or maybe one corner, the slot machines open on each corner and on the corner of four. So that people are addicted to the game, as they say, they sit on a needle, but it's a disease, a grief. So we don't have to distribute it to our people, we have to limit it, and we kind of change the law, help, give it a million-dollar license. They'll get that million in half of our citizens' pockets and they'll laugh with us. There's a lot of money coming from the people, and they can pay a million dollars for the license, so think about it, a million people are willing to pay for the license. This has to be limited. Towns that are resorts where people rest should be removed from the Republic of Crimea at all. And make your Las Vegas, your own, but not in Kiev, in certain places. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Casualty, please. Say one word. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u105	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll take a minute and I'll use it on motive. Adam Ivanovich, we still need to look at their deadlines when we adopt laws that have an impact on the spending or the income part of the budget. We're even looking at it. It's a church. This week, the government is presenting a draft budget in its first reading. We adopt such laws. This is especially true of this law and of the law under which I failed to speak, which was reported by the Minister of Defense. Well, it's a $40,000 cut in 2007. The military's contribution, the provision of apartments, the weekends of all aids, is hundreds of millions of dollars that have not been budgeted for today. That's why the budget committee's in this, and it's through the bill. And I would very much like us to continue to be guided by the conclusions of the budget committee and its recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u106	I completely agree with you. And let's think about it this way: what we're going to do with income, we're not going to limit it, we're going to have the income budget. So what we're going to do is we're going to watch, we're going to enter from what date. Yeah, it's okay. In principle, the author withdrew his proposal, so perhaps with your permission, I will put to the vote the proposal of a professional committee to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on entrepreneurship. [[Registration number 1176]] For re-reading, for processing. This is a rereading of the first reading. [[13:01:48]] For 414 Decision taken. Please, in due course, and preferably sooner, I would like the committee to prepare this bill for consideration. Now the procedure is complete. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Veterans of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons and Their Social Protection, registration number 1075. [[about tax police veterans]] Please register with the factions who will be involved in the discussion. Please, Valery Vasilovich, wait for the recording to take place. Yes, of course. Now, please write down, regardless of who belongs to the factions who would like to participate in the discussion. Yeah, well, 25 minutes to talk. Yes, please report to Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich. Get ready for Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Today's draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Veterans of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons and Their Social Protection is submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration," registration number 1075 aims to eliminate the social contradictions that are currently in the tax force, as well as to eliminate the contradictions in this matter between the taxpayers and employees of other Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. First of all, you should point out that for today, the question is the definition of veterans by just about 700 people. These are the heads of the tax police, who, at the time they were transferred from the internal affairs authorities to the Ukrainian State Tax Administration, served 20 years or more for operational investigation work in the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs. Some officers, at the time of their transfer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the State Tax Administration, are two or three days away from becoming a veteran of internal affairs. At the same time, I point out to you that their transfer to the State Tax Administration was not a matter of personal interest, and no one asked them to do so, since they would transfer the entire service from one department to another. By the way, about other services that came out of the U.S.M.S. system, it's a long time ago. I mean, it's the fire department, the execution department. So once again, I emphasize to you that it is a matter of recognition by veterans of only about 700 people. The adoption of the draft law provides for an additional budget cost of 1 million 900,000 dollars a year. A bill was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Professional Committee. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the bill, to vote and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u108	Yes, if you have any questions, please sign in. Yes, please, five minutes. Mikola Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u109	Dear Reporter, please make it more clear in a comparative way why it is necessary to make appropriate additions when it comes to employees of tax authorities. Because it is known that, among other things, this service has been created recently, and the level of safeguards, including law enforcement agencies, and they apply to them, we have a general level in the country. So I would like you to be more fully aware of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u110	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. By April 2001, the Ukrainian President had already signed the Law on Amendments to the Law. The State Tax Administration of Ukraine has submitted its additions to this bill aimed at extending the provisions of this legislative act to the special composition of the State Tax Administration, that is, the Tax Police. However, in considering the bill, and in the law itself, the proposals of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine did not reflect their reflection, resulting in a lack of legal acts in the current legislation that determine the status of tax police veterans and their right to social protection. And that's why they're off today. I can tell you that the real law of Ukraine “On the status of military veterans, veterans of the internal affairs of Ukraine and their social protection” is distributed to the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Security Service of Ukraine, the Border Guards of Ukraine, the Civil Defence Forces, the Department of State Protection, and the fire guards. At the same time, members of the Tax Police, who were previously employed in the IMF system and engaged in the fight against crime and the protection of the rule of law, do not fall within the scope of the aforementioned law. Thus, it is suggested that such changes be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u111	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Party of “Regions”, Zaporozhye. Dear Valeriy Vasilovich, as a representative of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, there is no doubt that all aspects of social protection, especially those of the vulnerable, are to be improved, such as the police, especially the tax police. All I care about is that it's not, you know, another promise we made or another wish that ends in nothing. In order for your standard to work properly, your proposal needs to be amended and supplemented by a number of legislative acts. Please tell me, does your bill provide for changes and additions to basic bills that determine the individual status of military veterans, including law enforcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. The increase in expenditure is proposed to be compensated by the funds provided for in the 2007 government budget of Ukraine, in the articles on pensioning and free of charge, or by the financial and social security of military personnel and officers and the military and military composition of internal affairs bodies, including the tax police. I can tell you that the implementation of this bill does not require adoption or review of other laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u114	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u115	Valeriy Vasilovich, but I ask you to clarify: is this Law only about those workers who once worked in internal affairs and were transferred to the tax police, or all the newly employed workers? Because if translated, it is a one - time act that does not require a change in fundamental legislation. If this continues, I think I need a change. And also, y, comment: of course, for 2007 social assistance is also needed for the tax police. But it's not the extra payments to the children who want to take down the government of Azarov, the government of Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u116	No, I'm already, thank you, Eugene Alexiovich, I've already explained that it's not at the expense of this. The point is, this is about the veterans of the tax police, who, at the time they were handed over, in 96, was the President's decree from the IMF structure to the State Tax Administration, served 20 years or more in the IMF system. Those who served 25 or more, and then were transferred to the DP, are used and subject to this law as veterans of internal affairs. The new ones you're talking about are going to be recruited, they're going to fall under this law, but when they serve 25 years or more, then they're going to be considered veterans of the tax police.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u117	Valeriy Vasilovich, do you think the Minister of Finance will support this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u118	I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u119	Okay, have a seat, please. Yes, please, Bulba Stepanovich is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on 6 September this year, the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Law on the Status of War veterans, internal affairs veterans and certain other persons and their social protection was considered. It's about the veterans of the tax department. The purpose of the draft law is to define the status of veterans of the tax police and their rights to social protection by spreading the provisions of the Ukrainian Law, which I called “The status of veterans of the military service, veterans of the internal affairs authorities and some others and their social protection”. The logic of this is because the tax police are subject to the law, although I would personally consider it better for taxpayers to have their own separate law, because indeed their service is “and dangerous and difficult” but to compare it, say, with the military, I don't think it is possible. Yet, that is another subject. According to the author of the bill, the adoption of the law will lead to the need to find additional funds from the budget in the amount of 3 million 113.7 thousand dollars. The committee supported the proposal of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office to submit it to the Supreme Council for adoption as a basis and as a whole, subject to clarification of the proposals for the validity of the law to which amendments are made. That's right. Write down “The Act takes effect from the date of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007” and not 2006 as stated in the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u121	Yes, thank you. Are there any questions? None. Then please, let's see who we have here. Stepanovich has already come out of a socialist faction. You don't give a word to anyone? No, it's not. Yes, please, Mikhailo Zjirov, “Our Ukraine”. Please. Yes, there's Food in the hall. I see. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. It's a very important social law. And it touches a small number of people in pursuit. According to the reporter, the author of the law said that in October 1996 the President's decree created the Ukrainian State Tax Administration. And according to this decree, the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which fought against criminal tax evasion, were transferred to the Ukrainian tax police. By the way, we moved there with our chairs, our pens, our papers, and so on. Then who has benefited from eight years of service, nine of whom are fifteen, and one word in ten years of existence of the State Tax Administration of the Veterans of this service, the police, who could be 25 years of service, are not naturally available and cannot be. But here came people in militia pursuits who served fifteen, seventeen, eighteen years of service and served in the tax police. Those who have retired from the tax force are thousands of people, 255 are still serving in the tax police and are already 25 years of service. So the law proposes, let's not put one person in a race and put them in a privileged position as employees of the Ministry of Justice, the Enforcement Service, the Fire Department, etc. The price of this question is not too great -- 3 million dollars with something -- and the budget offered by the government at the profit of 180 billion dollars, we could, Adam Ivanovich, support this law, and there's no reference to it in the General Science and Technology Administration, except for the only one. They ask to reconcile it with the draft State Budget Act and may put it into effect not since January 1, 2007, but a year later. I don't think it's the cost that we can term the effect of such a small law for a whole year and a half. Please support me. And this law awaits those who have earned the benefits that are provided for other categories of military servicemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Please, Lukyanczuk, faction of the “Timoshenko Block”. To prepare, Kamchatny passes to Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u124	Thank you. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the bill that we are considering at number 1075 proposes that the status of military veterans and the status of internal affairs veterans be extended to the tax police. Before this bill, there are a number of important observations. First, in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the laws of Ukraine, which affect the formation of an income or expenditure portion of the budget, should be officially published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. Otherwise, these rules of the relevant laws, which affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budget, are applied not earlier than the beginning of the budget period, followed by the planned one. Now we have September 19th. And this law will enter into force at best in October of the month. Hence, there is a breach of budgetary legislation. Secondly, the same article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code provides that laws that affect the formation of an income or expenditure portion of the budget should receive an expert opinion from the Ministry of Finance, as well as pass through the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I did not find, unfortunately, the findings of the Minfin or the conclusions of the budget committee in the materials we gave us. Thirdly, the drafter envisions an increase in the cost of the state budget by about 3 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. In my opinion, there are categories of citizens in Ukraine who need much more social support than those in the tax department. For example. This is the support of young teachers who go to the village to work. Nor should we forget about the millions of pensioners who receive only 300, 400 dollars a month. And our taxpayers, first of all, get relatively high wages, and second of all, they have the status of government officials. This status provides for many benefits, including retirement benefits. Fourth. Ukraine’s law on the status of veterans of military service, veterans of internal affairs, applies to representatives of force structures that are associated with extreme conditions and circumstances. Armed forces have no fixed workday and are obliged to remain on standby. Billions and firemen often risk their lives. I doubt that the work of the tax police is now related to the same limitations and personal security as the work of other rapists. Perhaps that is why the bill that we are considering today has not been adopted. Five years ago, the Ministry of Internal Affairs extended the status of military veterans to members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. If there is social justice in relation to the veterans of the tax police, why hasn't the Cabinet of Ministers submitted a bill to Parliament so far? Why is the bill submitted to the people’s deputies rather than to the government? I think that tax police veterans want to get the same benefits as internal affairs veterans and the tax police, if that's how to ask the question, then the tax police have to be transferred to the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs. Dear colleagues! It's not that simple with this bill. And I think it's worth not supporting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u125	Please, Mikola Tomenko, faction of the "Timoshenko Block". Prepare Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I think that's an example of how we should think of some kind of bill as being considered by at least two committees. Because it is clear that the National Defence Security Committee, as a professional branch and soul, is in pain for all law enforcement officials to live better. But I think that if a committee of questions, at least work and social policy, were involved here, the colleagues in this committee suggested that the general logic of going along the way of increasing the benefits to some categories is wrong. I'd just like to tell our voters and citizens that we have in the law enforcement system today in the Ministry of Internal Affairs 324,000, internal troops about 40, 41,000, State Security Department there two, border guards 50, and so on. So we have about half a million people involved in this coordinate system. If we create a separate aid system for them, then we have a separate system already built there for the judiciary. We're talking about the benefits of deputies, the way out of a different situation. These people need to be paid a decent salary and a pension, rather than giving them benefits to travel free of charge. If we invited the mayor here right now, they would, I think, sit here and not know what to do. Because now that we have a history of tariffs, and we're saying, we're giving another category -- the pay-as-you-go utility, we've already got a couple dozen categories of benefits in transport. So it's not because I don't think the tax police deserve it. They have a very specific job. I think that small and medium-sized business is particularly aware of how tax police work actively. But I think we're strategically making a mistake by going the old way, adding a traditional Soviet aid set for another category of people. On the contrary. We need to stop. To review this system of benefits, especially in the area that the government and local authorities do not know what to do with these benefits. To be honest, there may be many poor people there. I've been talking to some taxpayers, and I don't know if they should be on the subway for free. Many of them have money to get on their cars. But once again, I think we can't create a precedent for spreading a whole range of unjustified benefits to this category, even though it's not numerous. What's more, I know a lot of politicians who said we wouldn't have a tax force, and it would work in the interior ministry system. Perhaps this is a matter that needs to be resolved. So I'm against that and that position of most of the factions of our faction. Once again, let's do wages and pensions and not share the benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u127	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions. Vitaly Kurilo next, Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Indeed, when we consider this bill, each of us must be determined. On the one hand, there are objective arguments in favour of supporting the bill, since the natural desire of the nationalists to improve the lives of a particular category of the population. On the other hand, my colleagues rightly stated that there is some pressure on the budget, which should be properly analysed, considered at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, calculated and thus, by reviewing, the session room should have an objective view in the context of the public expenditure for the year for which it is planned. Moreover, the bill proposes to introduce these changes for the current budget year. What can I say, dear colleagues? The previous speaker pointed out that the number of benefits should be reduced. In fact, there are two concepts. And the first concept is the concept of a liberal society where, in fact, a limited number of benefits, increased wages, and according to incomes from wages, people provide their needs. But at the same time, there are many countries in the world where there is high social protection provided by the State, government officials, because they perform specific services that ensure the functioning of the State and the provision of public services to citizens. Therefore, it is not possible, on the basis of our desire to limit a certain category of population, that we today have a fairly wide range of benefits for some government officials or others. My proposal for colleagues is to support this bill in the first reading, of course, to direct it to work on the Committee of Budgets, of course, to process and propose it not for the current budget year, but for the next year, or for the next year, to plan the public spending, taking into account all the laws that we propose. But at the same time, I would very much like to invite you so that we don't exclude from certain categories of employees who do similar jobs, some particular category. For example, if we're talking about the militia as such, we can't give the militia the benefits, and we can't give the taxes to the police. I'm not a fan of the existence of a tax police at all, but along with, if it already exists, there are employees, the rules should be the same for everyone. Because as an idea, she needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u129	Yes, please, Vitaly Kurilo, “Clock Timoshenko”. Javrovsky has a word for it. Please. Eugene Gorenik is getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u130	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Honorable Chosen Ones, Honourable Voters! Perhaps there is no person in this room who did not want any of the categories of Ukrainian society to live better tomorrow than she does today. Only a political suicide can do this. But the situation looks different. I used to go on the Internet and find this number: How much of the benefits a wealthy Germany has, which is already counted for both sins and crimes of its own, means grandfathers today. It turns out that about 3.4 percent of people have benefits in society. They are mostly disabled, as well as many young mothers. Smart Germans know what they're doing. Every time we give someone benefits, it turns out that we give benefits to special categories in our society. Not the teachers, doctors, doctors, or the miserable peasant who is sitting in these weeds in the unsitted Ukrainian fields today, but those who are. Well, I just want to remember this episode. Back then, ancient dairy workers received modest wages. And when they asked, "Well, what's with the pay? There were 35 or 40 rubles back then. They say they'll steal the rest. Because, again, I say, I am a proponent that the creation of this monster by the name of "tax police" is our fault. Such units should exist in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. Let's also think that today, we've been talking so painfully about the problems of our Ukrainian army, and in fact, we're constantly funding the police structures of our state, and we're inadvertently turning into a police state. Because I say again, I have no right to vote morally now. I am convinced that this bill still needs to be considered and worked on. And with half a minute to go, I'd like to answer one of the political salads that came out of that rostrum, not calling my last name. As for the sheep, it is a beautiful animal, God’s animal, Jesus was born among the sheep, not among “the goats that are stirring up our lives. ” I won't discuss it with him, because I have to go down to his level. If you go down to his level, it's very hard to get up again, and you can't get up at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u131	Please, Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine." Chubarov Rephat after him. Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u132	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Chairman! Honorable National MPs and Voters! I'm going to say the most controversial point from this rostrum in the discussion of this question that has been going on all this time. Actually, I don't need a tax police. And it's not my thesis, it's the thesis of the President of Ukraine, who's expressing it in his electoral program. When does the tax police not need it? When the law is in force, when there is an honest collection of taxes, and when the misunderstandings that arise in a particular area of taxation are normally carried out by ordinary police, as is the case in the vast majority of civilized European countries. Here's another example of Euro-integration that we're afraid of. And now I want to publish a few numbers that should be re-emphasized from this rostrum. It is no secret that more than 500,000 pensioners, who are actually pensioners from the IMF, are absorbing one third of the pension funds. And for all the other millions of pensioners, two thirds go. And that's why we understand that this is a big difference in pensions. At the same time, I would also like to emphasize what is certainly a moment of justice. Indeed, the fact that the Tax Police, which was created in its own time by the head of the Tax Administration for the first time by Mikola Janović Azarov, is, works and continues to work. And we know that when it was formed, really, some people would just walk out of the government of the IMF to fight economic crime and move into this new structure. We know that in this way there was a difference between pensions or benefits, and for me, benefits should only be given to disabled or competent people in society, and we should move to that, but there was a disharmony, an imbalance in the pension insurance of those who are pensioners from the IMF and the Tax Police. And in the name of justice, and Parliament should make decisions that are just, we should balance that part with all the other pensioners in law enforcement. But there is one “but. ” Dear friends, today we were discussing the reduction of the Ukrainian army, determined by year. If that draft budget is in place for 2007, we will cut short the Ukrainian army very quickly, because in the last year the birth of Ukrainian children has increased by six percent. And as long as I'm not told in my first rereading how much money we're going to pay everyone else, maybe at the expense of the unborn children, where today's government wants to take the money, I'm not sure we should accept it in the first reading. So for the rereading of the first reading. Chubarov's reaction, please, from the spot, microphone. Prepare Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u133	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Well, really, here comes the debate. I think I'm going to be one of those who vote in favour of adopting this law to bring about such a responsibility to the system and to those people who in their own time took advantage of the valid legislation that was at the time of the creation of the tax police. Because today, one of the issues that I have been discussing has not been given time to speak to my colleague, Liszka Oleg, and you, Adam Ivanovich, have not given him the opportunity to do so, I am giving him the last time I have to give him much time to speak out on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u134	Thank you. You have the right to transfer. But I followed the rules clearly. He was absent at the time in the hall. Please, Oleg Lazko has 5 minutes, for two minutes he was handed over to Rephat Chubarov and his 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, look at me, here I am! I shouted to you from there that I was in the hall, and you can't see me. Now specifically, now specifically. Don't pick on your throat. Now, specifically, according to the bill. My dear friends, here are some of the deputies who I think in October last year, before the parliamentary elections, passed the Children of War Act, which was also intended to compensate for the value of utilities and to supplement pensions. I go to Montenegro every week in my district and people ask me, "Well, where are the benefits we're supposed to get?" So these hundreds of thousands of children of war go without any help, even though it's on paper. Similarly, they do not have the capacity to travel on a bus free of charge. Because the private owner throws it off the bus because the budget does not provide for the cost of travelling free of charge to those categories of citizens who are legally entitled to it. It's the same thing they don't, there's a 57th article on teachers. There are no benefits on the paper, there are no benefits in real life, because there is no money in the budget. The same is true of health professionals and other social categories in need of social assistance. So says colleague Tomenko, colleague Miroshnichenko and others. It is not the way to cultivate the benefits that are on paper, but that they are not carried out in life, to give people normal wages, to allow them to receive normal pensions, not just a certain category of government officials, and no one will need any benefits. Imagine, I want to see this tax collector. A tax police veteran who worked for many years in the tax department, and someone here has already stressed that we know how they worked with the medium-sized business, with both small and large businesses. Let us mention the history of the bank of the “Slovenian” destroyed, other large enterprises. So, I want to see this former tax police officer drive public transport, not on Mercedes, or he needs discounts on municipal services, when they have homes or in Concha Zaspí, or in Desert Lakes, or in other "royal villages" near the district centers, and so on. You can't do that. We have millions of people who really deserve to be supported by the state, who don't use these benefits today because there's no money in the budget, and we're three million there with something, says my colleague, it's not so much money to give them. The question isn't whether it's big or not. There must be justice in society in Ukraine. And let's start by implementing those laws that give benefits to the least unprotected population, and when the budget is cost-effective, then maybe we'll talk about introducing benefits to the veterans of the tax police. Dear colleagues, please don't support this bill, or else think about it when we're with you in the last week of this month and we're going to go to the districts that we're going to answer to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Just a clarification: we don't have the police, we have the police. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. The only thing I'd like to point out here is what we talked about in the previous law, that here I'm absolutely in solidarity with the replication that our colleague Kaletnik, who said that any law that has an spending portion of the State Budget should have the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, that's the first, and the second, that he should put it into effect not earlier than the next year, that is, the financial year. So here's the problem. But there is a proposal for a profile committee. Although I also support those who spoke about why it was the National Security and Defence Committee that addressed the issue and did not consider the Committee on Budgets, first of all, and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. But it's like they've been assigned to it, so it's out. There is no special responsibility of the committee, for he was not given the commission at his initiative. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee, and in this case it was made by the Defence and National Security Committee, on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Veterans of the Internal Affairs Authorities, some others and their Social Protection, on the Veterans of the Tax Police. Registration number 1075. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:38]] For-76 Not supported. The factions. Region Party, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 47, Socialist – 29, Communist – 0. What's the matter? The law is rejected. With this number of votes, there is no chance of rereading the first reading. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We have one, two bills left. If it's your will not to hold an evening meeting, let's vote now to continue the meetings in the morning to consider all issues of the agenda, and at 16 o'clock we would have the opportunity to hold that meeting that we talked about, the heads of committees and factions with representatives of the economic bloc on budget issues. Who, in order to continue the meeting this morning before the implementation of the agenda, please vote. [[13:39:59]] For 255 Dear colleagues, don't worry, we'll bet, I think we're in the middle of something, but I was just insuring myself, I was just insuring myself. The next proposal, the next proposal, is 255. The next proposal, the national MPs, the subject of the legislative initiative, comes with a proposal to withdraw the bill from consideration, to reject the number 1012 bill. It's about amending some of Ukraine's legislation. But in view of the fact that the new Rule 99 article gives us, since if the bill is already included in the agenda of the day session, we have this initiative to support the session hall. That's why I'm voting for support for the proposal by the author of the legislative initiative to withdraw the bill under number 1012. Deviation. Please vote. [[13:41:21]] For 251 Copy that. Tomenko with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have now passed a third bill prepared by our colleagues from the Party of the Regions, which is aimed at social protection, the support of our citizens, who are of the utmost importance. Now, for example, the bill refers to the timely payment of salary and responsibility when this payment does not take place. I understand, of course, that these bills were registered when the Party of Regions was in opposition. But I think if I were to be honest, just to say that when a national MP registers this bill, he would have to go out and say that he's a respected colleague, because we're in power right now and we're not interested in implementing this project, we're taking it down. Because I love each other. And nobody seems to understand what's going on. I want to say it again. We think it's a very important bill, like the next one, by the way. So let's just say honestly that the party's status has changed and social bills have now ceased to be relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, calm down. At the request of the subject of the legislative initiative, we took the matter up because they wanted to work on it, they wanted to work on it. Please, Harry's microphone. Oleg Lazko, well, don't run Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I am very pleased that colleagues from the BUT faction so support the bill of which I am the author. But I want to explain the reasons. Our committee supported the bill and very many comments were made. There's a big problem. For the period 2005-2006, over a billion wages have already been paid to active businesses. Well, the question is what. Today, this law could not have been passed in the hall. I was approached by representatives, employers' opinions: “Let us work out, find compromises to resolve the issue, and then put it into the room and vote”. Just to save the law in this room, I asked him to be transferred to the next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, that's what I said. And I think we're going to do it wisely, to do it completely, then we're going to go with you again first, it's going to multiply the papers again and so on, and so on and so forth. Let us hear, ask, this is their right under article 99. Please, it's Bondick Wallery's microphone. Bill 1224. That's the same request. Let him argue. It's on Conciliation. Bondica, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your sympathy for calling this bill off. But I took advantage of the rule of law -- article 99 -- and I ask you to return it for further work, because in the course of protecting my bill and in the Social Policy Committee, and in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, something arose. Consultations that moved me to consider these suggestions. I mean, it's not an observation, it's an offer. So, using the procedural rules, I asked the chairman to send a letter to return the bill to work on it. He's not taking off, he's going to be working on taking into account all the proposals and the trade unions' federations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, see article 99 of the Rules to which our colleagues refer. They have the right to withdraw. The Conciliation Council cannot do so now, for it is written that if included in the agenda, this is done according to the decision of the Supreme Council. I am voting on the transposition, the appeal to the drafting of the Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 1224]] Please vote. [[13:45:51]] For 237 Decision taken. The draft Decree amending articles 59-61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules is being followed. [[completed]] [[commission from 12.09.2006]] You recall that you then took the commission to consider today, the committee prepared. Registration number 2080. Please, from the profile committee of Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. Please consider the project in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u143	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. By order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 12 September 2006 at the meeting of the Committee on 13 September this year, the final edition prepared for the second reading of the draft Ordinance amending articles 59 to 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was considered and supported. [[Registration number 2080]] Adopted as a basis for a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on September 12, 2006. In order to take into account the comments and suggestions made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative expressed at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in preparing the bill for the second reading, a transcript of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was prepared since September 12, 2006. The committee considered the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies: School, Turkinova, Kovala, Onischuk, Kuzmenka on the proposed changes to part one of the first article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for a minimum number of national deputies to form a parliamentary faction and supported the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputy Koval for a new edition of part one of article 59 of the Rules. In view of the proposals for a new edition of part one of article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the proposal for article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is lost. The committee therefore supported the proposal of the Ukrainian deputy Sasa to exclude the proposed changes to this article from the draft decree. The Committee also considered and rejected the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies : Sasa, Laška, Onichuka on the exclusion from the proposed draft regulation of the amendment to article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such as in contravention of part six of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, since it provides for the right of the non-fractional Ukrainian National Deputy to form a coalition or opposition. At the same time, the committee supported the proposal made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Kiselov, to complete article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules with a new part of the draft decree before its adoption as a basis. In addition, I would like to inform the Ukrainian national MP Bespalogé of the proposals he has made for the draft decision under consideration. Regrettably, the proposals made by the national MP Bespalog came to the committee after his consideration at our committee meeting on September 13. At the time, I would like to point out that the proposals made by the national MP Bespalog are in line with the proposals made by the national deputies of the country of Sasa to article 60 of the Rules and supported by the committee and rejected to article 61. In completing the information, I ask for a draft decision to be made in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll go in the order of the second reading, we'll come. Even though there are no amendments, I will give Bespallah a word. Please, the school's correction has been rejected. Is he insisting? I don't see Andrew. The Turk's amendment is rejected. I can't see. Kowala’s amendment that the minimum number of national deputies for the formation of a parliamentary faction should be at least 15 national deputies. We need to vote because we made a different decision on the first reading. No one “pro” or “against” this amendment is willing to make a statement? Then I am voting to accept the amendment of the Koval People's Deputy to make part of the first article 59 read: “The minimum number of national deputies for the formation of the deputy faction should be no less than 15 national deputies.” Vote. [[13:50:47]] For 342 Although it is clear that this is the only way that we have established this calling, it is clear that life will continue. It's best not to be minimal at all, but the party that has passed is entitled to a faction. But we voted. Yes, please, Onichuka Mikoli Vasilovich's amendment is as follows. Well, article 59 of the Rules of Procedure, we've already voted Mikola Vasilovich, that is, the decision has already been made. Yes, the amendment of Kouzman Sergei. Kuzmanka also logically comes from what we voted on. Yes. Sasa’s amendment is considered to exclude the proposed changes to article 60 from the draft regulation, since they make no sense in connection with the new edition of the first article. I'm asking you to support really, since we've already voted on Koval's amendment to set a minimum of 15. Let us support Sergio Sasa’s amendment so that we do not touch 60 articles and leave it as it is. Please vote. Vote. [[13:52:12]] For 363 Copy that. And finally, dear colleagues, now we're going to exchange our thoughts and make decisions about the latest amendments that apply to the next one. When we made the decision in the first reading, we wrote down "to add that the non-factional people's MP has the right both to join the coalition, to declare his support for the coalition and the opposition." Regrettably, the profile committee has made a different decision that it has removed the “oppositions”. He had no right to do so. Rather, he may offer us, but on the first reading we accepted both the coalition and the opposition. So there's a lot of thought here, let's write it down with motivation, and then let's figure it out. I'll let you sign up later. We're going to vote. Sign up for the factions, please. The factions. Now we're talking about this. Yes, please. With your permission, five minutes. But I'm going to make every faction come out of desire. Eugene Gorenik, please, from Our Ukraine. I got it, I got it. It'll be all right, Oleg. Don't worry. It'll all be under the Rules. Who? Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u145	Incorruptible, Our Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I'm still going to insist on my replica that applied to my amendments, but right now, since there are statements from the factions, I want to come up with a fundamental question. The point is that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the subjects of the coalition are MP factions. The subjects are factions! And a coalition agreement is signed and accepted first by faction leaders, and then signed by members of these factions. And by the way, they can either sign in full or not in full stock. And so in the face of what has been said from the rostrum, perhaps the representative of the Rules of Procedure Committee is just a proposal that national MPs can join a coalition on an individual basis. Even the nature and structure of the coalition do not fit. So we ask you to remove this, and not go back to that, and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u146	Right. Please, Sadowy, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u148	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u149	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, we support the draft law in which its committee supported it for one simple reason. To date, no legal instrument has the right to revoke the constitutional rights of a deputy who has been given a mandate. Why should we keep it only within certain limits? Why should he be within one faction? Depending on how his views will change, how the situation will change, we must create normal conditions for his work. If this political force is not supported in the next election or this MP is not supported by political force, please make an election, please make a selection, do not create the conditions of a passing court, when the lists are not understood by anyone, so as not to run after them!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u150	Please, Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to point out that the issue under discussion is a direct testimony to the continued abuse and rape of our Constitution in this room. There are no non-fractional deputies in the Constitution. The subjects are factions according to the Constitution. And so this question has no right at all to exist and to discuss. Secondly, there is no justification for the scientific expertise of this, the Legal Authority has generally concluded against this. So what are we talking about, reverends, what are the "upfractional" ones? The MP can't sign any coalition entries outside the faction -- only factions create a coalition, and I agree with my colleague Bespal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u153	YuriMirochnichenko, Party of Regions. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, the point is, even from a legal point of view, you can't deny the legal status of the Ukrainian national deputy, that's the first. And accordingly, all actions that take place and are linked to the formation of a faction, to the formation of a coalition, are directly linked to the people’s deputies. And the project that we are now being offered is to separate those deputies who have left the factions from the factions, to give them some legal status as nonfractional, and then they become the subject of a relationship in, in line: opposition and power. And we are now regulating their legal status accordingly. That is, they become subject to relationships: either, and positions, in fact, as national MPs, or they are part of the majority and share responsibility for the executive branch of power, or they become part of the opposition and thus carry out the mandate that the community delegated to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u154	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, from the factions have spoken, I will now give every author the opportunity to make amendments to this norm if they wish. Please, Sergei Sass. Do you have a wish? Please, the microphone. Get ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Dear colleagues, well, in this case, this is a eloquent example of how you can trample on the Constitution, the Rules, if, even if it's illegal and anyone really wants it, then please. The point of my proposal is that the non-fractional national MP has the right, on a personal request, to join the coalition or the opposition, to exclude. As this rule contradicts articles 83 of the Constitution, article 58 of the Supreme Council Rules, article 61 of the Supreme Council Rules. With regard to the addition to the opposition, this is contrary to the rule of law itself. Because in the first reading, this cannot be done. Therefore, this cannot be done because the legal status of the opposition today is not enshrined either in the Constitution or in the Rules. That is also true of the Supreme Council’s jurisprudence. You can cancel the Rules, you can do anything, but you don't have to do it the way you do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Baby, please, Oleg. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. My colleague, Sass, already mentioned by my colleague, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, notes that the proposal to supplement Rule 59 of the Rules in Part 4 that a national deputy who is excluded from the MP is non-fractional is not in line with the title of this article — “Contents for the formation of MP factions” and according to the sequence of the presentation of the normative material does not fit in the text of the existing regulations. In addition, with regard to the addition of article 61 to the new part of the fourth on the right of a nonfractional MP to join the coalition, such an offer ignores constitutional references. In particular, according to article 83 of the Constitution, the coalition’s subjects, as has been said more than once, may be just MPs, not individual deputies. Vasil Alexiyovich, I suggest you listen, if not to the voice of the politicians who are in this room, to the vote of the lawyers of the Supreme Council and work once again to work on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u158	Please, Mikola Onichuk. Then it's OK.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u159	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The committee now refers to article 83 of the Constitution and points out that it provides for such a possibility. Well, I think that the Constitutional Court, on condition that if this rule is voted today, will find out which is consistent with the Constitution and what is not, but what we should really mean is that we went, took the right step when the Supreme Council Rules did not provide for the possibility of a people's MP who was expelled from one faction to another. Notice that we have actually put in place a proportional electoral system and we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. Now, in fact, we're taking a step back, allowing a national MP without joining the faction to become a member of the ruling coalition. He was not the subject of the political process. Only parties have political responsibility. So it is very controversial, to put it mildly, to say the least. And respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u160	Please, Vasil Kiselov, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u161	I am glad for the position expressed by Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. And I want to continue his thinking to remind everyone that his proposal tells us whether the conclusions say that even the best law can't predict what's really going on in life. So I support my colleague, Miroshnichenko, that we should vote on this norm, as we now propose, and this regulates the relationship between opposition and coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u162	Please, Boris Bespali. Boris Bespallium, microphone. They'll turn it on, they'll turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u163	Thank you. I just can't. Insomnia, “Our Ukraine”. Do not react to the final line in the mouth of the legislator who proposes to legitimize anything that works. For example, we have cases, I've been approached, I've been robbed. Let's legitimize the robberies. They are already legalized, called “the plagues of the law. ” So you want more coalitions in the law here. Now I'd like to say. It was normal for a stenographer to be processed. But my amendments were not processed, which were made on the day of the decision on the basis. Why was there such a hysterical panic, why did the committee consider the decision literally after a few hours of its adoption in the first reading, even though the Rules set aside two weeks to do so? This suggests that they wanted to rush the matter into the wrong place. And so, I don't think we should add work to the Constitutional Court, it's accumulated a lot because we blocked it, by the way. We do not need a coalition on the principle of “Ukraine-Poland-Russia+You”. There are no such coalitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u164	Boris Yakovich. Wait, please. Boris Yakovich, I never understood what your proposals were. What's not to include this norm, right? I see. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. All those who had the opportunity, as amended, have already made themselves known. Even more than I could have. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Calm down. You see, we really, you see, dear colleagues, we really got into a situation with you. And the right ones who say that the Constitution says yes, and the right ones who say that the Constitution says that a national MP is right. That's why we're voting now. If those who disagreed with the decision we were going to make were absolutely fair to say that there was a reference to the Constitutional Court, 45 people's deputies, and we would be reconciled by the Constitutional Court, but there is a situation where we should give an answer to what to do to those people who were expelled from factions. They cannot be deprived of their mandate because the Constitution does not allow it. They remain national deputies. So if they are national deputies, they have all the rights and duties of Ukrainian national deputies. So now we're going to vote on this amendment, we're not voting on this amendment as a whole. We vote amendment, we vote amendments. We will vote on every amendment that has been tabled. Sasa's repair. It's rejected, but he insists on voting, that we don't write down, not write down, as far as the opposition is concerned. Right, Sergey Volodymyrovich? Yes. I'd like to make up my mind. 12th Amendment, 12th Amendment. [[2:06:05]] For 106 Not accepted. Next amendment of the People's Deputy Lazko. Exclusion. as one that is contrary to the requirements of Part 6, that is, the right of entry of a non-fractional national MP to a coalition or opposition. Edit colleague Lazko. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:06:36]] For 165 The same is true of Onichuk’s colleague. Is there a need to vote? Vote. Vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:07:02]] For-163 That's why I'm voting. Who is in charge of accepting such an editorial opinion: “The post-frakation national MP has the right to join a coalition or opposition on a personal application.” Please vote. This will be written in the coalition's regulation or opposition. [[14:07:31]] For 239. Copy that. Yes, dear fellows, all the adjustments have been taken into account. With motive? Please write down the reasons for the vote. Factions, please. Vasily Alexiyovich, you can sit down now. Have a seat. Thanks for the job. Please, five minutes Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u165	Thank you. The Julia Timoshenko faction. Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u166	Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u167	Thank you, Ruslan. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the text that has just been voted upon. The Postfaction People’s Deputy has the right to enter into a coalition or opposition on a personal basis. So now we've created a peremptory norm for that national MP who wrote a statement without the coalition's consent, without anything else, he has the right to write a statement and enter it. As far as opposition is concerned. We accepted the standard. But today there is no norm in the legal field, both in the Constitution and in the Rules - what is the opposition, who is the opposition today? The law of opposition for today is not adopted to this day. That's why I welcome you with such money in the Rules. We'll go a long way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u168	Please, Bespali, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u169	Please hand over Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u170	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I am one of those deputies who rarely requires you not to comment on the speeches of your colleagues when you are in charge. But right now, I want your comment. And here's the thing. I don't want this to be a system, especially if it's such a tradition, I don't think it's a good one, the Regulatory Committee will start. There are rules of the Rules, including amendments, concerning second reading proposals. The two weeks committee can't know how, where, which deputies, which day, which day, which day, i.e., on the 13th, 11th or 10th they'll make their proposals. And the so-called pre-term review, as you know, for five years, is wrong. And I would like this to be the final time in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u172	Yes, please, what fraction we have left. Matvienkov, faction of socialists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u173	Respectable colleagues. Those MPs who do not work in Parliament for the first year and who follow few Ukrainian citizens for the work of parliamentaryism know that the greatest trouble and problem is the lack of a mechanism to recall a particular MP. The person who said one thing in the election, and in fact, did and did something else. These mechanisms, and these steps that we are taking today, we are in some way taking away a firm right or a mechanism to impose on a permanent, life-long human being a political force. It's a normal approach. I agree with the position that to date we need a law of size, we need a law of opposition. We are living today under new conditions for the adoption of new constitutional changes. We have to move on. But this rule, in any case, we must regulate and take this step in order to divorce, let us say, these are the difficulties we have so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, the "Regions" faction of Miroshnichenko. No, he was on, but he's somewhere else. Check the cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to have a lot of references to the Constitution right now, and I'd like to read the standard of article 83, which is what this is all about. In the Supreme Council, the results of the elections and the reconciliation of political positions form a coalition of parliamentary factions, consisting of most Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council. Dear friends! It is the decision that regulates this process. Most of them form factions, and they include specific MPs. When we define the status of a non-fractional national MP, we allow him to comply with the constitutional standard of majority membership. That's why it's perfectly normal to have a standard in order to procedurally address this issue. So once again, we can't stop the national MP from doing his thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We agreed that factions would speak. I remind Oleg Láška that from your faction was Sergey Sass. Now on the subject of those remarks. He has the right to join a coalition or opposition, but this right is realized by the rules of coalition and opposition. In the Rules of Procedure, it is described as on what basis, according to which the number of votes is decided by a national MP before any other parliamentary union. With regard to Rephat Chubarov’s request. I will read article 111 of the Rules, which says: The Supreme Council, i.e. proposals and amendments for the preparation of the draft for the second reading, are made within 14 days. That's part one. Part two, article 111. The Supreme Council can make a decision and cut this termin half. We've been looking at, I remind you, this is question 13.09. [[Now we're watching]] The Supreme Council decided to consider the matter definitively. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee considered, the committee prepared. That's where Sass is on the committee. All of it. All questions are discussed, so I am voting on the adoption of the amendments to articles 59 as a whole, to article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2080]] Please vote. Let's get some fingerprints. [[14:14:46]] For 240 Decision taken. And one more thing, dear fellows, be careful. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we decided that, in view of the situation that exists today in society around the Prime Minister's trip to Brussels and his statements, a bill of order had to be prepared. Order number 2189 has been prepared. Who's in charge of putting it into the agenda and looking into it, please vote. [[14:15:31]] For 236 It's on. Who will report from the authors? Please, Eugene Kushnarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u177	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The NATO theme is well known to all, and it has often been the cause of heated discussions both in the session hall and in society as a whole. This subject was also a subject of special discussion during the work on the Universal of National Unity. Finally, with the participation of various political forces that stand for different positions on this issue, we have achieved the corresponding compromise that has been set out in this document. Let me remind you, it's the next one. Ukraine reaffirms its desire to promote cooperation with an authoritative NATO international organisation in all the directions envisaged by the relevant instruments. At the same time, with respect for the will of the Ukrainian people as the only source of authority, we have clearly stated that such a decision as Ukraine's accession to NATO can be decided solely by the Ukrainian people in a general Ukrainian referendum. So I ask what is different from the letter and spirit of this document, as well as any other documents, including the relevant article of the Ukrainian National Security Act, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich's address in Brussels on September 14th. I'm saying nothing. Viktor Fedorovic once again stressed -- and this position is perfectly normal for both NATO and the international community -- that Ukraine respects this international organization and is ready to cooperate widely with it. At the same time, he said that it was the efforts of some vulnerable politicians to accelerate this process artificially and to fulfill certain obligations to someone and that, in the society of Ukraine, the proportion of those who do not want to join NATO has increased significantly over the past year and is now three quarters of the population of Ukraine. How, then, can high officials who represent the State of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people make statements that do not fit social sentiments? This is what Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic stressed, once again determining that the decision on NATO's entry, and then any concrete action aimed at Ukraine's accession to NATO, can be made solely on the basis of the will of the Ukrainian people. I am one of the authors of the draft law on Ukraine's entry into international military and political alliances. This bill has already begun and has been considered by the relevant National Security and Defence Committee, where it is unanimously supported, because this bill is intended to clearly define the mechanism for the Ukrainian people to take decisions on the possibility of joining any international, military or military political union. That is why our coalition, on the basis of a coalition agreement that clearly defines the position of the three political forces on joining NATO, proposes an appropriate draft decision to which we invite all to support the position of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine, issued in Brussels on 14 September 2006 during the meeting of the "Ukraine-NATO" commission on mutual cooperation "Ukraine-NATO", while clearly suggesting that further concrete action on Ukraine's accession to NATO can be decided only on the basis of the will of the Ukrainian people. We also propose to strengthen the need to move towards the rule of law security, strengthening democracy, political pluralism and the market economy, respect for human rights and the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, that is, those values shared by the European community today. We also propose that the Cabinet of Ministers do everything possible in Ukraine to provide broad and objective information about NATO, about the position of those who want and propose to join NATO, on the position of those who see this danger to Ukraine. This is total pluralism of political thinking. Finally, it is proposed that the Committees of the Supreme Council be entrusted: in foreign affairs and in matters of national security and defence, by first November 2006, to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law that will determine the specificities of Ukraine's entry into any -- I emphasize -- of any military or military union. Members of the MPs would like to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes, Mother Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u179	Please pass on the word to Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u180	Please, Mikoli Onichuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u181	Dear reporter, a few questions for you. Please tell us the conclusions of which committees you are about to announce, unfortunately, that you said nothing about this is the first. Second, the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, because it's a legislative initiative. And the third question, rather to the chairman, is, who gave the order to distribute a bill in the session room that was not included in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u182	I think the first part of your question will be answered by the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As the initiators of this bill, we registered him and he was sent to this committee. What exactly was happening on the committee? It's a matter for the committee head. The rest is a procedure that I personally have no bearing on, so I don't think it's up to me. All we had to do, as the authors of this, was draft this decision -- we did -- we prepared a draft ruling, we prepared a request to the Supreme Council, we prepared an explanatory note, and we registered this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u183	Please, Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u184	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Eugene Petrovich, you say you don't have or understand, you don't have responsibility for the breach of procedure, but the chairman put in less than an hour ago to vote on the proposal that we will consider until we have exhausted the agenda. That question was not right in the daytime. Does it offend you as a reporter on such an important issue that there is no one in the cabinet's bed, that in such a frivolous order we are invited to consider, by the way, the Prime Minister's authority? You, as one of the leaders of the Party of Regions, should understand that in this way we undermine the authority of the Government, because none of the ministers, after the Prime Minister's visit to Brussels, has given information and not only to the sessional room, but also to the profile committees. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u185	about the first part of your question. I believe that when people's deputies, including me personally, are given the right to decide whether or not to vote, this is the highest democratic norm. If I am against it, I always vote against it, but if the majority vote, the question is not on the table, but if the majority vote in favour, that is the will of the majority of the people's MPs in this particular matter. Once again, like the first questioner that I am not in charge of the Ukrainian Region, I am not in charge of such duties. As to the substance of the question, I want to draw your attention, as well as everyone who might still be asking the same questions, that the subject of this decision is not to consider, join or not join NATO. This is our initiative, the National Deputies, to support the political positions of the Prime Minister, which is recommended by the majority coalition, which as the government's leader is politically accountable to our coalition, and this is our absolute right to maintain a position, as well as to express another point of view to that position. To determine, I think we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u186	Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u187	Please pass it on to Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u188	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u189	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Well, about the violation of the region of Ukraine, it actually looks very noticeable and low. It's about a specific decision. The Supreme Council did not authorize the Prime Minister to express the view he had expressed in Brussels. Why do we have to vote in some way right now on what we didn't do? And secondly, it looks like an attempt to vindicate the Prime Minister for, well, "escaped the void." Joining the NATO accession plan does not mean joining NATO at all. Joining NATO or another military-political union is a referendum, and joining this action plan means economic, political and other reforms. You write here in the reform decree, and the fact that Yanukovich spoke in Brussels you actually gave them up and disgraced the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u190	That's no more than you think. And this is a testimony that we are living in a democratic state. That's your opinion, and me and my co-conspirators have a different opinion. I remind you that we have all been brought to Parliament, the political forces have brought the Ukrainian people into Parliament, with very different attitudes to this particular topic. Some think so, others think otherwise. We have come to Parliament to protect and implement the position that our voters have entrusted us with. Around these positions, we are united into an antichrist coalition, and we are successively moving from the text of a coalition agreement that we have adopted together. These are the new realities of Ukraine’s political life. Whether someone likes it or not. If you had formed a majority, you would have pursued your policies and we would have opposed you. And today, there's another situation. That is why we support our political leader, the Prime Minister, and we want to testify politically at the legislative level.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u191	Thank you, Eugene Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there have been a number of questions, I emphasize once again. I especially address those who met at the Conciliation Council yesterday. At the suggestion of the head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Moroz, that we consider a similar issue today, none of the members of the Conciliation Council objected. All came to the conclusion that such a question should be considered. So please don't blame me in a flat place, it's the will of the session room -- 240 deputies have decided that way. I suggest, if you want to speak, sign up and give each of the factions one by one of the factions. Who, in order to be able to speak, is guaranteed one by one from the faction, please vote. [[14:29:03]] For 169 Not accepted. We'll work on the Rules. Please log in from factions. Let it work. Sign up for factions. Yeah, everybody signed up. Now, please, who wants to take from the people’s deputies independent of factional belongings? Yeah, sure, we'll be talking for 30 minutes if you don't want 15. Please, Laško, the faction “Bloka timoshenko”. Get ready for Bespalloma. I don't care. Easy to pass on to Nemira. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, Grigory Nemira, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I think Mr. Kushnarov's thesis that, darling, let's live up to new realities means that some of the new realities are cynical breaches of the Rules. We've seen it twice today. Article 47 of Part 5 of the Rules was violated today. The chairman is well aware of this, but he has allowed the matter to be considered. Next. I want to report that the Foreign Affairs Committee has not been considered or decided on this issue. Yesterday an attempt was made to consult and the joint consensus of the committee decided that the issue was not prepared because the Foreign Minister, the Ministry of Defence, the MPO representative, had not been heard, and there were not even documents, originals, said the “Ukraine-NATO” commission. In the towers today, another committee was tried to assemble in foreign affairs, which did not meet because there was no consensus. Despite the fact that the decision calls for the rule of law, pluralism and the consolidation of democracy in Ukraine, an attempt is now being made to take a decision against these principles, which most of us call for. And finally, essentially the question that's being asked. What do we have to support? We are asked to support the Prime Minister's position. Think about it. The Prime Minister's position, which they disagreed with the following day, stated that they disagreed with the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President. I repeat, we are asked to support today's position as Prime Minister, with whom we have not agreed, and this has been declared publicly by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the President. You know very well that the National Security and Defence Council is preparing a meeting on this issue. Knowing that you're sharpening that question. Thus, the slogan: “Two Victors – One Country” is violated by you as representatives of the majority. And when we are told that part and that there is to be appreciated and a referendum, no one questions the holding of a referendum when the question of joining NATO becomes practical. What you're violating is the heartpiece of the Universal that you signed, our faction didn't sign it, where it's meant to follow the National Security Framework Act in its original form. That's what we're talking about! You are violating this law in public today. And I would also like the audience to know that if these laws are to be voted today, and I have no doubt that this decree is disgraceful, yet it will be extended, then obviously the image of Ukraine abroad suffers. Because abroad means that Ukraine does not speak with one voice. Prime Minister of one opinion, Minister of Foreign Affairs of another.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u193	You've made the right point. We support not the Cabinet of Ministers, but the Prime Minister. So ministers can think what they want. Insomnia, please. Who? Mikola's Jacob, please. Kuzmanko, get ready. Kuzmenko's handing over Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, as my deputy to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, I would like to support the previous speech by Grigory Mikhajlovich Nemiri, who is also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that yesterday, as a result of a consultation of committee members, we have decided that there is no need to violate the law and regulations to deal with this issue. Moreover, we are ready to consider the matter. We are ready to hear relevant information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and National Security and Defence. Yesterday it was presented, give it to me immediately, three different drafts of the decree, today the fourth one rolled out. There is no conclusion of scientific expertise. I would like to stress once again by calling on colleagues from the anti-crisis coalition: political support does not provide for zeal. Imagine what we're doing. From a legal point of view, what weight will this document have? It's a worthless document, because it's going into a colossal conflict with valid legislation. It is already in conflict with article 6 of the National Security Foundation Act. A law that had already been passed in 2003. It's going to be, uh, a fig leaf that's going to be taken from the supply of the anti-crisis coalition like this for the incomplete quorum of the hall by simply pressing the button. How do we care about Ukraine's authority, how can we help this Prime Minister, who only returned a few days ago and who has not yet considered this issue at the cabinet meeting? What is now being done is obviously an attempt to freeze relations with NATO. This needs to be discussed openly, and it is not necessary for the government to be instructed to adhere to the Constitution. Because what's listed here is, consistently and actively conducting a course on the rule of law in Ukraine, strengthening democracy is exactly what comes out of the content of all those documents, all the years of work that our country has done in the area of cooperation with the alliance. I think that the Ukrainians have already been able to see to it that the Ukrainians' high standards of democracy, the rule of law, effectively overcoming corruption, modernizing the economy and then increasing the well-being of our population are what came out of cooperation with NATO regardless of joining this organization. It's about achieving high standards. You're playing the ice game now, you're playing the story back.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u195	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Behind him, Yuri the Merchant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u196	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I am a proponent of urgent, acute problems being addressed in time for Parliament to work ahead. In this case, the Supreme Council has the power to confirm, I repeat, the requirements of the Universal National Unity signed by the Heads of State and factions who have formed an active coalition in the Supreme Council, namely, Ukraine's accession to NATO to decide only on the basis of the U.S. referendum. I appeal to the supporters of the immediate accession to NATO. Your Honor, you can't do this. What do you fear as a result of your decision? Because the draft decrees clearly set out the requirements to promote the dissemination of objective information on the role of NATO in today’s world and the direction of its reform in order to improve mutual awareness. That is, the opportunity for both supporters and opponents of this course to confirm, clarify, their positions. That is what the people lack right now. This is why such an explanation is widespread in the press, in the media, at meetings with voters, it will bring the solution to the problem and the final removal of it from the agenda. So I support, the faction of the Socialists will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u197	Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions. Behind him is Alexeyev Igor, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Now I'd like to look to our colleagues who support the accession of Ukraine to NATO, and I'd like to look at the very determination that my colleague is proposing and presented by Eugene Kushnarov. What is the point, and why did we need to consider this decision today? First of all, you know how great the resonance in Ukraine was when Victor Yanukovich went to Brussels. You know, there's a lot of politicians, both Ukrainian and non-Ukrainian, who are commenting on NATO. And today we are faced with the need to define the attitude of the higher legislative body towards this situation, especially in the context of the meeting of tomorrow's National Council, namely, the National Security and Defence Council, so that both the Chief of the Supreme Council present at this meeting and the Prime Minister know the position of the higher legislative body of Ukraine. And accordingly, we are obliged today to discuss and make a decision on the matter. Today we can present positions: both the positions of “Our Ukraine” and they are heard today by voters, both the positions of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” and the positions of factions that belong to the majority -- both the Communists, and the Party of Regions, and the Socialists. That is why we were simply obliged, and here we should thank the Head of the meeting that he has included this issue in the order of the day. And now for the very purpose. There is a concept of “mandat” in jurisprudence. This is especially important in international matters. And the mandate is the set of powers that the State of Ukraine gives to its representative, Victor Janukovic, at the meeting in Brussels, to make certain decisions. Now let's see what mandate Victor Janukovic had when he met with NATO representatives? See how he managed the documents. The first document is, of course, the Universal of National Unity, which was signed by everyone. And the laws first. Yeah? Knowing that the universal says that the decision to participate in any bloc, particularly NATO, is decided after the referendum, he had no right to sign the NATO entry plan. The first question has to be whether we come in at all and it's resolved in a referendum. Then the plan for such an introduction is signed. That's the first one. And another very important aspect is really what's written in our project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u199	Thank you, Yuri. Just a little clarification. I didn't include 236 people's deputies. Thank you. Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction. After him Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! I was part of a government delegation that was in Brussels, and, you know, it was very surprising to me that journalists who accompanied the government delegation in Brussels and started to chase the travel material to Ukraine after lunch and we had already received information that had already been received in Ukraine before this information had been received, I think, with someone early scheduled information campaign on the provision of information on the government delegation's visit to Brussels. This is the first time. It was also very surprising to me that Mr. Tarasyuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, Mr. Grizzenko, who had not found the opportunity to take part in this visit the next day, began to comment on this visit and looked not very ill, I think. [[One, I know, Minister of Disease.]] That's a second. Thirdly, the Prime Minister did not seem to fulfil any obligations to someone to sign the PPP plan, as the plan of action for joining NATO is also called. I don't know who these promises were made by the Prime Minister and maybe these promises are. The commitments were made by these masters ministers who commented on the visit. You know, the path I'm proposing is Ukraine's accession to the European Union, and we're supporting the country's European integration through NATO, I think, I think I'm confident of that, unpredictably. So I think that this decision -- I am the co-author of this decision -- I think it's necessary for society to understand that we are also doing the position of the Universal, including, and the solution to such an important foreign policy issue will only be addressed through a universal referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u201	Thank you. Please, Rephat Chubarov. Behind him is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, to be honest, it is almost uncomfortable for us to talk about such obvious things that we are all aware of. I have already given up the surprise that at each session chaired by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, there is a gross violation of the Rules. But I'm surprised to hear that, dear colleagues, that you agree that you're being so brutally manipulated. Obviously, though, it is worth knowing that if someone is applauding a breach of procedure in this room today, it may be that he will be in trouble again because of such receptions. I don't want to talk about the essence and content of this decision. But what I want to say is that these changes that might take place in the state, they happen because the procedure, the procedure that talks about either setting up or the standards of democracy or not, is being violated. See, in this draft decree, paragraph 3, the Cabinet of Ministers is charged with: “continuing and actively pursuing a course of security in Ukraine of the rule of law, strengthening democracy, political pluralism, promoting the dissemination of objective information on the role of NATO”. Look at the balconies: do you see at least one camera? Look at the government's bed: do you see at least one minister? Look at the diplomats' bed: do you see at least one mission? Why? But because in the morning, Adam Ivanovich, if this was nearly discussed at the Conciliation Council, you should ask questions about inclusion. I respect the initiative of our colleagues, I understand their approach to discussing and making decisions on this issue. But, my friends, I'm telling you this honestly, not the kind of shuler approach that's going on in this room. Because it doesn't pay attention to the government and to the man, Victor Yanukovich, who runs this government. Don't you get it? So we're talking about democracy, it's first of all procedures. And if these procedures are not followed in this very room, tomorrow we can even forget about this word "democracy" when we talk about our country. So that's why I'm asking you not to vote today, not to make a decision on this issue. Not because there's something, let's say, especially whether I like it or not, but because it's not doing that kind of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u203	Thank you. For the audience and those who do not know, I represent: Minister of Affairs, Relations, in connection with the Supreme Council – Tkalenko Ivan Ivanovich is present. Please, Valery Kamchatny, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kharkushina, Timoshenko Street, Kamchatno Valerius. I was less fortunate than a fellow Communist factionist who was a member of a delegation in Brussels. But I'm lucky in another, I'm a member of the Regulatory Committee. And that's what I'd like to do, maybe repeat with my colleague Chubarov, but I'd like to focus on some things your attention. Without touching the political content, the political component of the decision we were offered is, indeed, a serious issue. And that is why I would like to point out that such serious issues cannot be discussed under such conditions and with such violations of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. You and I are witnessing violations of the Rules, violations of the laws of Ukraine, the decision on the composition of the commission, the composition of the commission of inquiry, the special commission on tariffs. Today we are convinced again that our voters know how to rape the Constitution in amending the Rules, according to the factionary, non-fractional. Now it's happening again. I would like to remind you that, according to article 88 of the Rules, there was no prior review on the relevant committee, which is the first violation. In accordance with article 46, part 5, of the Rules, questions raised at the previous meeting may be referred to the agenda. There are no scientific findings. Scientific-expert conclusions. The Conciliation Council, which offered to consider the matter in a timely manner, is not mandatory; it is advisory; it is not imperative. This too needs to be noted. Next, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, you have continued your morning session for more than 15 minutes, thus also violating the Rules. From this I want to conclude, once again, that there is no doubt as to the seriousness of the issue under consideration, but we are doing a bear service to the Prime Minister, which is no gold. Therefore, I would like to remind everyone that the decisions taken in violation of the Rules and Laws are illegal. So if we make this decision today, it will be illegal, and you, the honourable coalitionists, will do Prime Minister Yanukovic the bear service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u205	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please prepare for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u206	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I would ask, above all, the Head of the Supreme Council of Alexander Frost or the chairman of Adam Martinyuk's meeting to report immediately on this issue to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yashchenk, because it is a violation of the letter of the Universal National Unity. It was only today that a member of the faction of the Regions made a statement from the faction and said that the faction of the Regions would observe the text of the Universal National Unity. Not far past the south, the faction deputy is making an appropriate draft of a decision that is contrary to the universal. Letters. And the spirit of this universal faction of the Regions is being violated a long time ago. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Of course, why is this question brought to Parliament by fire today: on Thursday Janukovic will be in Brussels, he knows. in Brussels, they know that the NATO situation in Ukraine is mixed, the public opinion is divided almost 50 to 50, and that is why Janukovic would like to support his position by decree of parliament and demonstrate that in Ukraine the point of view is clear. I don't think that's gonna work out. Third. The draft decree states to support Prime Minister Yanukovic’s position in Brussels. Dear colleagues, what position? Which one's Brussels? Where's the stenogram? How can we support a position that no one knows about? Are we going to be affronting the walls of parliament on international issues right now? You want to do it, but then you'll answer. In this regard, I propose, first of all, that I immediately invite Foreign Minister Boris Tarasyuk here. And only him. Not a deputy, not a first deputy, but just a minister, approved by us, a parliament responsible for the foreign policy area. Do not make any decisions until a decision has been taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Preparatory Committee on the subject. And until all these conditions are met, until the MPs are able to get to know the position of the Prime Minister, the position of the Foreign Minister, the position of the profile committee, we are obliged, I believe it is the duty of the presiding officer to remove it from consideration, because it has been made unregulatoryly, without complying with all the procedures that are envisaged in such cases. And finally, I would like to say that by such actions, the Ukraine Region, despite its public statements, will actually encourage the establishment in the Ukrainian Parliament of a powerful consolidated opposition of 200, no less, votes with which they will have many discussions on all the subjects of their government policy. This is the path that leads to nowhere, and this is not the way of national unity and national compromise. That's exactly what we're calling you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u207	Please, Mikola Sadowa, the Socialist faction. Prepare Oleg Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u208	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We get that the President, let's say, has one point of view, the Prime Minister has his point of view, and what about the Supreme Council? Does the Supreme Council have a point of view or not? And MPs, some of the deputies are called upon to support, say, the Prime Minister’s point of view or the President’s point of view. We should have our own point of view, because this is the Supreme Council, who chose us, who chose us, who chose the Ukrainian people, and we should ask the Ukrainian people first of all what he wants? Whether he wants to join NATO or he does not want to join NATO, and that is certainly only through a referendum. The referendum will say, "To NATO," which means NATO will say, "Not NATO," and we will not join NATO. Today, there are quite a number of political speculations in the Supreme Council Hall. And unfortunately, this kind of political speculation often leads to the fact that we're simply simply distorting the reality that we are. Today, it has been said that the suspended act of 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act has been suspended. Well, that's clearly not true, 57 articles on education, about paying off the debt to teachers, it works, and I would ask my colleagues, whom I respect, to stick to telling the truth here and less political speculation. So once again, I repeat that socialists are at the point of view of what we should ask people, what we should do with NATO, what we should do with NATO, whether we should enter or not, what we should support. Because it has this question, it's complicated and it has two components. This is the internal component that I've already talked about, the internal component is the will of the Ukrainian people. And the external ingredient is that situation outside, that environment that Ukraine is living in today. And they should certainly take into account both the inner component and the outer part. I repeat that the Supreme Council should act within the framework of the Constitution, within the framework of that signed universal that it is, and that is why we should have our own perspective. I agree with my colleague Bulbo that we should act with due weight and vote accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u209	Thank you. Please, Oleg Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! First of all, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, some representatives of our Parliament are now misleading our voters. There is no violation of the Constitution of Ukraine now! On the contrary, the Supreme Council today is demonstrating its desire to consolidate the Ukrainian society, demonstrating its desire to demonstrate the constructive work of the coalition created in Parliament. And this coalition is responsible for the government's actions. And it is the leader of the Party of Regions, National Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, who has clearly observed those norms that were discussed and agreed upon at the time of the signing of the Universal National Unity, once again confirmed the exclusive will of the people of Ukraine, the exclusive will of our constituents, who for you, honourable representatives, our colleagues, voted by the citizens of Ukraine, may be the decisive force that will allow us to say openly whether Ukraine will be in NATO or not. It is this decision today that reinforces the need for a broad explanation of what this is – NATO – and for what it is for the average citizen of Ukraine. It is this decision today that emphasises that Ukraine's cooperation with NATO is a policy principle of government, cooperation, honourable colleagues! And let me stress once again not to mislead our fellow citizens who see us and hear us. This decision is absolutely necessary. Because it is a guarantee of stability in Ukrainian society, stability and solidarity. We are today demonstrating that compromise is an opportunity to really unite Ukraine. And I would like to stress once again that it was this very decision that was made by the representatives of the three political forces that formed the anti-crisis coalition: The Party of Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Socialist Party – this is a document, this is an example, and this is once again an opportunity to demonstrate the possibility of unifying the people of Ukraine on the basis of understanding, unity, so that every ordinary citizen of Ukraine feels the main bearer of state power and has the opportunity to have a truly comfortable and prosperous life. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support this determination. And at the end of the day, there is no violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, there is desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-19-m0.u211	I think we'll do it. When you give your colleague the word Kalashnikov, turn off the microphone, save electricity, because you can hear it anyway. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of Order 2189 on the position of the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the meeting of the “Ukraine-NATO” commission. Please vote. [[15:00:10]] For 242 Thank you. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, by the factions, please. It's pretty clear here. Region Party – 185, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 6. But for no further charges to be made, it is clear that the Yulia Tymoshenko Block is the ones who will be part of the non-fractional after the decision is signed. “Our Ukraine” – 1, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21. Dear colleagues, I apologize for the delay. But it was better to work 40 minutes, not two hours later. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. There will be no evening. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. Good luck.
