ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u1	I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[17:53:49]] There are 303 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Ladies and gentlemen, today the President of Ukraine has initiated consultations on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you know, such consultations have taken place and I will inform you of their content. In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we adopted on July 24, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is meeting immediately. And paragraph 2 of this decree assigns me as the Head of the Supreme Council to gather you when the need arises. I've announced a 17-hour meeting, but the President's consultations have stalled, so I think you've made it clear that this meeting started about an hour later. So essentially, the consultations themselves. Once again, I stress that the President exercises his constitutional right to consult, which comes out of the relevant articles of the President's Constitution, and that no one questions his right. The conversation, I think, was open, to the extent possible, in situations that consisted, in particular, of the relationship between the branches of power and between, inter alia, the President and Parliament. So the point was that on June 22, a coalition was formed — a repeat chronology of our joint actions. On July 6th, it was a different form of coalition because our faction came out of the coalition and it seemed to have made it impossible to form a coalition like this, but another coalition was formed, in accordance with the Rules, of the Constitution of Ukraine. And even though there were opinions that things weren't all right here or that, I say yes, and you know that the coalition was created in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, to the Constitution of Ukraine. There have been thorough additional consultations on the preparation of the programme, the joint action programme, and you remember well that these negotiations have been held for a long time, and it turns out that they went not only in the format, provided that the coalition, which was created by 22 numbers, but in the same way went with the Party of Regions and “Our Ukraine”. And the 22nd was supposed to be a coalition made up of two parties, but for unknown reasons there was, at that time, no such idea, and a coalition was announced in the Ulysses of Timoshenko, the Socialist Party and Our Ukraine. And then it went on as you can see. Of course, the President, in carrying out his constitutional duty as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution, wanted the policy of power and today he wanted the policy of power and parliament, including, and the Cabinet of Ministers, to be consistent with those of internal, external politics, as he did during the election campaign itself and, of course, took into account the position of voters who gave their votes to certain political forces. So he insisted that we be able to identify clearly from the key issues that are now somewhat divisive in society and in terms of language, in terms of federalism, in relation to religion, in terms of foreign policy, in particular, in terms of ensuring the security and stability of Ukraine, in terms of a vector of development on one side or on the other, or on the East, or on the West, and so forth. The president further said that since these issues are living in society, but there is no clarity on this point, he initiated a round table because he is convinced now that understanding is and, even the holding of this long round table, which has not yet been successfully completed, nevertheless, opens the way for a compromise to bring together the positions that today are calling for discussion in society. As the President said, it seemed to him that yesterday at about 23 o'clock he was convinced that the discussions were stopping, because most of the positions of the document, which he called the Universal, "Our Ukraine", were understood, could be called "a prize". But this is the document that speaks of compromise. That's what we're talking about. But today he sees in the morning that he couldn't get to the signing parameters of the round table. Although, really, I have to say that this is the initiative of the President's Administration, which obviously could have been initiated, the meeting at 10 a.m. was announced yesterday in order to end the dots above and above. However, this is the political side of the matter. As far as the official side of the case is concerned, the President thinks it's been 60 days, 26 days, if I'm not mistaken, a number, after the form defined by the Constitution has not been formed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and therefore the President has the right to dissolve Parliament. We will not now challenge this right of the President, because it can be debated and the Constitution of Ukraine defines differently the definition of the suspension of parliamentary powers, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, and 60 days are used only in one case when it comes to the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Our Cabinet of Ministers has suspended its mandate until the new Cabinet of Ministers is formed. I want to remind you that in July, when we created a new coalition, we announced a nomination from the Anti-Crist Coalition, which is made up of the majority of parliament, 243 or 240 deputies. We have announced the nomination from the coalition for prime minister. The eleventh official number, since Parliament or the Rules require such a procedure, we announced this at a meeting of the Supreme Council and I did so by at the same time signing a submission or a proposal to run for office as Prime Minister of Ukraine. We are not currently discussing the 65th, 66th article of the Rules, because the 66th article clearly defines the right to do this coalition, but the President has made an official letter to the Supreme Council about what is unacceptable to him, because in this case, he is referring again to the Supreme Council Rules, which is, by the way, an internal parliamentary document. However, 18 numbers, when I met the proposal, the President's request, or the President's request, I signed a re-signed letter with, regarding the Prime Minister's candidacy, I named the name, which was defined by the coalition, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. At 12 o'clock today, the term for a 15-day resolution of the matter by the President is due because 106 articles of the Constitution stipulate in an imperative order that he is obliged to submit this nomination for consideration by the Supreme Council. I think that the consultations today are also to some extent related to this term. Not only 60 days previously mentioned as a formal basis for the President to take such a step, but 15 days in which he must either follow the full rules of the Constitution or somehow deviate from them. For this reason, a conversation took place involving all those invited there. In particular, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, asking him why he was not nominated, also using his right to make himself known in this case on a formal basis for 60 days, in fact, he could have explained it, could not have explained it, and he also wanted to be clear about the external and internal policies that would be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian Parliament. I will not refer here to the comments of some of the invited experts, lawyers and others who referred instead to the spirit of the Constitution. I think the spirit of the Constitution is better known to me, because I've written these standards, but if we don't follow the Constitution, and I'm sorry, I can't smell it, it won't make sense. We have to abide by the laws, the Constitution to everyone. I'm not saying that in order to, let's say, enjoy your comments, it's just a requirement to me, and to everyone who's here, to the MPs, to all the authorities. Commenting on the subject, Julius Timoshenko, Jr. Volodymyrna Timoshenko, spoke first of all. She, I'm not going to comment on her, because she might be able to comment on it herself. Yeah, actually, she's gonna do it on TV right now. Hence, she evidently repeats what she has repeatedly said, referring to the people as the source of authority. And the socialist party was on the block with the president and so on, and all the representatives, so to speak, Maidan. And now another thing happened, and the voters voted for one thing, and there seemed to be a coup in Parliament. I had to say that the Socialists really supported the president in a consistent manner, as no political force. Unfortunately, however, the “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” was on the opposite side. However, that was not the case at the time. And once again, the message or the reference to the spirit of people's choice is something that's so ephemeral, it's not what's written in the Constitution, in the law and in the programs of electoral political parties. Now I'm not going to analyze the election programs, the documents that were printed in 600,000 books, where the president was honored, the socialist party and so on, we forgot about it. We're talking about the results of the elections, and then all the factions, the parties in Parliament, according to the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. Vasil Petrovich Tsusko, as a representative of the Socialist Party, said that we are not afraid of re-election, we can go through it all, but it's not the way out. Because we understand very well that the positions of the political forces in Parliament will be more clearly defined. And it's clear what the result will be. Everyone's planning on something, and it's going to be decided eventually by the electorate. But this was confirmed by the president later, others, that the configuration of the political forces would obviously not change, and these problems would have to be solved in two places if the elections were announced. The whole thing is that Parliament can't be dissolved by then. And the question will have to be resolved definitively, as defined in the Constitution. Would it be better for society? I'm sure you don't. I think the president's gonna be thinking about it right now because he's worried. I sincerely believe that he is concerned about Ukraine’s prospects. Viktor Janukovic, speaking from the Party of Regions, said that after the elections the Party of Regions had proposed a coalition with “Our Ukraine”, she offered. However, all negotiations took place according to procedures. True, I know that this has been officially announced as a consultation. But in any case, the program or more and the agreement that was being prepared for the three political factions is meant for “Our Ukraine”, the Socialist Party and the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” has been initialled by the Party of the Regions. Just the day before the coalition of democratic forces had to be announced, only the agreement was that such a coalition would be announced. At least that's what Victor Fedorovich said. I have no reason to doubt that. And in the negotiations, no one objected. The program is the same as there. Only time can overcome the differences, said Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich. The round table showed that compromise could be sought. Of the 30 positions that were there, there were still about three positions, the formulas. compromises that have also been expressed. And he said that after the elections and in the work of parliament there should be no winners and winners. And we've seen how this has been demonstrated here not once, and that there's no desire to go to the elections, but they're looking at it in a calm way, the Party of Regions is looking at the elections, and it knows that success will be ensured and, in fact, sociology confirms it, you know that too. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko offered to overcome the contradictions in our consultations. Speaking of which, if a discharge order is issued, the election is in 60 days. And he says that the parties won't change from that, and the programs in the parties won't change, and the agitation will go the same way, and again, the topics that are being used today at the hearing, the talk about NATO, the religion when it's needed, because in my opinion, in the election, no one mentioned anything in the religion at all, and so on. So the point is that the political tension is going to get worse, and it's pretty decent today. The fact that a round table was displayed in the audience of some 10 million citizens indicates that people are watching very closely the progress of events in the higher echelons of power. So he said in his speech that no party, and no Communists, in particular, would fit into the program, let's say another political power, because he made an argument here. The compromise is difficult at the round table because, in fact, all the positions that are approaching the unification of the political forces are provided only by concessions from others, not by our Ukraine. So "Our Ukraine" is clearly in the right position and he says, if we want to compromise, let's say, we can't all of the political forces in this document stand up for the pre-election programme of one political party. I think this argument could have been taken into account. Roman Immortal of "Our Ukraine" said that there is a formal basis for the dissolution of parliament. Again, this can be viewed as a topic for discussion, but the reasons for this can be taken into account by considering many nuances. He was talking about a parliamentary crisis that's going into a government crisis. In my opinion, I was able to speak out on this point today, we don't have a parliamentary crisis, just in Parliament's work in sessional sessions, yet it doesn't take part in one faction, but it does work on committees. We've passed a few dozen laws, more than a dozen laws signed by the President, almost half of them passed by a constitutional majority -- over 300 votes. In other words, there is no need for a parliamentary crisis. We're working on the pattern that was approved during the day-to-day arrangements for today's session and the calendar plan for today's session, and it's all going in the right mode. It's about not forming the Constitutional Court, because he talked about it further, it's a topic after the Cabinet of Ministers was formed, and it will be decided beyond a doubt. I mean, talking about the parliamentary crisis, how Parliament's inability to perform its functions doesn't have to. I hope that the President will take this into account. The one who proposes a way out, Roman Petrovich, he says we should give Parliament a chance if we don't dissolve it, because there is an option: either to give it a chance or to dissolve Parliament today. To return to the Prime Minister's nomination, to transform the coalition of the new, perhaps the same candidate as the prime minister to propose, two weeks for all of this, to return to the situation from 6.07. In this discussion, I was forced to say that what Parliament is doing is hanging in this uncertain state. So every day it can be dissolved, because the time is gone, and the clarity is not, firstly, and secondly, the problem of creating a treaty in some context is already something that has been signed, and now the change is looking for it, whether based on the positions that have been reflected in the universal, or in the universal project, or in some other way, there are no guarantees. So I made this point right away to Viktor Andriyovich that this is obviously an unacceptable option, because I'm going to have to speak in some strange light to Parliament, because that completely ignores the position of 450 deputies. I mean, they're either defining today's release, and then we're looking for adequate steps, or we're signing those documents, including, we're considering the Prime Minister's candidacy, we're forming the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're doing all the other things, and I guarantee that tomorrow we're going to solve all the questions about the organization of power, taking into account the positions of "Our Ukraine" and those political forces that think we're in opposition. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk focused on the need to comply with the Constitution, quoting certain positions, saying that we should not go beyond the Constitution in our declarations in advance, or if we should think about it, in line with those positions. Therefore, there is no need to try to beat one another at round tables, for it is not a matter of gratitude and is ineffective and must be governed by the Law. Then we will train society to be guided by the Law, not to train it to be irresponsible. I realize that everyone in their own comments talked about the claim to one political power or another, but this is a natural thing for such negotiations, for round tables. In the end, Victor Andriyovich said we were different, but we need to give people a clear answer, send them a message about it. And what Ukraine will be like, which we will stand up for, and so on. Finally, he thanked all those who participated in these negotiations, who took part in their consultations. I finally went to Viktor Andryovich, and said that in 2004, at the end of the year, we made a political decision, the Supreme Council there played a stabilizing role in society, and I want to say, it was liked by someone who didn't like it, and obviously now in 2006 this function is back to the Supreme Council, and we have to make both constitutional and political decisions, because the question is extremely serious. I have concluded my thinking in such a way that today we see the development of a scenario that is authored by people or circles that are unfriendly to the President. I am deeply convinced of that. And I think that this scenario should not be followed by events. Of course, by going to the polls, everyone has their chances, their perspectives, their orientations, it's his right. But I'm back to the idea that a better warehouse for any parliament than I am today will not be able to secure. That's why the President's choice and the choice is behind us. Finally, I would like to offer you one of these, and there I was talking about a baby story, remember, on the back when the two of them met. So whether we find a condition, if we're smart people, so we don't hit our heads or we're gonna knock and fall off the floor. This is a bad prospect for Ukrainian politics, for Ukrainian citizenship, which is obviously not about elections, but about authorities and parliament and government and the President taking care of the development of our state, guaranteeing sovereign rights, improving people's well-being and much more, I wouldn't want you to use my words here as a pre-election program. I think you all understand that very well, and all of you, representatives of all political forces, will think and say the same thing if you have to. So, the point is, tonight the President is going to make a statement to the people. What's the point of that appeal, I don't know. He said he didn't know yet. I mean, he'll take advantage of the conversation we had at the meeting by consulting us. He says that this conversation armed him with additional arguments and, depending on what he says, the Supreme Council should also act. So I would ask you not to stop this session today as long as we listen to the President, and then we'll make a decision. Thank you. [[Applause]] . I mean, if you don't mind, let's call it a break until this time, but we'll vote before then. Expressions. Would you like to say it? Well, let's go, let's go 5 minutes per. Sign up, five minutes. Please. Please sign up. Sign up from place to place for a minute, please. Just five minutes. It's possible from every faction. Cibenka, please. Peter Mikolaiovich, right? From the Communists. Oh, I'm sorry, I have a different sign on this monitor. Tarasov, please. From the Socialists, who will speak? Please, Boyko Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u2	I rarely speak, I could talk to the crowd, but I really want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u3	I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u4	I'm sorry, I don't speak very often, but I'd like to read you a letter. His 6th grade student, Stepanovich, wrote to our esteemed Bulbe. “You have a student of the 7th and 6th classes who has just moved from Poltava to Saxony. You worked in Poltava as governor and I'm writing to you as a countryman in the Supreme Council. Stepanovich, you need to do something. Please tell all the MPs who are barking and whistling that in 1667 there was a famous battle of the Gehtawas. At that time, our parents were not able to make peace either. Part of Ukraine was for the Gehtman John Brukhovecki, and part for the Gehtman Peter Dorosenko. Ivan Brukhovecki stood up for the poor in front of the Cossack’s chieftain. And Peter Dorosenko was a great military chief, even in the 30-year war he participated in and celebrated Ukrainian weapons there.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u5	Let me finish this interesting letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u6	It's all right. You'll figure it out. “But they and those who supported them could not reconcile. Then, in the battle between the Fish and the Beater, Dorosenko won formally. And the Bruchovite Cossacks were torn to pieces. In fact, the whole of Ukraine was lost in this battle. Because soon it happened. The truce between Russia and Poland, after which part of Ukraine was taken by Russia and part by Poland. That's the story he told me on the fisherman. The bets of one of Grandpa's fishermen, he must have been a history teacher. And you, Stepanovich, might want to talk about the battle of the Gehtman MPs. And then they'll realize that there's a way to make peace. For example, I have two friends from various parts of Ukraine, Misko Ilanski from Donbas and Marian Malik from Lviv. We were friends in a sanatorium in Eupatoria, where I treated a sick heart, and what we boys can do is control, and adults are smart and scientists are not. I really want to write about the battle of the Gehtman book." And so on. I just want to say one thing. I've just been meeting our heroes, and they might be here to confirm. I have expressed my clear opinion and my attitude towards one and the other. I know one thing: yes, today the Supreme Council will be disbanded. I said then that there would be one thing that would actually defeat the Regions, the communists and the socialists, that would get 60 percent. Scary in another, how are we gonna make it to the east? I don't know what they're talking about. And I know one thing, I've always worked and lived for one country, for my people, never changed. And today I walk honestly and in good faith, never afraid of anyone or fear anyone. And I want one thing: to finally make things really normal and not to make peace here. There is no difference between our Ukraine and the regions. All the same ideas that reflect interests, largely by industry groups, I assure you. That is why things are interesting, but we need to make sure that the people of Ukraine are not suffering, that we find a common idea, and that everything will take place. And then we will live, we live in one of the richest countries in Europe. And where are we being dragged? NATO. If we keep talking about being a nuclear-free, unblocked Power. What can we talk about? We talked about it everywhere. Can such things be agreed upon?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u8	I could talk a lot, but there's no time, I'm sorry. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u9	Thank you. Well, let's say three minutes from each faction, so there's no objection. Smyr, I'm sorry, Gunnery Evgen Alexiyovich of Our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u10	Eugene Górnik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u12	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, I would very much ask that you listen very carefully to what I have to say right now, without any replicas. Because I'm going to try to be very tolerant and very honest. The first thing I want to say is that I don't think we quite understand the challenge that the President put before us when he initiated this round table. We took the challenge as politicians, not as public men. I'm also addressing this charge first of all, because we're still talking about the President giving us the task of finding some compromise formulations that would still allow us to get into one common position. We're very wrong. The challenge that has been put before us and that we should answer, not as politicians, but as public men, the questions that the Ukrainian people are asking us. We are familiar with the list of such questions. We were unable to accept this challenge because we did not find the answer. So we found word twists that gave us the opportunity to talk about what politicians have found compromise on another occasion. But we were unable to answer the questions in society. It's about the round table. Now, about what's going on today. Alexander Alexanderovich, I am forced to criticize you because you started your speech by urging us not to interpret the Constitution. Then they went smoothly to their claim, which was actually the interpretation of the Constitution. So in your style, I also allow myself not to interpret, but at least to communicate my understanding of individual constitutional norms. I am deeply convinced that the spirit of the Constitution speaks of the fact that if Parliament persists in demonstrating its incapacity, then the President has the opportunity, he has the authority, to suspend the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u13	I ask you to listen to each other again! Well, in the end, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, listen to the man. Please speak, I'll give you another 30 seconds so you don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u14	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich! I'm not worried at all. And so I am convinced that, as the guarantor of the Constitution in the absence of the Constitutional Court, it is not the President's fault that the President has the authority to make a very important decision today. And the last thing I want to say. No matter what happens, however, we must understand that the time is already coming in the words of De Gaulle, “To act not as a politician who has to respond to what the electorate wants him to do, but to act as the State requires, as State interests require.” If we understand that, Your Honor, we can, indeed, build up courage and call ourselves the Ukrainian Parliament. If we can't do that, then we need to get out of this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u15	Thank you. He's got a word. Who will speak from the Party of the Regions? Please, Eugene Petrovich. From each faction one by one, I, we agreed from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear compatriots! We appeal to you in the moment when the question arose about the possible dissolution of the elected people of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u17	Eugene Petrovich, right away for clarification, the countrymen don't listen to us because this meeting is going on in the evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u18	We'll print it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u19	We'll print it. Then it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u20	We believe that the President has no legal basis for the dissolution of Parliament at this time. The Supreme Council is formed, the legitimate coalition is fully functioning, all committees are active, laws are drafted, laws are passed. The Parliamentary Coalition has nominated the Prime Minister in accordance with the Constitution and its own rules. And today, as the last day of the term on which the President is obliged under the Constitution to nominate the Head of Government for appointment by her Parliament, we are getting information about the start of consultations on the possible dissolution of the Supreme Council. Such a step can only be explained by the lack of a real assessment of the situation, both in Parliament and in the country and only by the inability of the head of state to rise above his own ambitions and ambitions of his surroundings. Such possible actions by the President as a departure from world practice, from democratic principles, from generally accepted international norms and standards by which a party-winner of parliamentary elections, along with coalition partners, forms and leads the government. All the people of Ukraine observed in these days a public discussion that took place at the national round table. People were convinced that the Party of Regions was very important and tolerant in this dialogue. We sincerely wanted to find an understanding, we gave this tone of discussion if compromises didn't look like the surrender of one side or the other, if there was no winner or winner, if we could actually achieve national unity. But we did not find the same attitude toward the participants in the dialogue on the other side. There was pressure, an effort to separate and emphasize the interests of only one part of society – the one who voted for “Our Ukraine”. It seemed that the president could only hear this political power. Nevertheless, the dialogue began. The fact that it was public, open-minded, created conditions for controversies that existed in society not only for politicians but also for all citizens. This is already a significant step in the way of understanding, of uniting the people, and that is the way to go, overcoming the contradictions and differences that exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u22	Imperatives, offensive poses, force demonstrations will only take a dead end. We will not gain anything through mentoring, but we will radicalize society and bring Ukraine closer to civil conflict. So we're risking today to ignite the fire of instability in the center of Europe, to open another hot spot on the map of the world. We urge the President not to take such a dangerous step, we urge him to remain in the constitutional field, to sign a political treaty between the President and the Parliamentary Coalition. To stabilize the situation and move forward with a joint plan, by normalizing the country's life, we call for responsibility for Ukraine's fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u23	Thank you. From the Communists, who will speak? Peter Mikolaiovich, please. A little further away from the microphone, because there's a lot of noise going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u24	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! For whom I will say that my point of view may appear sharp and sharp, that I have taken from this round table a meeting with the President. The President is in Ukraine and there is no President in Ukraine. That's my first conclusion. I am not talking about the economic or social issues that have arisen. We're in the country. What else would I like to consult with you, distinguished colleagues, and share the impressions? I have asked these questions to the President, how can you understand when before the elections you advocated us for the political structure of society and we have adopted the Law on elections on a proportional basis, we have held elections, we have given the people the right to choose those political programmes that they consider appropriate, on the basis of their personal interests, and the needs that lead them to some practical solutions today. The debate in Parliament was lengthy, the adoption of legislation, all of which gave us the opportunity to shape the country as a whole, both in the legislature and in the executive branch. We political parties have stated this differently and openly in the elections in our programmes. Some of us, the Communists, claimed that we were against joining NATO, we were in two public languages, we were talking about the Church and this, in the framework of the Constitution, we called on society to understand a particular issue, and that, I believe, is a frank and honest policy. Of course, at this meeting, I asked the President to answer one fundamental question. You are the head of State, from 18 to 25 July, at your disposal, the time to respond to the profile of the Anti-Cristian Coalition on Janukovic's candidacy. I have repeatedly asked the President to do so, and the President has not answered the question on what grounds he refuses to apply for Janukovic. The President thus crushed the will of the people of Ukraine, expressing his support for the three political forces: the regions, the Party of the Regions, the Socialist and the Communist Party. He did not respect the electorate and did not consider it necessary to do so. I was very concerned that the President had not addressed the economic situation, social issues, during the conversation. He is not interested in the problems of the people of Ukraine in the context that gasoline is now extremely expensive, bread, tariffs are increasing. I would also like to share my impression that the President poses a real threat to the growing conflict in society by not considering it as a particular category of electorate. The President is making the external political, external economic situation more difficult. That's why I'm addressing you today, distinguished colleagues. I believe it is necessary to state that the time has come for action. Why act?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u26	Why is it time to act? Because the President, above all, is working to destroy the anti-crisis coalition that we have created. By creating the theme of Universala, he is trying to replace the Constitution and this has become evident today during the conversation. He's not interested in the Constitution, he's interested in the Universal. The President today has expressed no concern about the increase in governance chaos, and you and I know that very well. It does not wish to consult the people of Ukraine through a referendum on the open, fundamental issues of concern to society, and this would remove many problems. What's to be done? And we are Communists in this case, I speak to you personally, and I am addressing you, distinguished colleagues, from the fact that the President does not intend to count on the outcome of the 2006 elections and to submit Januković's candidacy to the Supreme Council. I'm assuming the country is on the verge of losing control today. The budgetary process - it will naturally be implemented and formed. Therefore, I propose that the Supreme Council, without interfering with the President's promises today, should begin to form a government. Consider Janukovic's candidacy, vote and form a government. Thus, to place a point in the chaos of governance and irresponsibility from the point of view of the President's Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u27	Have a seat, please. To sum up our conversation as chairman of the meeting, I would like to say. I have come to believe that the President is genuinely hurting for the future of Ukraine, for the fate of the people, including for the economic situation, for the social sphere, etc. We don't go out with him once. Today, the subject of the discussion was somewhat different, so it is natural that we touched on other issues. But every political power in its own way thinks, in its own way evaluates the situation, and in the end it's a sign of democracy, which in Ukraine today is, by the way, all of those changes that have happened in recent years in our society. That's what I'm talking about. Next. Parliament will act in clear compliance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. There is no doubt about it. So I would like to receive your consent to announce a recess for the President's speech or for the President's address. As soon as that happens, I'll tell you right away. And then we'll continue our meeting. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[18:40:04]] For 256 Once again, the session is not closed, and the session is adjourned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u28	Well, by factions, please. According to factions: 186 – Party of the Regions, “Block of Yulia Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 17, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21. A break is being announced. We're announcing the timing of the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-08-02-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, outside the session room, I ask you to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please insert a card just in case so I can see if we can start a meeting. Dear colleagues, card so far 202, but with people in the hall, I can see that we have much more. We can start a special session. What news do you have, good news or better news? I'll do better. Well, then let's start with a good one and then an even better one. The good news is that our session is closed at this time. And better yet, tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
