ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u1	Deputies please come into the hall, take their seats, prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[16:01:34]] They're fixed by 437 deputies. I ask you to consider that the evening session begins. We have, I see, part of the factions of our Ukraine" not present, because they are now mostly at a meeting of the Committee on Banking, where, apparently, Peter Alexiyovich Prašenko is rehabilitating for my address in terms of containing SOT laws. But these are the details. We are now proposing a bill amending the Banking and Banking Act. The reporter for this case is appointed First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of State Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. I give him the word with satisfaction. Please take an active part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Allow me to inform you of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking. For quite a long time, this law had already been worked out in the Supreme Council, and it appeared in various texts in Parliament’s walls. Sadly, however, he did not receive adequate support. That law, which is now being proposed for consideration by parliamentarians, has taken into account all your previous comments, and is the following. Ukraine opened up financial capital markets for foreign banks over eight years ago. Today the restrictions on the presence of foreign capital in the statutory funds of any Ukrainian bank are lifted. In fact, this law allows for the opening of suitable \files and representations for foreign banks. I would like to point out that in the process of negotiations with the World Trade Organization, WTO members demanded a simple form permit to open a branch of foreign banks in the Cabinet of Ministers. However, the Ukrainian negotiators and the National Bank of Ukraine are urged to consider a rather harsh editorial that allows the foreign capital to work through appropriate branches and representations, as well as restricts foreigners to the order prescribed by the law. That's right. And so the branches of a foreign bank can only be opened if such a foreign bank has a statutory fund of over 150 million euros. The other one. Such a foreign bank is subject to all regulations of Ukrainian law, including those relating to the protection of the relevant investors. Third. The National Bank of Ukraine makes an appropriate agreement with the parent bank’s supervisory authority to oversee the branch. Thus, the Ukrainian banking system remains protected. However, the discovery of branches of foreign banks increases both the competitiveness of the Ukrainian banking system and will help reduce interest rates in the Ukrainian banking market. Let's take a nap.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u3	Arsenius Petrovich. Oh, it's a reduced procedure. I'm sorry. Peter Alexiovich. What does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u4	Reverend Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. I can only confirm what the distinguished Arsenius Petrovich said that the committee at its meeting had considered this bill very carefully. All the pros and cons have been analyzed, all the risks that accompany the adoption of the bill. And we can really confirm that if it takes 10 million to register a Ukrainian bank, it takes 150 million to have a foreign bank working in our territory. If banks from powerful Western countries are to function, banks in the West are to open branches in those countries where the investment rating is “a”, “2a” or “3a”. Unfortunately, our country has a smaller investment rating. Thus, the leading banks of Western Europe, Japan, and the United States will not begin to intervene in banking markets even if they are allowed to open these branches. And this is explained, first of all, by opening branches in a low - rating country, foreign banks will have to reserve their assets by 100 percent. At the same time, for the Ukrainian producer, for the Ukrainian consumer, the level of competition of banks will increase, there will be opportunities for more cheap loans, which should also be taken into account when considering the pros and cons of the bill. So we think, as a committee, that the law needs to be adopted in the first reading of careful processing in preparation for the second reading of the mechanisms for ensuring transparent competition and the importance of the influence of the State and the National Bank on the activities of the branch of foreign banks, which will be done in the drafting of the bill in the committee. Therefore, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the support of the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u5	Thank you. Please note your wish to speak for or against the appropriate buttons. I'm putting to the vote a motion to record statements from the rostrum for a reduced procedure. We've got two for Arjevetine and Terjehochin and Cibenko against. That's why Arjovitin is speaking. Please. Our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u6	Indeed, this bill will allow Ukraine to speed up its entry into WTO. This rule will give our banks the theoretical ability to open branches in other foreign countries, we get the opportunity to be more integrated into international capital markets. In fact, our committee accepted almost unanimously, but with some caution in order to protect domestic banks. And that's why I'd like to hear these warnings. That's the first one. The law must take effect five years after Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Such a standard has already been adopted by the Supreme Council in relation to insurance organizations. The other one. The foreign bank’s investment rating should not be below Class A. Third. The regulation of the activities of branches of foreign banks and the accounting of economic standards is carried out according to the size of the subsidiary. Four. The branch office is a tax payer in the country of residence. Fifth. Accordingly, amendments to the laws on the National Bank, the Fund for the Guarantee of Population Investments, the External Economic Activities, and the Code of Masters should be made. So the project can really be based on these proposals. Paragraph 2 of the STO General Agreement provides that the State has the right to take measures to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u7	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u8	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Indeed, we have considered this bill on a financial committee, and there have been more questions as to how it answers. I would have liked to, but yesterday there were hearings on the World Organization's trade issues. I would like to point out that this bill, just like the insurance bill, has been completely unsettled by the legislator. Please tell me, have you seen in this bill the question of the elimination of the branch, the introduction of temporary management, the remedial measures and so on? There's nothing like it here. There is a general reason for the phrase that it falls under the general order of supervision. But the implementation of this general order of oversight is not enshrined in this law. We will soon, Alexander Alexandrovich, discuss a similar law on insurance companies. That law cannot at all be in the form that was submitted to the Supreme Council, adopted even as a basis. Since it does not give the right or the ability of the control authority to exercise any control functions over non-residents. Therefore, it was only for political reasons that the committee determined that we should adopt this law in the first reading. Then radically change it, it's going to be twice as thick as it is right now. And the last thing I'd like to say is, you know, the Timoshenko government and I were personally criticized for dragging the negotiations into the United States. But if you look at the outcome of the signing of the U.S. protocol, where, by the way, we're talking about banks and insurance and insurance, you're going to see that these subscribers on the Ukrainian side who, among other things, are in the hall in us, have given up the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u9	I didn't get it. Are you in favor or against it? Ah, first reading for. I see. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u10	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that one law amends the four laws governing this area of activity. First. It's different. I will be very interested to see how the vote will take place under this law, since there are people in the room who are directly affected by it. And the third thesis I'd like to make right now is the following. Dear colleagues, if the faction of the Company of Ukraine had indeed acted in principle the worse, the better, we would have to vote quietly in favour, and then see how foreign bankers would eat our domestic bankers. And then it would be clear what's going on and who's voting and what's getting the end of this vote. But unfortunately, the destruction of the domestic banking system is just one of the consequences or part of the banking system. This is only one of the consequences of the adoption of this law, and the other is the effect on the economic situation in Ukraine. So I would like to say that the Ukrainian Company, the Communist faction of the Supreme Council, will not vote in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u11	Honorable deputies. Do you mind, or do you mind? Baranov's last speech from the faction, he's entitled. Well, the faction is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, when we fear foreign companies will be present in our market, no matter what area we take, they are practically present in our market. Banking is one of the spheres of economic activity, and it cannot be isolated in general from other spheres. When we say: To allow banks into Ukraine abroad or not? That's how they're supposed to be. Let's take with you how many of our banks have been purchased by foreign banks that are already working on this market. In my opinion, both commentators gave a reasonable argument in favour of adopting this law. That's right. I also support those who criticized the bill. There are, indeed, many inadequacies that are not taken into account, for example, the interests of our banks' protection, not taken into account today, and the interests of protecting our future investors that will go to these banks and much more. Therefore, to our conviction, the factions of socialists, who should be supported in the first reading, perfected and adopted as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Deputies! A brief discussion took place. In fact, it shows that MPs understand the irreversibility of the mutual penetration of banking systems. At the same time, they want to write out warnings that need to be contained in this law in order not to make any mistakes later or to receive mechanisms to influence the activities of banks with foreign capital in Ukraine. Given that the committee unanimously supports this project, and we only vote in the first reading, and for the second reading there is an opportunity to redraft this document, I ask you to support it and put it to a vote. [[16:15:30]] For 394 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on promoting the protection of intellectual property rights when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine]] Registration project 2414. Reported the head of the State Customs Service, Yegorov Aleksandar Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill solves the following major problems. First. This is allowing the customs authorities to act on their own initiative if goods move through the customs border of Ukraine that are sufficiently justified in believing that such movement leads to a violation of intellectual property rights. However, the customs authorities were not given an appropriate application. The other one. If the ownership of the owner's right to the owner of the goods whose customs treatment has been suspended, but the breach of intellectual property rights has not been proven. Under article 53, the customs authorities should have the right to require the applicant to apply for customs clearance to promote the protection of his rights to provide a mortgage or equivalent financial guarantee sufficient to prevent loss of the defendant and the customs authorities, as well as to prevent abuse. In addition, with a view to greater integration in the customs code of Ukraine of the rules and regulations of the TRIPS Agreements in the proposed bill of amendments and additions, the application of the requirements for the prohibition of export from customs territory in the uniform form of goods whose customs forms have been suspended on suspicion of breach of intellectual property rights is being applied. These items will be ordered on the basis of a court decision on the basis of a finding of violation of such rights. In addition, non-application of measures related to the suspension of customs control, customs clearance of goods containing intellectual property rights and moving through Ukraine’s territory through transit, imported into or exported from the customs territory of Ukraine by natural persons for their own use. An important innovation of the bill is the transition from the registration of individual trademarks that contain intellectual property rights to the registration of such objects directly. The project provides that the Ukrainian Civil Service will introduce a customs register of objects of rights based on claims made by owners of copyright, adjacent rights, trademark rights, industrial models, and geographical indications. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u15	Please have a seat. All right, let's go. Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko's report is the head of the Banking Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on October 31, the committee considered the matter. We do. There was hardly any comment on the text of the bill. This is one of the few that could be accepted immediately in the first reading, in the second reading, and in general. But considering that, in fact, a person who crosses state borders and transports a CD, a CD or a laser disc will be at risk of removing these materials and will have a long enough procedure to check for intellectual property there, the committee has decided that, by working on this bill, we would recommend that the Supreme Council accept it only in the first reading, to analyse the identified risks. Along with the Ministry of Economics and the State Customs, it was processed in preparation for the second reading and then recommended for adoption as a whole. Thus, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the first reading and submit the proposal to the Supreme Council plenary. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Previous procedure: two-for, two-again. Write down who wants to make that statement. So far, only those who want to support are enrolled. Please, Moses. After him, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Sukhoma. Yaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u19	I want to tell you that Jaroslav Suhogo is not in the hall and he didn't ask you to pass on that word. When you press a button, talk. Perhaps you have confused the name of one of the neighbors, so please pass it on. If not, then you are deprived of the right to speak. Pecklusenko has the floor, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u20	Hell, the "Regions" faction. You're wrong, Dry is, but he didn't take the word. With regard to a specific law, the law was indeed a framework for improving the work of the Customs Service. We therefore agree with the conclusions and ask for the support of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u21	No one wants to say anything. The project is on your hands. It's also about first reading. To the second reading, according to the conclusions made by the banking committee in the person of Peter Dustenk and essentially the document itself, it needs to be worked out, but in the first reading it needs to be voted on. I'll put it to a vote. Please identify yourself. There's a vote coming. [[16:22:15]] For 383 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights of Origin of Goods is under consideration. First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich, reports. He's got a word for it. There will be a report from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u22	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs! According to Ukrainian legislation, the protection of geographical names for foreign countries takes place under two conditions. Condition number one: When such a foreign country has applied a suitable trade mark protection regime and when there is a bilateral agreement between Ukraine and a foreign country. The changes proposed are to adapt Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of the World Trade Organization and European legislation and to remove the need for a bilateral agreement to protect the relevant geographical names between Ukraine and the relevant foreign State. Thus, under one condition, namely: the decision of the competent authority of a foreign state to protect a geographical name, such a geographical name is taken under the protection of national legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u23	Thank you. Andriy Mikolaiovich Gurgyyy, the first deputy minister of education, is spoken of.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, we need to improve our relationship with regard to the legal protection of geographical indications. That is why we ask for support because it tells us that legal protection is not granted to a qualified designation of the origin of a product related to a geographical location in a foreign State, if the rights to a specified qualified value, or to another that is in its own context. However, it is consistent with the concept of a qualified designation of the origin of the product and is not protected in that State. So they're not protected, and we're not protecting them. The Ministry of Education and Science proposes to support the prescribed Law introduced by the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Science and Education, Paulo Volodymir Ivanovich is the head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education has reviewed both draft laws amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights to Identify the Origin of Goods, which has just been reported by the co-reporters, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine on October 20 and, almost simultaneously, by the Cabinet of Ministers. And I have to say that both bills, draft laws, are practically identical. The only difference, we found on the committee, between these projects, is that the words "this designation" in the amendment to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Law. the goods under the Cabinet of Ministers project have been replaced by the words “so qualified marking” in the President's project. There's some disagreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. That's probably the problem with the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. But since both identical bills and the President's bill had been submitted six days earlier to the Cabinet of Ministers, there is an intrigue that is certain, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. At the same time, it is the Presidential Bill that has still been submitted that this bill is designed not only for the purpose and not so much for the purpose of, in my view, fulfilling Ukraine's commitments to the accession of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization, but primarily for the purpose of bringing or harmonising this law of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the relevant legislative acts of the European Union. And the bill provides that the legal basis will not really be assigned to a qualified designation of the origin of the product associated with the geographical location.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u28	I therefore propose to support the committee's decision and to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u29	Under the summary procedure, determine who wants to support him, who does not want to support him. There's an order of the word, a record of the word. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this word for this bill to mark the sequence of activities of the Communist factions. I mean, if there's a document to protect intellectual property to protect a domestic producer, the Ukrainian Company and its faction in the Supreme Council are voting. In this case, it's about the fact that these changes to the law give us the right to really protect brands of certain, certain trademarks that are in Ukraine. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u31	Thank you. Since the other deputies were not registered, and Peter Stepanovich may have expressed a general opinion on this subject, I have every reason to put this law to a vote on the basis and in general, as proposed by the committee. In that editorial that came from the President, I'm putting it to a vote. [[16:29:16]] For 390 The decision is taken, the law is passed. A draft law amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Publishing Act is under consideration. [[in part bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with World Trade Organization standards]] This project will be reported by the Deputy Head of the State Television and Radio Committee, Shevchenko Vasil Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Publishing Act. Ukraine has committed itself at the legislative level to ensuring access to the service market, as previously agreed in the process of negotiating with member countries of the working group on the application for entry into the World Trade Organization. It is also in line with article 2, which provides for the provision of the most favourable regime for the services or service providers of any other country of a member of the World Trade Organization. The law on publishing, article 25, paragraph 4, prohibits the creation and operation of publishing organizations that have more than 30% of their investment capital in the statutory fund. With a view to fulfilling Ukraine’s stated obligations by the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, appropriate changes have been made to article 25 of the Publishing Act, which provides for the lifting of restrictions on the volume of foreign investment in statutory funds of organizations for distribution of publications. The section “The Final Position of the Bill” provides for a transitional period for the introduction of the bill within five years of Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization. This is done in order to allow a set of measures to be implemented in support of the Ukrainian publishing industry, taking into account today’s situation, to bring about positive changes in the country’s bookkeeping sector, such as the distribution of publishing products. Also, reform the sector, develop and implement standardization and certification of the sector. Make changes to legislation to stimulate the further development of the country’s bookkeeping, which will help bring it out of the crisis. We believe that under the current conditions of foreign investor involvement, there is a positive role in modernizing state-owned polygraph companies, most of which have 90 percent of their core funds. The renovation of the park of polygraph machines will allow for a substantial increase in the output, and the circulation of publications will make domestic publishing more competitive. The adoption of the law in such an order will contribute to the development of a national system of distribution of domestic produce that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u34	As provided by President of Ukraine’s decree of March 21, 2006, No. 243 on certain arrangements for the development of a bookstore in Ukraine. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, he's not in the room right now, he's asked me to hand it over, because yesterday it was discussed on the Committee on Culture and Spirituality and is unanimously supported, and there are requests for you, honourable national deputies, to consider and adopt this law in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u35	Well, let's take the word Yavorowski said so. Please take your seats. The Committee on Culture considered this issue and its conclusions were also positive. Arsen Petrovich, please, Yacenouk has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u36	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! This is not about removing the restrictions on publishing. This is about removing the limit exclusively for the distribution of printed products. And such a restriction will be lifted on the presence of foreign capital only five years after Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. So we're not in any case impacting either the internal polygraph or our respective companies that are distributing printed media. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u37	Anyone who wants to speak for or against it, please sign in. Petruk and Paklusenko. Petruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u38	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u39	Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, our position is that Derteradio here takes an important state position, because this is also about the necessary involvement of a foreign investor in this market, and on the other hand, we have time to prepare for the introduction of this standard within five years. At the same time, I would like to point out that we need to organize the activities of the publishing industry and the work of the publishing institutions not only in connection with our joining the WTO. There are a number of very serious problems that need to be solved immediately. And I wouldn't want us to, with one hand, carry the standards of civilization into this area, create chaos in this market with another hand. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the honourable colleagues that we are on the first reading, we, I mean Parliament, because the opposition voted against it, the budget saw the need for privatization of 22, it seems, of state district printing. And I think we should go back to this subject and say we need to look at what's going on. They're obviously being transferred to utility. Because the city community knows whether it needs a state-owned typography or whether it needs a foreign investor. You can't privatize all the publishing polygraphs with one mach with Kiev. That's why we're offering it. We are voting in favour of this bill. But what we're talking about is that the civilized European standards of activity in the publishing industry and the distribution of the publishing industry should be transferred not only to foreign investment, but generally to the market for the publication of polygraphs and the distribution of polygraphs in other areas of this type of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u41	Mikola Volodymyrovich, the reporter, suggested voting on the basis as a whole. Don't you agree? You agree, yes. Please, because I wanted to take your opinion. Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u42	I'm sorry. The “Regions” faction, Pecklusenko. The philosophy of the adoption of this law is part of the overall concept of the whole package; we have never opposed Ukraine's accession to the WTO. We were against conditions that violated the interests of the domestic producer. What is the advantage of this package? It is that the introduction is dispersed in time and in space. During this time, our domestic producer will be able to inflate his financial muscles and budget. And if the economic sector lacks financial resources by the time it is introduced, it will be supported by the State budget. That law should therefore be supported, as was the case with the previous law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u43	Thank you. Other deputies did not sign up for the discussion, so I have reason to put him to the vote on the basis and in general. I'd like to make a statement. Please, there's a vote. [[16:37:35]] For 375 Decision taken. The draft Law on the State Fund is under consideration. the full procedure for the State Property Fund. National Deputy of Ukraine Ivan Sidorovich Boki reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u44	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. A draft law on the State Property Fund was drafted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine for the purpose of regulating the activities of the Fund. Since the approval of the Supreme Council of the Temporary Status of the State Property Fund, 14 years have passed. The issues under the Fund's jurisdiction have expanded significantly and changed according to the current level of development and the privatisation process strategy as part of state ownership. There was an urgent need to create a legislative framework that would determine the legal basis for the Fund's activities, its status, its functions, its mandate and order of implementation. The bill proposed to you consists of six chapters that define the general situation, ensure the implementation of the Fund's powers, the interaction of the Fund with the authorities, the system of organs and the management of the Fund, the provision of the activities of the Fund's organs and the Ending Position. The most important provisions of the project should include the legal norms that determine the status, tasks, functions, structure and governing bodies of the Fund, as well as the rights and order of the Fund's interaction with the authorities of the State. Thus, article 1 of the draft law establishes that the fund is the central authority of the executive branch with special status and carries out statutory mandates of the owner of State property and implements public policy in the sphere of administration and privatization of state property and performs other tasks and functions defined by law. I would like to point out that the bill clearly defines the constitutional rule on the accountability and control of the fund in the Supreme Council, and the direction and coordination, the subordination of its activities, is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project clearly defines the Fund’s task and regulates its function in the sphere of government and economic policy regarding the administration of public property. The draft law lays down basic provisions regarding the relationship of the Fund with the authorities of the State. For example, the Fund reports annually to the Supreme Council on the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme, reports quarterly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers on the analytical guidance on the course of privatization, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in turn, listens to and approves the Fund's report. Funding and financial and technical support for the Fund is made at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question. The adoption of the Law on the State Property Fund will provide a perfect and strong legislative basis for implementing administrative decisions in the area of property reform. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u45	The question is John Sidorovich? None. Have a seat, please. Chechev Mikhailo Vasilovich of the Committee on Economic Policy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u46	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Today we are looking at a draft law by our colleagues on the Ukrainian State Property Fund. The adoption of a special law on the Fund of State Property is an important issue that is due to the need to regulate the legal basis of the Fund’s activities. Since 92, during all 15 privatization years, the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund have been regulated by a temporary provision on the State Property Fund, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 7 July 1992, which has in fact lost its relevance and does not solve all the issues and problems facing the Fund and its regional offices today. To date, the functions and powers of the State Property Fund are partly reflected in a large number of laws, such as the privatization of state property, the provision of property rights and the rental of state property. But no law comprehensively and comprehensively determines the status of the Fund of State Property, Storage and Responsibilities, and Responsibilities. And the absence of such a law greatly complicates the work of the Fund and its departments, preventing them from effectively influencing processes in the area of privatization and management of state property. Since 1997, both the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine have made repeated attempts to regulate the activities of the State Property Fund. The drafts on this issue were considered by the three previous compositions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adopted laws on the Fund were repeatedly promised by the President of Ukraine. The bill, which is proposed today for consideration, is prepared to take account of the requirements of constitutional reform and the laws of Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is to clearly define the legal principles of the activities of the State Property Fund, its status, functions, powers and order of implementation. The Draft Law on the State Property Fund has been recognized as the central authority of the executive branch with special status, in line with the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on changes in the structure of the central executive branch. The head of the fund is pointing. The head of the fund manages the fund, directs its activities according to the strategy and ideology of the current-stage property reform course and is responsible for carrying out the tasks and functions entrusted to the fund. With a view to agreeing on issues related to the Fund’s competence, discussion and decision-making of the most important activities, there are rules on the establishment of a foundation college, including the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Heads of Central Executives, the Head of the Property Fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Chiefs of Regional Branches and its Representations. In the process of carrying out the mandate fund and carrying out the functions, the bill provides for the rules of interaction of the Fund with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, the Government of Ukraine, the central executive authorities. The adoption of the State Property Fund Act will create a legislative framework for the definition of legal mechanisms to function as a foundation for the protection of the State's property rights and the composition of the powers required to do so, and will contribute to the improvement of public policy in the area of property reform. The adoption of the law will encourage the head of the fund and its employees to do all they can to address the complex and important task of finding an effective owner in a privatised enterprise and ensuring full revenue from privatization required by the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Economic Policy proposes the draft Law on the State Property Fund, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the Associate, to be adopted on the basis of some principled observations, which must be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. First remark. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 should read as follows: “The Fund is accountable and supervised by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the administration of state property”. Second remark. Article 10, paragraph 3, complements the possibility of releasing the head of the fund in the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not approve a report on the activities of the Fund and the violation of the anti-corruption legislation, as well as the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the event of a gross violation of the head of the service fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u47	Is there a question for Mikhail Vasilovich? Please sign up. Five minutes. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Deputy Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u49	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u50	Thank you. I have a question for you. Obviously, it is properly defined that a fund is needed to be controlled by the Supreme Council and the government. But how, what control mechanism? This should be written down, or whatever imagination we have to have, how this will be accomplished.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u51	Thank you for asking. The bill itself clearly states that the fund will quarterly report on its activities, and the Fund’s head reports annually on the implementation of the privatization programme and reports to the Supreme Council. With regard to these matters of government subordination, this is clearly stated in the Constitution, where government governs government property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u52	Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u53	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Small, socialist factions. Mikhail Vasilovich, as a person who is well educated in this matter, please tell us what the fate of the State Property Fund is. Well, we're going to assume that it's going to get to some limit and that all that's relevant to government property is going to be sold at a good price, and then there's going to be some left over. Then we need to change the law again. And is it possible that the fund exists and the fund not only does it sells the property, but it does business, if one of the owners doesn't live up to its expectations and our expectations, then it does so by returning it to state property, once again the state begins to rule? Is this a legal possibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u54	In fact, the fund, not only does it privatize state property, but it does it manages corporate rights and leases, and create companies, and investigate how an investor fulfills its investment commitments, restructures enterprises, and so on, that is, different directions of work. And this is the direction of the work, the mandate of the fund is just written in this bill. I want to say that when a new privatization program was being prepared, the future of the fund would be determined. In fact, we're going to get to the limit where we're going to stay in particular areas, maybe where 5 is, where 10 percent is, where 15 percent of government property is. And then, they say, a large-scale, socio-economic property reform project that started in the early 1990s, it's going to be completed, it's going to be risk-based, but property relations, they're going to remain as many professionals as in the fund, there's no concentrated group of professionals, there's no department in that direction. That's why it was supposed to transform the fund, transform it into a Ministry of Property that would be directly involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u55	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u56	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I apologize to you and my colleague Suhim for giving the word without his request, and now I ask you to give the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u57	Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear reporter, the previous edition of the State Property Fund Act was dedicated and then cancelled for a very simple reason. One of the main disadvantages was that the foundation was empowered to exercise the authority of the owner of the state property. The bill you are proposing also suffers from this mistake. And you didn't say that in principle. Please tell me, how do you imagine following the Law, which contains an unconstitutional norm? After all, under the Constitution, the ownership of the property is exercised by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. Today we accept conceptually in the first reading. I think in the process of processing for second reading all of these inadequacies and in relation to non-constitutionality. They will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u60	Yuri Bogdanovich, maybe I'm wrong, but I think the Cabinet of Ministers' Constitution has a function of management, not owner. Please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u61	Honorable reporter, no doubt the law is needed, since this requirement is constitutional, part 2 of article 129, that public authorities and officials are obliged to act in a manner and within the framework provided for by law and the Constitution. Note, only by law. At the same time, please tell me, have you analyzed the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that have come to the draft of this law, and what is the assessment and purpose of the committee to take these observations into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u62	In fact, we always take into account the opinion of the Scientific Administration. There, indeed, are experts who say that the highest species work. And I think everyone needs to listen to the scientific-expert thinking. And in my remarks, I've just touched on those two observations that were made by the Scientific and Expert Administration in part of the fact that the State Property Fund should be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on matters of government property management. And remarks regarding the release of the head of the fund in the event of non-approval by the Supreme Council of the report on the Fund's activities and the violation of the anti-corruption legislation and the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the event of a gross violation by the head of the service fund. This is taken completely from the conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration. I thank the Scientific and Expert Office for its professional conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u63	Thank you, too, sit down, please. I'm still quoting the 16th article of the Constitution regarding the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers. Paragraph 5 states: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensures equal conditions for all forms of ownership of the administration of public property in accordance with the law.” Now please sign up for factions if you want to make a statement. From factions. And sign up from the deputies. More to the point, just the MPs who want to speak up on their own. Thank you. A total of nine men. The committee offers 15 minutes. The committee's offering. Let's invest at this time. Bondarchuk has a word from the Socialist faction. Please. Behind him is Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u64	Dear colleagues. Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Our faction will vote in favour of this bill. There is no particular need to convince those present that the status of the holding fund, including the heads of the fund, needs to be regulated in the legal sense. So that he may not be on short notice or in role, as it were, puppets and so forth. The rights, duties, functions, authority, and order of execution must be clearly defined. I'll point out that there's a seventh attempt to pass the law. And seven is a happy number. So let us expect the ice to break, and the law will be adopted in the first reading today. Today it was also considered by the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization at its meeting. And the members of the commission voted to propose to the session of the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the first reading. Some suggestions, recommendations, comments, and so forth were made. As for the settlement of possible conflicts between this law and the Cabinet of Ministers bills, and this was one of the points, if one of the points were to be made, it would be possible to do this between the first and the second readings. Moreover, the draft laws on the Cabinet of Ministers will be considered prime, and we will be able to reconcile all the points that relate to the interaction or relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund of Ukraine. So I ask once again on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u65	It's from the "Julia Timoshenko" faction. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u66	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our faction has decided not to vote for this bill because it is anti-constitutional. In particular, the bill proposes that the fund loses its direct subordination to the Cabinet of Ministers and its activities are directed and coordinated. However, part one of article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the Cabinet of Ministers is a higher body in the system of executives, and part five of article 116 of the Constitution determines that the Cabinet of Ministers administers public property in accordance with the law. Therefore, the State Property Fund designated by the bill as the central executive body with special status should be, like other central executives, subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers, including accountability and control. Part one of the first article of the first bill proposes that the State Property Fund implements the statutory mandate of the owner of state property and implements the State policy in the sphere of government and privatization of state property and performs other tasks and functions defined by the law. However, according to the same 116th article of the Constitution, the administration of public property objects relies solely on the Cabinet of Ministers. The main function of the fund, according to its name, is to pursue public policy in the area of privatization of state property. However, article 2, 4, 8 of the bill grants the number of tasks, functions, and rights that go far beyond the limits and in effect transforms it into an all - authority monster that duplicates not only the Cabinet but also many ministries. This will inevitably lead to a conflict between the foundation and other central executive authorities. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, believes that the Socialist Party faction wants to privatize the privatization process in Ukraine. This is evidenced in particular by the fact that the bill does not provide grounds for the release of the head of the fund in connection with the improper performance of his duties. There is no such intrusiveness and there is not one of the leaders of the central executive authorities, including the Prime Minister. So it also makes a calculation to provide a prerequisite for the acquisition of the surplus of state property that has not yet been controlled by the oligarchs and to create opportunities for reprivatization and further seizure of those enterprises that attract the interests of the social elite. Moreover, I no longer say that 30 percent of the fund’s employees are asked to pay more than other government officials, to extend them the act of State Protection Act to court officials and law enforcement agencies. All these things are very questionable and unfounded. Therefore, we suggest rejecting the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u67	I thank Oleg Lazko. Because maybe some of the deputies didn't read the royal note, so he read it from the rostrum. It's useful anyway who hasn't met this document. Please have the word Dry from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support Alexander Alexandrovich's remarks. Well, it wouldn't be bad in principle if the person who goes out to this rostrum, at least, either worked on himself or had a subject, or understood what he was talking about. Since 92, the State Property Fund has been operating on a temporary basis. Is that okay? It's not normal. What is the point of listing the articles of the Constitution, laws and other things, and what else? Let's quote the Talmud. The point is that we are simply obliged in this session hall at the end of the day to normalize the activities of the State Property Fund as the central executive body. Of course, it's a special status. And remember how many laws we have that the Antimonopoly Committee, Customs Committee, other services are working on? Why would the State Property Fund be so incomprehensible, I would say, a disrespectful attitude? What's more, now that we're only opening up activities to implement political reform, dear colleagues, remember, we're becoming a parliamentary-presidential republic. And it's us now, all of us here that we're going to reject. And we're rejecting responsibility. We're running away from this responsibility. But now we have all the responsibility to adopt this bill in new historical conditions under the operation of the State Property Fund. It's here in this session room that we have to look at all the projects, all the investment programs and approve them, because that's our responsibility, because the Constitution is so spelled out that we form a coalition, form a government and take responsibility for the people of Ukraine. How many investment scandals. How many nonsensees around reprisals. It was wrong to privatize, that's right. Listen, who's going to be able to put an insult on the raid today? There's a court in the middle, two stockholders with one share, and there's a problem for a big business. I know this in the practice of my own company, Motor Sich. Five shares in the decision - making process and the court decides: to commit the Maintenance Fund, to convene a commission that was six years ago, and four members of the committee have long died. Is that okay? So we have to put the State Property Fund in order. There will be other functions in the State Property Fund. This is the treasure of what we have. The Ukraine faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u69	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please, from “Our Ukraine” position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u70	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies. The “Our Ukraine” faction supports this law in the first reading, given the importance of regulating the activities of such an important state body, which, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, on behalf of Parliament, including managing privatization processes and, in fact, disposing of state ownership. At the same time, we would like to warn those who have drafted a bill and a professional committee that the law is not sufficiently worked out and needs further development. Some of the shortcomings and shortcomings of this law have already been addressed today, and I may be able to supplement some of them. First, though it may be technical. The bill deals with such concepts as the rights of the fund. It should be borne in mind that when we talk about public authorities, the concept of “authorisation of an organ” is used in standard-setting technology. And this has to be played. It is worth noting that when the bill refers, in particular, to the authorization of organs, heads, and other officials, there is no authority to issue the foundation’s orderly acts. There is a mandate for the issuance of normative acts, legal and regulatory acts that extend to an indefinite number of persons, and are subject to state registration. Take a look at the orderly acts, and your trustees in the trust fund as a whole are missing. Dear colleagues! At the same time, I'd like to point out things that should still be reproduced when the bill is being drafted in the second reading when it comes to possibilities and reasons for the release of the head. I am absolutely convinced that today's head is not to be concerned about this, it is working in good faith, but we are adopting a law that is to be applied equally to all other possible offenders, and we still have to provide in law a basis for dismissal in connection with the improper performance of the head of the fund. And we need to think about what this form should be like in order to damage the head from subjectivity, but at the same time, we need to assume a situation where, for some reason or another, head functions may not be effective. Dear colleagues! It also draws attention to the fact that the section of the Act, which refers to the conditions of payment of work and of technical and material security, states that the salaries of the employees of the Fund, which are civil servants, are also being implemented, I pay attention, in addition, to the costs of the State Budget Special Fund, which comes from privatization. In general, it is only natural that we have to take into account the possibility of payment, but the criteria and limits of such a payment are unfortunately not established by law. Maybe it's worth it in the State Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u71	Thank you. The factions have spoken to anyone who wanted to. He signed up and wants to express himself. Please. Yuri Grigorovich. Oh, you're handing it over? Please pass the word to Anatoly Alexander the Bugaic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u72	Anatoly Bugaec, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished deputies! As the recent Director-General of one of the strategic enterprises that determines the economic security and national security of the State, I had to work with the State Property Fund from the first steps of privatization. There are many former and current Presidents of the State Property Fund. And it is surprising to note, of course, that the State Property Fund is practically living without its basic document and is working on the basis of the provisional State Property Fund provision of 92 years. Can we work today, when everything is practically privatized and in many cases “accepted”, we are merely discussing the need to adopt a law on the principal structure of a State that must manage public property. I think that today there are too many issues that have to do with, for example, the management of public action packages, where different structures, sectoral ministries, committees and individuals can manage large public action packages owned by the State. In this part, I believe and believe that only the State Property Fund can manage and hold a public stock package, especially large strategic enterprises, such as our Turboat. I believe that the law passed today for Parliament's debate must be adopted on first reading immediately. Better late than never, they say, but to create a document, to create a law that would allow the State Property Fund to work, not in separate temporary regulations, but legally on the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u73	Thank you. We have exhausted the rules set out to discuss the matter. And I want to say two words literally. If we have managed state property for 14 years under a temporary scheme, we have the result that today is a world - wide wonder and society. And I'm surprised to see the proposal of individual deputies not to adopt this law today, referring to the fact that authority is great, that wages seem to increase. In all the government structures in the central government, the lowest wage is paid by the employees of the State Property Fund, among other things. That's what you need to know. In addition, the fund is just beginning to take on the functions of those required by the State. A register of all enterprises has been made, and the income of government property, dividend income in the sale of property, has to be given functions, rights, authority and responsibility to the committee itself. I'm convinced that some clarifications should be made on the second reading, but now we need to vote on the law in the first reading and allow the foundation to work on the basis of the law. I'm betting on the vote on this project and I'm asking you to support it. In the first reading. In the first reading, the basis. [[17:10:57]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 184, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 62, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, “Afterfractional” – 4. By the way, I will take advantage of my obligation to make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Leszczenk Viktor Mikolajovic into the membership of the “Our Ukraine” MP. A draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is under consideration. [[on increasing the number of mandatory services]] Chukmasov has Sergey Alexanderovich, the initiator.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich! I have a request for both you and the chairman. Since this law has recently produced such a wide variety of interpretations, I have requested that this law be reviewed for a week after committee work, in order to further consider some aspects of this law with the public and with operators working in the field of communication. This is also true of Bill 2296, which goes on with us. I also ask for a week to finalize these bills so that they can be put into the hall and a positive decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u75	I'm proposing a transfer to the next plenary week of these two bills. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u76	There's only one that needs to be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u77	Let's turn it on. [[17:13:10]] For 372 Thank you. 372 – voted in favour. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, the draft Decree on the Celebration of the Century since the publication of the magazine “Ukraine” – the first public and political literary and artistic journal of Ukraine. And so is the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is that a separate question? Then please, I'm putting to the vote this inclusion and decision-making project. Please support. [[17:14:05]] For 386 We've included this question, we can consider it. There's a committee proposal: a simplified procedure. So I suggest: by the simplified procedure, vote, please, in short, I didn't put it right, in short, in favour. [[17:14:33]] For 395 Hara, please, Vasil Grigorovich, he's asking for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u78	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. We have a request from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour to transpose Bill 2385 on Children's New Day's Gifts into this section. We from the committee, Alexander Alexandrovich, in your name yesterday, have addressed him in writing, asking him also in this section to consider and decide to postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u79	No, it's not. So we're going to go up to him and we're going to figure this out. Let's go up to him and vote on that question. Well, please. We have already voted on a specific issue. Let's finish it and get to the next one. Olga Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u80	I'll put it on. I'm going to ask you again: I'm going to ask you now, after I've considered this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u81	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable colleagues. I propose to you the draft Decree on the Celebration of the Century since the publication of Ukraine, the first socio-political literary and artistic journal in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a tough time when we don't actually have anything permanent, when things change, when we don't have traditions, we don't have anything. We have the same kind of good news for everyone, because it's a good thing that belongs to all of us for 100 years, which camps we don't belong to. All those present in this room are familiar with this magazine and so are their parents. I wanted to say that this is also a unique phenomenon in the media, because magazines, magazines, newspapers, newspapers, channels disappear, appear again, and nothing remains for a long time. And the unique biography of this edition itself was set up in December 1907 by Gruszewski, an outstanding statesman, as a journal of democratically configured intelligence. Unfortunately, in the 1930s, he had to stop his exit. But when the Great Homeland War began, it was that magazine that was very important to Ukraine, to our Fatherland. And that is when he restored his way out, and until the time of restoration, he had a tremendous success. For those who understand, 900,000 copies are a shocking, almost unattainable circulation for such a release plan. Sadly, when Ukraine gained independence, this does not sound paradoxical, but this magazine had to stop its output, even reaching the point where it did not come out once a year in 1997. Such a difficult turn did not stop the winning team.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u82	Olga Volodymyrna, 10 seconds, and finish. It's like on TV. You know, there's a time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u83	In fact, this draft decree supported our Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, as well as the Committee on Spirituality and Cultural Affairs. And I sincerely ask you to support also our proposal to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to celebrate the 100-year anniversary of this glorious edition and to throw a celebration for our readers and for ourselves, and to continue with the same tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u84	Thank you. No questions asked, I see. Have a seat, please. Ah, it's a reduced procedure. I'm sorry. Sit down, sit down. Are they willing to express themselves? There are no willing speakers. Then I put to the vote the draft decree that you have before your eyes to mark the 100th anniversary of the creation of Ukraine. In general. [[17:19:02]] For 408 Thank you for the good reliable information. Please. We need to consider the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft Supreme Council declaration on solidarity, the UN General Assembly resolution on the Republic of Cuba. What, what? He's asking Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u85	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, this question needs to be considered and accepted. But in view of the fact that the statement was given just a few minutes ago, the request to vote for inclusion in the agenda and the vote itself was made tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u86	I actually made a proposal for inclusion and decision-making. But there's a second offer. If there's not enough votes for this procedure, we'll vote tomorrow. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion and decision-making, and then on your proposal. Please. [[17:20:42]] For-140. There are no votes. Then I ask the question of just getting into the order of the day. Please. And tomorrow morning we'll vote. Please. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:21:04]] For 339 Decision taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Law on Banking and Banking, on the inclusion and adoption of decisions on this subject. [[on the Supervisory Board]] I'll bet you a vote. [[17:21:37]] For 265 This question is being considered. A member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Cluj Petrovich, reports. Deputy Gorbal will report. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u87	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! You may recall that last week he was a reporter for the Supreme Council’s decision, a draft Supreme Council ruling on the rotations of members of the supervisory boards of state banks. This decision sparked a certain vigour in the hall, as well as a certain discussion about the review of the criteria for the selection of candidates for membership in the supervision of the boards of state banks. Accordingly, we have agreed that we will consider the draft amendments to Article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, which actually regulates the selection procedure and procedure for the selection of candidates for supervisory boards of state banks. Two bills were submitted accordingly. One by Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, second by Peter Mikolayovich Simonnka, who was then united into a compromise bill, which was actually considered by the committee and was supported by most of the votes. I want to tell you what was actually changed in this bill. More significantly elevated criteria for candidates recommended to the supervisory boards of state banks are proposed and a new approach is proposed for the allocation of people to the supervisory boards of state banks. It is now proposed that, if previously proposed, article seven defined this approach, seven proposed by the President of Ukraine, seven proposed by the Supreme Council. Accordingly, it is proposed that five men offer the Supreme Council, five men offer the Cabinet of Ministers, and five men offer the President of Ukraine. There have also been a number of comments on the procedure that the members of the committee have expressed, as well as on the main scientific and expert management with which the members of the committee have agreed, on the proposals for a procedure for appointment by the President of Ukraine and proposed to withdraw this paragraph, namely: “Proposals for a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank shall be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank, appropriate advisory bodies to ensure the work of the President of Ukraine. During the processing of proposals at the request of the President of Ukraine, a special examination of the candidates for the positions of the Supervisory Board, the State Bank, and the interview with the candidates is carried out. A draft decree shall be prepared for the processing of proposals in accordance with the procedure laid down by the President of Ukraine and the results of the report shall be prepared.” In view of the fact that this rule requires constitutional and legal justification, it was recommended that this rule be repealed. So actually, no more comments were made on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u88	Thank you. What are the suggestions of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u89	The committee by majority supports the changes to article seven and suggests that it be accepted in the first reading. And I also think that if you don't have any comments, you can take them as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u90	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign in. Yes, please give me five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u91	Jaroslav Suchy, “Regions”, Zaporozhye. Please state the changes you have been talking about, in particular in article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, the explanatory note is that these changes do not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. Would it be possible for our radio listeners, for those who listen to or watch our discussion of the bills, to say that we can talk about how such changes, or changes to the quality of the candidates for the supervisory boards, will contribute to improving the economic situation of those banks or others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u92	You know, we had a lively discussion on the committee today about the effectiveness of the supervisory board. One of our colleagues, a well - known national deputy, explained that he attended the supervisory board of the respective state bank once a year. We hope that the supervisory boards will work more effectively and will control the work of state banks more effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u93	Please, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u94	Anton Ruzicki Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction of “our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u95	Anatoly Matvienko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u96	UPR “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block, Anatoly Matvienko. I'd like to go to the reporter with an explanation. It is not clear that the craftsmanship you offer means that these banks need to be placed under government. Because most of it is a coalition that makes decisions, it forms a government, and that's how you create a monopoly. So let me help you not to be so cynical, let's offer one more piece -- it's a coalition to give roughly equal numbers of candidates, and then monopolization will be absolute. Because I don't see any other purpose in your suggestions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u97	You know, I personally agree with you that the supervisory boards of the relevant state banks should be formed solely by the government. Such a standard is practical in all civilized countries and we have, if you remember the procedure, where it came from. In fact, with the help of the Supreme Council, it was suggested that the Supreme Council should also intervene in the process of forming supervisory boards of state banks. Sadly, nothing good has been done to improve the effectiveness of oversight counseling. But that's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u98	We were just talking about the government administration that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing. Is this a state form of property? State. So there's absolutely nothing going on here. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, the Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I probably won't ask questions, I just want to thank the two authors and Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko and Alexander Alexander Moroz for finding the opportunity to make such changes that are more appropriate to the stage that Ukraine is in, that is, the transition from the Presidential to the parliamentary-presidential republic. I think it's a logical step and it's on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u100	Please, Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u101	Dear reporter! Tell me, in addition to the motives that you have already mentioned, from your point of view, the current order of appointment of members of the Supervisory Board by which it has demonstrated its inefficiency, which has led to the need to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u102	As previously noted, it was indeed suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers should also be able to submit candidates once. And accordingly, there is a quota for the Supreme Council to also send representatives with the participation of the Banking Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u103	I'll give you the answer to that question. There was an appeal by the President of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Council, and it was Alexander Alexandrovich who put his bill on the proposal of the President. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u104	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to my colleague Laško Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u105	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u106	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter! You confirm what Adam Ivanovich said, that the President's proposal is to reduce the number of members of the observation boards that he has the right to submit, and that it is at the President's suggestion that the bill provides that even his candidatures are offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, and that, at the President's proposal, the so-called anti-crisis coalition will bring state banks to bear, which will then allow them to freely use the funds that are there with the dire consequences. Do you support all of this or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u107	I'll tell Mr. Oleg that I'm not investigating the President's proposal, but thank you for taking the floor this time, you're not asking people to take the money out of state banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u108	It's growing. It's growing. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I think that, of course, this is a perfectly correct idea because of the oversight boards to involve professional people who, by virtue of their specific lives in our country, would not think about how to make money through these banks for themselves. And I'm absolutely convinced that if the Cabinet of Ministers or the President were to serve purely professional people, not friends, relatives, or anyone else, we would get along. At the same time, my warnings are confirmed by the fact that at the same time we were still being offered offers to replace vacancies in two state-owned equity banks. If you want to look, here is either the members of the Party of Regions, or the assistants of the National Deputies, or the random people who work in the fraternal banks of those co-reporters here, and here I have a question: We write something so honest and principled in the law, and we give the same information that was given earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u110	So let me tell you, in this project, the criteria for candidates are rising. In this connection, the five candidates in the previous decision were calculated because they did not meet the new criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Yes, now who, regardless of their faction, wants to act? Yeah, well, Easy's signed up twice. So, five, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's only written down once. Yes, please, 15 minutes. Easy. Get ready for Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u112	The main entry was the “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” so you will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, I think this is a really serious issue because the National Bank and its effective work are ensuring stability, financial stability, economic stability and, accordingly, social stability. At the same time, we find that the proposals that came from our colleagues in the factions of the region, by Alexander Moroz, who signed the law, are based solely on people who are not just naive, right? – which should not understand at all, i.e. the proposal instead of a parity appointment to the Nutzbank council to appoint from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Supreme Council and from the President it is the same thing as proposing instead of the President he still has the right to appoint an anti-crisis coalition. Then the Supreme Council most, the Cabinet of Ministers most, the anti-crisis coalition most, and then what are we talking about? I want to make your point that it's not about another bank's garbage. And by the way, we have very sad prospects from your proposal when we read the first proposal that we got, which concerns Ukreximbank and other state banks, where -- look -- either the Party of Regions, or someone else of your associates or trusted persons. It's not normal, dear fellows! That's it. When we talk about these banks, it's the board of observation, and in this case the board of supervisors, and it's based on what people of different political powers control, so that there's no abuse, that there's an exclusive policy in the interests of our state, of all our citizens, regardless of their political sympathies and antipathies. And that's why, dear colleagues, we think that not only do we need to leave the old principle of formation, the parity formation of the National Bank, but we need to confirm clearly how there has always been in the Supreme Council of the past when it forms a proportional number of factions, not an anti-crisis coalition or a crisis coalition, but proportionally the number of factions is formed by such councils as the National Bank and other state banks. And only this can be a guarantee that there will be no abuse, that there will be no, sorry, banal derivatives of these banks, and that, in fact, our financial system will work in a stable way, will work effectively. And that's why, honourable colleagues, we will never support such bills that can actually be a factor in destabilizing Ukraine's financial system. And this can lead to catastrophic consequences. Please reject this bill and do not go back to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u114	Please, from “Our Ukraine, ” Argentina. Prepare Lukyanchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u115	I'm going to start with the President's Memorandum, because the chairman said that it was by coming out of the President's Memorandum that Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz made this proposal. It was, indeed, yes. And the first version of the Alexander Alexandrovich bill really took the basic standards of the Memorandum, the President's Memorandum project. But the second bill that we're looking at right now, it's fundamentally different, and it's making things worse, of course. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to remind everyone that as a result of the political reform, there have been changes in the configuration of executive power, and to create three bank management centers today is, in my opinion, simply illogical and does not even come out of this configuration. Now essentially the bill. The project proposes a complex procedure for appointing members of the Board on the President's quota. And I would like to point out that this has no constitutional or legal basis. You know better than me that the President's rights and duties are determined by the Constitution, not in this way. Let me give you a few examples. This bill, for example, states that the Cabinet of Ministers appoints five members to the council by making a decision -- and a dot. With regard to the President's quota, there's a full-page procedure. It is also questionable that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to submit its proposals — that is, to appoint its five — and to make further proposals to the President. I think it looks a little out of line. I would like to point out once again that the proposal of Alexander Alexandrovich was made in the first version of the requirement for candidates, especially for experience, a corresponding job experience of at least five years. It was, indeed, a government proposal. But unfortunately, Alexander Aleksandrovitch changed the norm and even proposed that it was not 7 and 7, but 5, 5 and 5. I don't think we need to comment on what this is about. So I would like to point out that these violations, the direct violations of the Constitution and of the President's rights are also presented in an expert opinion. So I am convinced that the fate of this bill is a veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u116	Yes, please, it's been a while since we heard Oleg's light. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I want to ask more Ukrainian citizens to understand what bill we are looking at by Communist Simonek and Socialist Frost. Strangely enough, there are no members of the Party of Regions. They are obviously smarter, for similar laws do not consider it necessary to sign so that they do not shed light on the real nature of their activities. But actually, that's what they're behind. What is the situation today? According to article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, to which it is proposed to amend, 7 members of the Supervisory Board of State Banks, Exim Bank, are appointed by the President, 7 by the Supreme Council. The drafters suggest that 5 people be appointed by the President, 5 by the Supreme Council, and 5 by the Cabinet of Ministers. Yes, it is also suggested that the five men appointed by the President make proposals for the appointment of these persons to the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, the 5th of Kabmin, the 5th that they run through the President and the 5th that they run from the Supreme Council through the coalition. And all 15 of them are from the so-called crisis coalition, which is more simply the Donetsks. Why the Donetsks? And because there is another bill that has just been passed by Gorbal, who has already proposed, is in such a hurry, this bill has not yet been considered. He is in a hurry to appoint members of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, New York, U.S.A. And who are we seeing here again? Again, the people who work at the Gorbala Bank, to which he is involved, the “Krugazbank”. Again, people who are part of the company of those people who are sitting in this room. So when you, Mr. Gorbal, say you thank me for not calling for money. Yes, I do not call for this money to be taken from Savings and Eximbank today when there are normal observation boards. But if there are people assigned there that you're stretching out, I would recommend that Ukrainian citizens think very well about whether it's worth keeping money there, because I suspect that if we adopt similar bills, these state banks can happen to the fate of the Bank of Ukraine. And whoever was involved in his destruction is no mystery to anyone. So I call on the MPs, especially the Communists, who always stand up for the rights of the working people, not to vote for this bill. For the moratorium, you didn't vote in favour of your bill on the introduction of a moratorium on housing services. They canceled. Even today, show flexibility and principle in the interests of the working people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u118	Thank you, Oleg. I urge you to transfer my funds to the Gorbal Bank. Tomenko, please. He's got Belarus on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! The bill and the topic, which is now raised, is really, really important because it's about how to make the system of state banks so that no one in the session room has the question that that money is not going anywhere, or that it's not being used for the purposes and interests of society. And here, we understand, there can only be two principles in the system of supervisory or expert councils: one principle: professionalism, another principle: competitiveness. The principle of professionalism, which the authors are aspiring to, as if theoretically or hypothetically correct, but I am absolutely convinced that unfortunately it is not working in our own country. And my colleagues who have been doing this, looking at the practical appendix to these supervisory councils, have successfully demonstrated it. They analyzed the list of candidates and biographies, and it became clear from here that the principle of professionalism was obviously completely inappropriate here, because every political power was, they said, we had our own people to make sure that this policy was being implemented. So, to my deep conviction, the right optimal approach must be to maintain a competitive approach. What does that mean? This means that the Supervisory Board must have representatives of the power structures and, of course, in this case, factions that will form a competitive environment that will not allow monopolizing the influence of one political force, allowing some senseless operation. So how can you do that? If you agree with the idea of the authors that this is, for example, three institutions are delegated -- the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers -- it is only in the Supreme Council that this element of competition is possible. This can be done in two ways. Or the Supreme Council will delegate the principle of proportionality. For example, the number of these five representatives will be adequate for the number of representatives and for the fractional representation of the Supreme Council. Or, as we are today at a working group meeting on the issue of the opposition law in Ukraine, we are talking about certain guarantees of opposition activity, and there will be preferences such as one or two representing opposition. In any case, the general rule is that it's five people from different structures of power that could be in theory belonging to one party at all. Let's say that in the next presidential election, the representative of the “X” party will form a coalition, and it will come from Kabmin, the President, the Supreme Council to propose a representative of one political party, which is that we are not now adopting the law, we are now adopting it in the future. So I am absolutely convinced that the professional principle of forming the supervisory board that is proposed here is not in time. We need to establish a competitive principle, and only then will we be guaranteed against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u120	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u121	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The banking industry in Ukraine had just begun its development. The state sector of this industry is an extremely important sector. It is enough to say that in the world’s most powerful economic powers, the banking industry plays the very role of the mechanisms and the roughest, and the most subtle, adjustment to Ukraine’s economic development. When it comes to supporting banking monetary trade, we cannot fail to note that, like ten years ago, as well as 15 years ago, this activity remains unsatisfactory. Isn't it a fact that the level of monetaryization of economic development, economic turnover, is finally low. If in the United States, Japan, Great Britain, France, and other major countries, for each of them, there are more gross domestic product than there are, for each unit of gross product, more than one national currency, we have far and wide. Our state banks are not yet fully engaged in lending and stimulating economic development. Of course, the efficiency of the management of all banks, starting with the National, is not to be overlooked today. Long ago it was time for the Supreme Council to ask, and how these supervisory councils function, and what the results of their activities, and where the National Bank's profits go, and where the profits of other state banks go, and why they always need budgetary support, a good composition, requires that we send the most experienced, responsible ones. And if they direct a person who has not yet had a professional experience but is a political queue or a representative, the trouble of such a bank and the misery of our state. That's why I'm here to support those who defend the principle of a strictly proportional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u122	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. In view of what was here in the course of the discussion of comments, some comments to the law, the profile committee asked me to inform you that the profile committee agrees with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and he proposes that proposals from the scientific and expert board be made that proposals for candidates for a term of office of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank be submitted by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank, the relevant advisory bodies providing the work of the President of Ukraine. During the processing of proposals at the request of the President of Ukraine, a special examination of the candidates for positions of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank and the interview with the candidates is carried out. The processing of proposals is reported to the President of Ukraine, and a draft corresponding decree by the President of Ukraine is being prepared as a result of the report. Part eleven. It makes a note of our expertise that it needs constitutional and legal justification, and that's why the committee agrees to remove this position from the draft law. The same committee agrees with the observation made by the expert board regarding the deletion from the text of the law of the provision that the question of the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank is being considered by the Supreme Council on the procedure laid down by the Rules of the Supreme Council. Clearly, it is a constitutional norm that all matters considered in the Supreme Council are dealt with in accordance with the Rules. This is the norm of the Constitution. I mean, with all the comments that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has made to this bill, the Profile Committee agrees with it and proposes to delete it. In this regard, I think we can put in place a general approach to the adoption of this law. I am voting on the adoption of the Amendment Act to Article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, taking into account the proposals of the Science and Export Authority that I have been talking about. [[on the Supervisory Board]] Please vote. [[17:51:21]] For 245 The law is passed, but it is clear what his fate is. Dear colleagues, I remind you, the transcript of the meeting on October 19th when we discussed with you the draft decree number 2352 concerning the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards. Then the chairman, who presided over Alexander Aleksandrovitch, said that since certain discussions had arisen, after the adoption of the law, I ask you to support the proposal that the vote on this decision should be discussed then, but that the vote should be postponed after the adoption of the law. At 12 o’clock 53 minutes, October 19th, 375 national deputies supported the proposal. So now you and I have to vote in favour of Decree 2352 and with the changes and additions that are already coming with the changes and additions that are already coming out of the adopted law. I'll put it to a vote. I repeat, dear colleagues, we have only one vote left. We discussed it. Who is in favour of including draft Decree 2352 in the agenda, please vote. [[17:53:00]] For 240 It's on. Dear colleagues! So I'm asking Gorbal, please, what changes have been made to that draft decision that we discussed. And then we're going to have Easy and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u123	Accordingly, five names that have been considered by the profile committee today have been proscribed in the ruling and voted. So the following names are removed from the decree: Melniczuk, Nedashkovsky, is, as I recall, at the request of Oleg Laska, Sporov and Fedorenko. New names were included: Borduhov, Rybak, Burakovsky, Kocherga, and Kravec. Today, these candidates were invited to the committee, and the committee supported these names. You see, in a seven-man resolution as well as we don't know about the fate of the previous law, the amendments to article 7, so the committee proposed to accept until the old edition of article 7 by seven and then to wait for the fate of the newly voted changes to article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act. And the request not to confuse the supervision of the National Bank and state banks, because some of the representatives of the BUT faction are unfortunately confused. Article 7 on banks and banking regulates the formation of only state banks, not the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I would like to emphasize once again, dear colleagues. On October 19, we had a full discussion, and we had to vote. But in order for the vote to go quietly, peacefully and correctly, I give you the opportunity, the replica, to speak up, please. From the rostrum? One minute from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u125	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear voters! Today you have the opportunity to observe the political shoving that takes place in the Supreme Council. On October 19th, indeed, there was an agreement, Frost asked: let's transpose, adopt the law, then vote on the members of the Supervisory Boards. But the law was immediately voted in violation of the Rules, since there were objections, there were objections. And according to the Rules, he cannot vote in general when there is a denial. And besides, the law is not signed by the President, so he's not legally empowered. And the determination that Gorbal is now stretching again is in conflict with the law that you just voted for. There you are five men, here you offer 14 men, and then you'll see where to put it. Your stakes are on fire, in your bank. So you're quick to compensate them at the expense of state banks? In addition, I make a note to the chairman of the session of Martinyuk for violating the Rules. We had the right to ask candidates for positions of oversight councils. We are deprived of that right. And, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u126	Thank you, thank you. I'll try to use your valuable advice, and it'll be all right, it'll be all right. Next. You have rightly pointed out that we do not violate any law, we are governed by the law that is in force. The law will change, the rules will change. Third. Once again, we spent more than two hours discussing this issue on October 19. The discussion was, we had to vote. Everyone has the right to vote as they please. Peter Alexiyovich, I am guided by the decision of the committee that you are lucky to lead. I am voting on the adoption of Decree No. 2352 on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine “and of the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine ‘Ukreximbank’ with the proposals and changes we have been given in exchange. Please vote. [[17:57:41]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce an extension of 15 minutes. We need to put a whole series of bills into the agenda so that the committees can work. For inclusion in the agenda of the Special Economic Zone Act of the Euroregion of Bukovina and the special regime for investment activities in this area. Registration number 2145. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:58:24]] For-24 Not turned on. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the delivery of a copy of the criminal offence order]] Registration number 2155. [[17:58:58]] For 384 It's on. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on public apology on behalf of the State]] Registration number 2210. [[17:59:24]] For 299 It's on. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for offences motivated by national, racial or religious hatred or hostility]] Registration number 2252. [[5:59:52]] For the five of us. Perhaps the author himself did not vote. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2275. [[on the exercise of parliamentary control over the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office]] [[18:00:19]] For 249 It's on. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2288. [[on the prevention of unauthorized phone-interviewing]] [[18:00:46]] For 209 Interesting, interesting. Who's to go back to the polls, please? [[18:01:10]] For 246 We're back. Who's in charge of including in the agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts? [[on the prevention of unauthorized phone-interviewing]] We're voting friendlyly. [[18:01:39]] For 244 It's on. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2431. [[on corporate conflicts]] [[18:02:06]] For 374 It's on. Draft Order amending paragraph 15 of Part One of Article 27 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. [[on the announcement of a recess in plenary session]] 2212. [[18:02:34]] For-149 Not turned on. "For grapes and grapes" was asked to be moved, do we include? Yes, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. Registration number 2109. [[18:03:05]] For 293 Thank you, it's on. Draft Act on the structure, mandate and nature of the legal and economic regime of the property complex of the Masandra National Industrial and Agrarian Association. Registration number 2136. Please be supportive. [[18:03:32]] For 332 Thank you, it's on. Draft Law on the Resource Insurance of Agriculture by Petroleum Products. Registration number 1298. [[18:03:57]] For -8 Not accepted. Yes, the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Code, the authors of the legislative initiative, the national deputy Volinec requests that we not include it yet. That's why I don't vote. Draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, registration number 2044. Please vote. [[18:04:36]] For-26 Not turned on. And, dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we now include and consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance in connection with Temporary Loss of Employment and Expenses caused by Birth and Funeral. [[Children’s New Year’s Gifts]] Let's just turn it on and take a look. Registration number 2385. Please be supportive. [[18:05:20]] For 409 It's on. I beg you, who is ready to report? Hara, please. In fact, Vasil Grigorovitch will inform us briefly, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple. It clarifies the Temporary Employment Insurance Act regarding out-of-school services and specifies, inter alia, the purchase of children's new gifts at Christmas and New Year's. We've been doing this for almost 90 years in our country, but it's just that there are times when someone doubts and whether it's the right thing to get new gifts, whether it's school service or not? Therefore, the representatives of the five factions in our Parliament, the members of our committee, submit the same proposal to the six articles of the Act. After the words “preschool services”, it is complemented by “including the purchase of children's new-day gifts”. I ask you to support this proposal and to clarify the new day's gifts so that no one will have that doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u128	Yes. Please, someone from the committee. Dry. Please, it's the dry mic from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour and the foundation fund that we talked about do not object to the adoption of such a bill. I'll tell you very briefly. We actually had some speculation, some misunderstanding that someone was warming their hands somewhere in there. The point is that we need to legally establish, as a form of extra-school service, the right of this fund to provide children of insured persons with these New Year's gifts. It is also a baby that rejoices near a new - year - old tree. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-11-02-m1.u130	Thank you. Nobody insists? Oh, no? Dear colleagues, let us show our unanimity because the representatives of each of the five factions are the authors of this bill, and we will vote as a law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law amending the Ukrainian Act “On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by births and funerals” on children's New Year's gifts. Bill number 2385. We're voting 400 votes. [[18:08:18]] For - 418 Thank you. 418 law passed. Dear colleagues, we've exhausted the order of the day with you, we can't hear, we're out of the place. Mikola Vasilovich, tomorrow, tomorrow. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council, he declared himself closed and went to study the proposals of Deputy Láška.
