ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[10:00:56]] There are 389 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Boyko Volodymyr Semenovich. Let's welcome our patriarch of the metal industry with this birthday. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please register with the National Deputies for announcements, reports, statements. Today we have 30 minutes. Yes, please point to the board. Is it? Kravczuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Get ready for Dennis. There's no Kravczuk? Is it? Dear colleagues, I remind you once again: whoever wants to say or pass on the word, raise your hand so that I can see, for I do not know what you want. Tomenko? Please, Mikola Tomenko. Get ready for Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u2	Mikola Tomenko. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our faction, I would like to draw attention to the extremely important problem of adopting the basic economic law of the budget. And it's very important for us to have the budget discussion go beyond the core of the Supreme Council, where it happened yesterday, and it would be a social and public discussion, because for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we have a document to which there are so many questions. If we decided to change Ukraine’s legislative base with the budget, it was possible for the developers to do so by proposing a change in 16 taxes. This has never been the case in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. And it must be said that the government evidently wanted to solve all the questions once and for all with one document for five years. There has never been a privatization programme in the budget, because there is a list of enterprises that need to be privatized. I remind everyone that in order to determine the order and list of privatized enterprises, the State Privatization Programme must be adopted. As a humanitarian social worker, I'm surprised why the government decided to privatise the entire Ukrainian polygraph with the budget without discussing the profile committees. This is where all state-owned polygraph companies are privatized. This may have been the case, and society decided to do so. What surprises me is that all social programs for today are either shortened or compressed. I would also like to hear the position of our Committee on Science and Education that we will refuse to carry out the 57th article of the Education Act, which clearly provides that we repay our debts to teachers with equal parts each year. This year's 4 times the cost of the previous year. That means we're deceiving teachers now if we're going to accept this budget. There is a very serious problem with pension insurance. For the first time, Parliament was offered a budget where pensions remained virtually stable, i.e. all of these pre-election promises, which all the political forces had been talking about increasing pensions, remained on paper. Everyone was talking about the savings return election. Look at the amount you're going to return in a year, 650 million is practically the number of years ago, and everyone said that the return on savings is extremely important. I think we're going to have a special budget discussion, and we're going to go back to that, but I'd like it not to end with tomorrow's meeting, but it would be a social discussion, because if you look at government and ministry spending, you'll see that for the first time in history the government and ministry costs go up from 5 to 8 times, so the money for social programs is there, and I want the whole society to bring that money back from government to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u3	Thank you. The budget will be discussed tomorrow, the budget will be presented. Please, Denisova, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. To be prepared, Widowenko tells Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Although Adam Ivanovich said that we have a budget discussion tomorrow, there is no pee till tomorrow. I would therefore like to draw your attention now to the selected paragraphs of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Bill. The first is the lack of the State budget, which is laid down in this bill and is worrying. The budget deficit would be 14.4 per cent, i.e. an increase in the budget deficit compared to 2006, although there was a large deficit, and this was therefore not very comfortable for the country. What methods do our bill try to cover this deficit? Two methods are internal borrowing and external borrowing. Yes, Nikolai Janović Azarov said it was inconvenient and uncomfortable for a country to have such a small external debt. But I would like to point out that we are going to be in the foreign market today, but the country, in light of political developments, is recognized as a high-risk country in the world. And that's why interest will be high for us, and money will be expensive. That's what I'd like to pay attention to. Moreover, in terms of budget projections, there is a hidden deficit, with a hidden deficit of 23 billion rubble. What are we gonna cover for him for? And it is very clear and follows from the analysis of the draft budget that we have so far, that we will cover by increasing the income of local budgets by 31 per cent. What does that mean? We do not increase their tax base; we are reducing it by amending 16 bills, as the previous speaker said. That is why local budgets are on the knees of regions, and the country is only strong in its strong regions. I therefore ask your attention to remember that local budgets are the wages of our workers. In general, I would like to draw your attention to the distinguished deputies, although you do not wish to draw attention to the budget bill, that it is simply a country that is becoming a government republic, that all those powers that have been given even to the 2006 budgets, namely to control: State guarantees, public debt, distribution and coverage, the Supreme Council is depriving the bill. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich gives the word “Kendzior, ” and it is also written down. So please, Jaroslav Kenzier, six minutes. Plitnikov is handing Chechtov over to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u6	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. In November of each year, Ukraine celebrates the tragic anniversary of the famine of 32 to 33 years. There was a recent forum of Ukrainians, which also, among other problems and issues, touched on the problem of recognition of the famine by the people of Ukraine and adopted an appropriate appeal to the parliament of Ukraine, to the world community, to the parliaments of all States. There's a statement by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on this tragedy, which is an appeal to the last central leadership of the People's Movement of Ukraine regarding the recognition of famine for 32-33 years as an act of genocide of the Ukrainian people. I am today, my fellow national MPs, touching this issue, and I would like to remind you all of you of the fifth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 May 2003 to hold parliamentary hearings on the occasion of the famine of 32-33 years. In an adopted decision and a statement, the appeal, which is part of the Supreme Council's ruling, says that we believe that under the conditions of an independent Ukraine, the fearsome truth about those years should be officially made public, because the famine of the 32-33 years was deliberately organized by the Stalin regime and must be publicly condemned by Ukrainian society and international society as one of the largest casualties in world history of genocide. We, as participants in the special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 May 2003, do so today, recognizing the famine of 32-33 years as an act of genocide of the Ukrainian people under the Devil's scheme of the Stalin regime. We know that today, 10 European and American parliaments have recognized this act of extermination by the Ukrainian people as an act of genocide by the Communist Stalinist regime. For this reason, there should be a logical continuation of the solution to this problem and a final dot on this problem -- a call by the Ukrainian Parliament to the United Nations to make this international organization recognize as an act of genocide a famine, artificially organized by the Communist regime as an act of genocide. A further appeal to the Hague International Court of Justice should be made to give an appropriate criminal assessment of this crime. And just as the Nuremberg trial condemned the Fascist rulers, so should the superiors who committed this crime against the Ukrainian people, and then their followers today, those who bear this ideology in today's already independent Ukrainian state. Today the archives of the KGB, the Ukrainian Security Service, are open, where all crimes against the Ukrainian people can be made public. And honourable national MPs, this is not normal when only in 15 years of independent Ukraine secret KGB archives are being opened. Who, then, is hidden by an independent Ukraine? Why she hides criminals who have committed crimes against the Ukrainian people. And one more thing. Today the Head of the State Archives is appointed Communist Hinzburg. But of course, the Head of the State Department will surely either destroy the documents that claim and record the crimes of the Communists against the Ukrainian people. One more. Here's what I'm talking about, a call to the UN and to the Hague Court by the Ukrainian Parliament. It is a test for today’s so - called anti - crisis coalition, as they view those crimes, to assess those crimes, one of the subjects of the anti - crisis coalition, the followers of the political power that committed those crimes. And today it seems strange when the Supreme Council, more faithfully, needs to be specified, this so-called anti-crisis or anti-Ukrainian majority, decides to support the anti-Ukrainian position of its leader, Yanukovic, and does not make a decision to go to the Russian Duma, to the Russian leadership to give all Ukrainian objects to Crimea, lighthouses, and so on, the land that is occupied by the Russian army. That's what she needs to think about today, if it's the Ukrainian Supreme Council, her so-called majority in the Supreme Council. And Ukrainian society should evaluate this coalition majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u7	Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. And he's given the word "kiselov." Six minutes, please. Prepare Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u8	Mikhail Chechetov, faction of Party regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. It can only be welcomed that the President's secretariat has finally taken up its direct responsibilities and has begun to analyse the socio-economic situation in the country and provide the President with relevant materials. But they use not primary sources, not papers, press releases, otherwise it is impossible to understand why the criticism of the President is not addressed to the real state of affairs, but to how newspapers, websites write about it. As a result, officials from the secretariat framed the President. If the President had forced his employees to read the papers, not the newspapers, he would have received immediate answers to all of his questions. “The 2007 budget project has no indication of a reduction in the tax burden”, Viktor Yushchenko said at a briefing Friday in Kiev. He said that the situation made it difficult for the authorities to engage in a dialogue with business. Indeed, the draft budget for 2007 provides for a reduction in the reallocation of GDP through the budget to 30.2 per cent, and in the first half of 2006 it reached almost 35 per cent. In particular, there has been a reduction in the share of State-owned enterprises from 50 per cent to 15 per cent. That is, about 2 billion grevens are left at the disposal of these enterprises for the innovative renewal of production and modernization, technological re-arms, and the introduction of energy-saving technologies. Dialogue with business is always difficult if you run it. Previous Governments had no difficulty in dialogue, since they had not conducted it, they had simply tilted the oil traders, meat processors, sugar producers, metallurgy and received a crisis after crisis. The dialogue with business and the public is now being restored. For example, for the presentation to the public of the 2007 draft budget, representatives of entrepreneurs, authoritative experts: Mitjukov, Lisicki,. The plans to reduce the pressure on business were welcomed with great satisfaction. Second. Victor Yushchenko said that it was not clear that the State budget project was focused on billions of capital investments at a time when there was an increase in authority, including financial ones, by local authorities. Indeed, the State budget for the year 2-7 has strongly changed the ratio of government to local budgets. The latter represents 43.4 per cent in the country's consolidated budget, compared with 36.2 per cent in 2005 and 40.4 per cent in 2006. Innovation and investment development costs amount to 25.7 billion grivens. How do they divide? 1,897 billion This appropriation is intended to - for the development of an agri-industrial complex. That is, subsidies to real producers, plant products on the ground to compensate for the purchase of complex agricultural equipment, i.e. to farmers on the ground, for the disposal of loans for agricultural enterprises and so on. 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure – development of the JCC and socio-economic development of the regions. That is, subsidies to regions for capital investments, reconstruction of central systems, water supply, water supply, or utilities. Subsidies to depressed regions, to reform housing and utilities, i.e. money will go all the way to JEC. 1 billion. 425 million This appropriation is intended to cover - the development of the construction industry, namely: the provision of housing for eligible citizens, the concessional lending of housing for young people and other categories entitled to it. For the construction of housing for employees, soldiers, and the reconstruction of socio-cultural facilities. 6 billion. 949 million This appropriation is intended to cover - Construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads. 2 billion. 912 million This appropriation is intended to cover - for scientific, scientific and technological activities. Three billion. This appropriation is intended to Health costs are increasing. In addition, three quarters of the total expenditure is 16 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union and for the general budget of the Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget And so on. That is, the lion's share of investment costs will reach specific enterprises, local budgets, people. They will be planned on the basis of applications and calculations by local authorities and public enterprises. Third. This is a manual management that will then form corruption, opaque approaches, said Victor Yushchenko. Indeed, only in July, before the release of its cabinets, the past Government made payments of 1 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. More than income allowed. That is to say, it increased the deficit by a third immediately. At the same time, it left applications for VAT reimbursement, of which it was 700 million immediately. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Reimbursement had to be suspended, as there were no legitimate grounds for such reparation. What and who had been reimbursed before is still to be understood. Thus, the transparency and validity of the decisions of the predecessors should be seriously examined and assessed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, the Suškević microphone from the spot. To prepare, Kravchenko passes Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u10	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Suškević, faction “Bloka julia timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I look forward to the budgetary process every year, and I hope that in each draft of the State Budget, there will be elements that finance another social law. And this is a normal practice that allows our social legislation to work on the entry into force of the law, the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. But you know, I'm honestly shocked by the 40 articles of the State Budget, and even though tomorrow will be the main discussion, I'd like to talk about this 40th article, not knowing if I can get to the microphone tomorrow. I'm just gonna say a little bit about her. The provision of benefits, compensations, guarantees, government social security, social assistance, and assistance to families with children and other social benefits — that is, all of them and their size — are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the point is that all the social legislation that has been done over the years, including those legislative acts that have been worked by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, including the size of them, the rules of direct action that are set out in the law next year will only be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. And even those positive moments, if they are in terms of increasing social benefits and aid that are in the State Budget project, the Cabinet of Ministers is able to change the size and order of the grant over the year. You know, this rule cannot have the right to life in the State Budget Act, this rule practically overturns the work of all of Ukraine's social legislation, which has been done over the years. And that is certainly not the way to accept this article. I am extremely concerned that a number of disabled people’s programs have been transferred to the local budget. And the adequacy of the size of local budgets with the transfer of disabled programs to local budgets raises doubts. And for this reason, there is doubt that these real budget expenditures will be funded in relation to the problems of the disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Simonenko also gives him the word “Clock. ” Six minutes. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u12	Respectable radio audiences, our voters, our TV crews, our respected colleagues! I would like to address three issues or three issues. First. The Communist faction is categorically opposed to the differential approach with regard to the payment of child birth allowance of 8.5,000 bracelets. We condemn such practices and invite Prime Minister Yanukovic to examine in detail the economic rationale for such innovations, to decide accordingly to punish those responsible for making such proposals and to remove this issue from the agenda. Why do we, the Communist faction, propose that? This violation of article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides for the exclusion, violation of the rights and benefits of certain categories that have obtained this right by law. This is also because it is this law that we are talking about today that it was adopted at the initiative of the communists in the previous assembly, the author of this draft law, Samylik Ekaterina Semenovna. It was on the basis of this draft law that we forced the first orange government, I remember these discussions, to include funds in the budget here in the Supreme Council. We therefore have every reason to demand that this law be implemented today. This rule is not the source of budgeting. I think that the Government should take a serious look at what the real economy is going to be like today, take a strong fight against tennis, set up a customs policy there twice after the oranges have been mastered, so to speak, so to speak, that the risk charges are fixed, and that they should be set up at the same customs office. Today, there is a need to increase rents for oil and gas production and many other proposals, they are real, and I think they need to be considered. The second problem that I would like to talk about and express my point of view and our faction. This is a matter of order in the country today. It is against this order in the country that the orange team is resisting. I want to give you an example of who the orange team has set up in our country. We have the Nikolaev Seaport, a state-owned enterprise. The new Minister, the appointed Minister of Transport, orders the commission, establishes a legitimate requirement to verify the organization of the Government's business, the Nikolaev Sea Trade Port. What's going on? The Director of this enterprise applies to the Chamber of Commerce to order the commission to prohibit the inspection of the activities of the State enterprise. The State enforcer shall promptly comply with this order of the court. Comrades, there's a fact of corruption. Such a director should be prosecuted immediately from the company. In this way, order in this sector. It's obvious that today, let's say, in the orange top, we're going to get to the point where we're going to lose control of the country at all! I believe that these facts have shown once more that thousands of court decisions are not being implemented. As soon as it's in the corruption schemes, and this is the enterprise's management schemes, it's clear to whom the orange ones put up, it's natural to be able to distribute cargo flows and get over-concessions on this trading port. That is what the fight is against today, as we are told in Ukraine. And the third problem. Dear comrades, this hysteria about the decision we made yesterday. The Security Council is meeting in a timely manner. Screaming and splattering. What's the problem? I would like to inform you, the voters, and my colleagues. Comrades, let us not forget who made the noise and why. First of all, this has raised the sound of analytical centres and social organizations that are naturally interested in joining Ukraine in NATO. They require an urgent meeting of the PNB with the agenda, and so on, with regard to the relationship with the Alliance. As a result of this meeting, the President will sign a decree and an official appeal to the Secretary-General of NATO to join Ukraine in implementing the plan of action for joining NATO. Now it's the essence of their interests. And the interest is that it's all the grapes that made the noise. These are the structures that resulted in the loss of $25 million in U.S. bribes for these grants specifically for this commercial. But most dangerous, and in this part we need to deal with the Minister of Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that we need to hear them shortly in accordance with political reform at our meeting. Why? Because they are today determined by the fact that it is the environment of one minister and another minister as a result of the postponement of NATO accession that has lost $10 million to NATO advertising. Our comrades, it turns out, live on bribes by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. The Grantodes of War lift and the people of Ukraine are so confused. They receive $25 million, and what will the people of Ukraine get out of it? That is why, dear fellows, I believe that we must take the matter seriously and we must now bring the ministers to justice that they are engaged in anti-State activities. And the last. I'm in the middle of what one of the cave anti-communists here said. The Communist faction is not afraid to open archives, and this is to be done because the opening of archives will require the implementation of the decisions of the Nuremberg Court as part of their desire to rehabilitate UN-OPA, and the Nuremberg Process, which we celebrate next month for the 60th year, has determined that UN-OPA were supporters of the fascists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Masterful colleagues! To me as the national deputy of Ukraine and deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations on behalf of the rural community, the village of Medieval. Rakhov district of Zacarpathia, an absolute majority of which is the root of the Romanian minority, was approached by a middle - watered village head. Ask him to contribute to the organization of the 600th anniversary of the first historical mention of the village, to which invited high-ranking guests from both Ukraine and abroad. On this occasion, the cost of the rural community was built a new house of culture, but it is essential to purchase an inventory for its use. Sadly, though, the village council does not have the necessary funds. It is also necessary to assist in repairing the main street of the village, which will be central to the celebration of this event. It should be noted that in this Romanian village, where there are about seven thousand people, the building of this house of culture, as well as the construction of other social buildings in the village: the hospital, the kindergarten, the state and local budgets, were not involved. And it seems that this is the result of an incomprehensible political approach to solving the problems of this village, which is unacceptable under the conditions of a new democracy. As a result, I made a parliamentary appeal in the name of the head of the district administration of Oleg Hawaii: to give appropriate instructions for the allocation of the necessary funds for the purchase of the necessary inventory: chairs, tables, curtains, repairs of the central road of the village with solid coverage and to engage in the celebration of the appropriate administrations and cultural departments of the Zacarpathian District Administration and the Rakhiv District Administration. Unfortunately, apart from the letter from “Olovtodora”, I did not get any information. Please consider my appeal today as a parliamentary request. One second. In addition, there is a city in the Zacarpathian region on the Tis River opposite the village of Solotvino, which has been built for several years but does not seem to be in operation. It should be noted that from that side of the bridge in the area. About 30,000 Ukrainians live. Some 40,000 Romanians live on this side of the bridge. The point is, they have family connections and cannot go to each other’s homes. That's why I'm asking the relevant services for the immediate entry into service of this bridge in order to resolve the issue of both the Romanians and the Ukrainians in Romania, in cross-border cooperation. And third, finally. In the Chernobyl region, there is political repression at the level of the Hertzev region and other political repressions. For example, the headmaster of the village school. The Ionian region of Hertziev was stripped of its work with political motives. He was reinstated. But immediately, the local area again freed him. That is why I demand that the political repression cease immediately and that the new leaders be appointed to participate in the participation of national minorities. Since there is neither head nor one of his deputies in the region nor the head of the district education system is familiar with the Romanian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u15	Dear Ivane Vasilovich, and honourable colleagues, I would like to ask more of the phrases that “I would like to consider this to be my MP’s request” not to be used. Therefore, in accordance with the new Rules, parliamentary requests are now made in a very different way. So please do not take offense when you speak, make suggestions, and we will not form them as parliamentary requests or petitions. That's what every deputy has to do on his own. Please, this practice is no longer in force in connection with the entry into force of the new Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine on the commencement of the activities of the Administrative Courts of Appeal is under consideration. Report to the head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, please. Please sign up from the faction to the speech, to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u17	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u18	Sergei Vasilovich, one second, now, now. They've registered from factions, now from the deputies, please sign up if you need to. Thank you. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u19	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Justice, which I have submitted on 4 September this year, have considered a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice to extend the deadline for the commencement of the work of the Courts of Appeal until 1 July 2007. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since September 1st of this year, an appeal hearing on administrative matters has stopped in our country. The current General Court and Courts of Appeal are no longer authorized to deal with these cases, and those authorized to do so are still unable to start work. The result is a massive violation of citizens’ rights to appeal for administrative matters that have lasted for half a month and should be stopped immediately. The decree of the President of Ukraine provides 66 judges for seven administrative appeals courts. Of these, only 22 were selected. Thus, the Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal currently consists of only one judge, and there should be ten. Three courts do not have heads and none of them are provided with premises. Therefore, the Committee on Justice, at its meeting, approved this bill, which changes only one sentence in the Code of Administrative Justice: “The end date of the commencement of the work of the Courts of Appeal to determine 1 July 2007 instead of 1 September 2006”. This gives the time needed to complete an appeal chain of administrative courts in accordance with the law while guaranteeing the right of citizens to appeal their cases during the transitional period. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u20	Thank you. What are the questions for the reporter? Five minutes, please write down and sign up for questions. No, no, you signed up for the show. Sign up for the question. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u21	I ask you to pass on the word of Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Sergei Vasilevich, it is understandable that the deadlines have failed because there was no funding. I looked at the 2005 and 2006 budgets, and let's say that in 2005, 4.4 million were allocated to the organization of the work of the administrative courts and 10.2 million were allocated to the organization of the work of the administrative courts and 10.2 million in 2006. Here's a question. Where was the money spent? Second question. How much money does it take in the 2007 budget to implement these proposals for the start of the courts on July 1, 2007?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, at the last meeting of the Committee on Procrastination, we considered funding issues. I want to tell you that the Government has not completed nearly 60 per cent in administrative courts. And speaking to the committee, the head of the Ukrainian court administration said and requested the Committee to support financing issues, in particular administrative courts. Everything that has been proposed by the judiciary, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court has been taken into account and we have taken a decision, and this decision has to date gone to our Rules Committee and to the Government. To remove what has happened today, we need another 147 million. Therefore, in order for the administrative courts to earn money. I wish to tell you that, in addition to money for the maintenance of administrative courts, we also need to comply with the President's decree on the provision of premises for administrative courts. I want to tell you that out of the 7 appeals administrative courts, almost no premises have been allocated. What's more, I've got the data, the information on the District Administrative Courts, we've got 15. Of the 15 courts, only 12 have more or less facilities. There are no other rooms. I believe that this topic of discussion will soon be considered at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. I think that this time, if the people's deputies support this bill, which is proposed for consideration today, we will consider it on the committee as soon as possible. In this situation, the Committee will act as the monitoring body provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u24	Sergey Vasilovich, thank you for such a thorough answer, but please answer briefly because others are not able to ask questions. However, the question needed a brief answer. They didn't spend the money because they just didn't get it, that's all. Please, Olinik asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u25	Vladimir Olijnik, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Sergei Vasilovich, you know, we support these changes to the law because we understand that in this part we can stop the litigation. At the same time, the transfer of this date does not guarantee that we will not return to this issue again. And I have a question. Because it's not an easy topic, because the premises, the graduations, it's not just the funds, I don't want to have justice sent back to the poor. And I have a question about whether there are any mechanisms on the committees that could take special control so that we don't listen to this important issue again, with terms and proposals for transferring this important topic that is expected by our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u26	I think there is every opportunity to organize the work of the administrative courts in our State. And I think that the Justice Committee and Parliament as a whole will monitor these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u28	Sergei Vasilovich, I have two such short questions. Please tell me, what was he using, or was he thinking about what the committee was thinking when it was July 1st? Why Not First September? How was that for 2006? Since it is clear that this is the anniversary of the adoption of the Administrative Code of Procedural Procedure? So I don't think there's any point in putting this rule of law into effect for these two months somehow. Two months, maybe that's enough for us to at least make the basic repairs that I hope they'll have. And the second. You said it was just a third, not even the costs for the courts. So maybe it's worth writing that this bill needs some extra spending from the state budget? Isn't it written that they don't need any extra expenses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u29	With regard to the budget, I have already said that at the last meeting of the Committee, the proposals of all interested persons and the Supreme Administrative Court and the judiciary were considered. And we've all studied. And the extra costs today, there is no way to spend and allocate money. We therefore considered that what had been allocated for 2006 would be the same in 2007 and that would be enough for the appeals, administrative courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u30	It's from the committee, from the Communists. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u31	The proposal, with regard to 1 July or 1 September, was the proposal of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. That is why we, the Committee, agreed on that date.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u32	According to the Communist faction record, it is written down by a man who says so. Who will speak? You get your advice, and then you'll say it. Chubarov from “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u33	Sergey Vasilovich, you have reported very well on appeals courts, but in view of the fact that we have adopted the Earth Code, which has brought a lot of care, especially to pensioners, and to sue or to the district court or to the higher court of appeal, this is a very big problem for them. I think in every area, I don't want to say that there should be a grand appeal court, but the representative in the area should be from the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u34	Moses, please, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u35	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. Not surprisingly, you and I are destined to vote for this law. The Act on the Entry into Force of Administrative Jurisdiction has been adopted. By September 1, this year, there would have been appeal courts. That's not what happened. So today we have to define a new term from which appeal courts in Ukraine will take effect. The situation, indeed, is, as Sergey Vasilovich said, strange. The right of citizens to appeal against judicial decisions is provided by the Constitution of Ukraine. This function in administrative matters has been removed from the civil court of appeal. Hence, since September 1, this year, there is no judicial body that has the right to hear appeals in administrative matters. Our faction will support this law, but the faction expresses concern about whether we will need July 2nd, July 8th of the coming year to stand in this rostrum again and continue to enforce the Law on Courts of Appeal in Ukraine. By September 1, 2006, nearly 25 million dollars had been planned in the budget for appeals courts. And, as Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov said, no money was actually made available. As far as the draft budget for the new year 2007 is concerned, the court’s needs are met by 55 percent. So we will talk not only about appeals courts but also about all other courts in Ukraine. The courts should not be financed by half as much as the fashionable half - faithfully and legally. I'd like to pay attention to one more thing. Dear colleagues! Yesterday we did not support the amendment to the Tax Police Act, which referred to 1,255 people who served honestly and conscientiously in the police, but served in the tax authorities, we did not give them the same rights as firemen, the Enforcement Service, the Ministry of Justice, and so on. This is because half a million of our citizens receive such benefits for going to work in pursuits. So the faction wants to support this bill, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u36	Andrew Volodymyrovich Portnov, please, has a word from “The Block of Julius Timoshenko. ” Are you going to talk from the place? Please. Prepared by Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u37	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The creation of administrative courts is an extremely important step in the development of a democratic Ukrainian state and society. The main task of the administrative courts is to protect and restore the rights of individuals against violations of authority. The bill before us, whether we want it or not, must be supported, because the appeals courts of appeal are not yet in place for Ukraine. Thus, citizens' access to justice is effectively suspended. But we need to find out why. In fact, we have today an example of the lack of power in the execution of the tasks of the Court of Appeal. And they thought there was no financing. According to our funding data, there were also all the organizational possibilities for the creation of appeal courts. At the same time, there are no courts. It is understandable that the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has questioned the beginning of the work of the administrative appeals courts of July 1, 2007, as proposed by the bill. There is a high probability that this will not happen at this time. At the same time, what did the State Court Administration do about the establishment of these courts, and where were the funds used? At the same time, I would like to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a formal investigation into the failure to comply with the requirements of the Code of Administrative Justice. The corresponding text of the parliamentary address will be sent to me shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u38	Thank you. The factions have spoken. Now. And, Miroshnichenko, I'm sorry, Yuri Romanovich of the faction of the regions is still in position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. In my speech, I would like to support Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov as head of the committee of profile, on the issue of justice, and invite all of us to support the bill now proposed for consideration as a whole. All previous speakers thoroughly examined the need for the adoption of this law. We have examined the vacuum of administrative litigation that has resulted from the fact that, since September 1, 2006, actual administrative appeals have not been carried out and, accordingly, we are obliged to settle this issue. When it was considered why it was necessary to transfer the terms and make changes to this law, Sergey Vasilovich thoroughly explained the circumstances and positions that were expressed by the relevant institutions of the judicial branch and, accordingly, the position of the committee. At the same time, I would like to support the previous speaker and even point out the circle of issues that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration is paying attention to, and that's why the rule of law that was envisaged before September 1, 2006 was not actually implemented to create an appeal system for administrative courts. We need to figure this out. I think we're going to do this at the meeting of our profile committee. That is, how many rooms are not available and what are the reasons; what actions have not been funded and again what are the reasons; how many courts of appeal have not been appointed. And here's the question is that no funding has been made, it can't be an argument. How many judges have not been assigned the same. What is the situation with the establishment of district administrative courts? And we've heard that they're not all made either. If this situation is not addressed by our profile committee, I think we will initiate the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to ensure that the law is implemented by 1 July 2007 and then not really justify the transfer of terms. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u40	The MPs would like to make a statement on this point. Knazevich, please, Ruslan Petrovich. He will be followed by Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I remember how much pleasure each lawyer's heart was so filled when in Ukraine from 2000 and in fact by 2005 there was some kind of so-called little judicial reform. We talked so much about it, we were so happy about it that we were finally able to make a fundamental breakthrough on the way to a complete, complete judicial reform that was discussed so much in Ukraine. The crown of this reform has been the establishment of an administrative court system, which is an integral component of the so - called continental system of law to which we are trying so hard to go, since we have not yet been really determined which way we are going. From the path from former socialist law, we tried and chose the right path -- the path to continental law. Sadly, however, it was found that the system of administration was virtually unnecessary. After all, remember that story that was with the Supreme Administrative Court, when the court only received a third year of its actual existence, a room that, you know, was shut down, rested off from the Arsenal factory, a little bit of color. And thank God that the first serious meeting that became public around the accusations of the results of the last parliamentary elections was properly able to be conducted in the very walls of this new room. On the other hand, to be honest, it is still not clear how to address the systemic issue of appeal courts, without taking it apart, not outside the complete system of administrative courts. And we know that the system not only suffers in appeals courts, it's the administrative system, it's the biggest problem, perhaps in district courts. To date, the role of the district courts has been played by local courts, which have been overburdened. If the main idea was to separate, to take this category of cases away from them, because we know that at the level of local courts, judges don't divide into colleges civil and criminal or administrative, there is every judge who does justice from all categories of cases. And I know from the experience of the Pecher Court, and I think that this situation in many courts, when in fact the picture as it was, has not changed in any way at all. Because of this, it's a shame that the committee under consideration has concluded that no conclusions have been reached from any other committee. I don't know about other committees, but we haven't had a chance on the legal committee to look at this, at least, as secretary of the committee, I haven't heard anything about it. Because I'd really like to think that, despite the fact that we really have to accept this, but in July 2007, it seems to me that nothing will be done about it, because it's not up to us to postpone these things. Indeed, the newly speaking Miroshnichenko rightly said that there are many objective reasons for the appointment of judges. Seven? The judges ’ appointment proved to be a very serious problem, not surprisingly. Why are there no judges? Is there not yet a worthy submission? Is there, in fact, no submission from the council of judges? There may be no filing by the head of the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Jaroslav Petrovich. He's on his way. He's got a widow. Instead of Kamchatka, Zamkovenko is speaking, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Mikola Zamkovenko, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, the question that is being considered today is too important. I can't tell you, however, that people today can't be protected from the crime that sometimes happens in our society. So I fully support the bill introduced by the committee and by Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov. And I want to let you know that, in fact, on the committee this question was under consideration. And we have all expressed ourselves unequivocally for this Law to be adopted in general and on a basis. Instead, I wanted to say a few words about the conclusion that was reached with regard to this project by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I cannot agree with the point that some financial justification was needed before this Law. It's not the Supreme Council's fault or the Justice Committee's fault. And this financial provision for the establishment of district and appeal courts should be taken care of by the state, and this should be indicated in the budget. The budget was to provide the appropriate funds. Instead, as was the correct reply that no one had allocated the funds, so they had not been squandered to this day when the committee had been subject to consideration, we had the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, acting as the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who agreed on the matter, which, in fact, many questions arose that there were no suitable premises. Now only within the cities of Kiev are such rooms that are brought into human form so that justice can be served on these issues. If we don't apply this law today and we don't change the term, we're going to go into the legal field, into the legal vacuum, because, practically, we're going to deny the judicial authority to deal with these issues. To this day these questions have been considered in the Courts of Appeal. Since there is no solution to this question now, the Courts of Appeal will not be able to resolve this issue. So I propose to make these changes, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u44	Thank you. The widow of Gennady Josephovich asks for words. After him, Rigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Indeed, it is an important and timely law, and adoption is essential. But the discussion of this bill moved me to address a broader issue. That's it. I would like to remind you that today the courts, in accordance with the Constitution, have to ensure the application of human constitutional rights and freedoms. We don't have that in the state. In eight years of work on the Human Rights Committee, as each of you new MPs are waiting for me, and those who were formerly national deputies have been working with this over and over again, thousands of appeals go to citizens for decisions or judicial bodies, or local authorities, complaints from various issues. And these questions don't get solved. In fact, nothing has changed today in our seemingly democratic state. We still have an old totalitarian attitude toward human rights and fundamental freedoms. And as long as we, the Supreme Council, seriously fail to reform the judicial system, we will not live up to the expectations of people for a better democratic life and that their rights and freedoms will be protected. And the fact that this bill can be viewed as the first piece of paper today, but it's going to be a no-effect decision again, because without funding, without the provision of premises, these courts don't work, it's all propaganda. Therefore, the Supreme Council really needs to strengthen control, and a broader plan, perhaps in public discussion, to re-examine the issue of implementation in our State of Reform. Otherwise, people have become disillusioned in power, and people have become disillusioned in this activity. And today we see in the next year's draft budget, judicial reform receives only 50 percent of its funding. And we're also increasing funding requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u46	Instead of Grigorovitch, Klukkowski is speaking. Please. Ah, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. I'm sorry, I haven't heard that far, although Yuri Bogdanovich is ready to speak, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u47	The Honourable Head, the Honourable First Deputy, the Honourable National Deputies. In fact, the Supreme Council does not have an alternative to voting today, since it is a matter of fulfilling with us its constitutional obligation to ensure citizens’ rights to access to justice. In particular, I will simply explain, perhaps for those who have found the contents of this bill. The point is that by September 1st of this year, the right to appeal administrative matters, i.e. civil appeals against the State, officials, public authorities and local governments, had been made by the commercial and general courts of appeal under the rules of the Code of Administrative Justice. In particular, it was anticipated that by this time an administrative appeal court system would be established. But as this has already been said, particularly in the speech of the committee head, the drafter of the bill, other speakers, for various reasons, and the lack of budgetary funding, and the fragility of those on whom it depends, I mean the provision of the organisational activities of the courts on the ground, the system of the fully-appellate administrative courts has not been established. This means that: (a) the courts of agriculture and the general no longer have jurisdiction over administrative matters in appeal, and the administrative courts do not yet have jurisdiction. So, your honorary colleagues, we have to approve today both in general, and on the basis, and on the whole, the stated law and propose, in particular, and pay attention, and I think that our discussion of the bill and it does this function, the executive power, all those on whom it depends on the creation of proper conditions for the commencement of the work of appeal courts and to ensure in this way the fulfilment of the constitutional obligation and the rights of citizens to the right to appeal and the consideration of decisions that are decided on administrative matters in the appeal order. I think that today's discussion is also a good reason to draw the government's attention to the problem of financing the judiciary, because in some parts of the appeal courts have not been created at the right time, including because of funding problems, particularly when it comes to the acquisition by the State Court of Justice of the proper premises for the placement of appeals administrative courts. All of them are due to be made up in Ukraine by 7, today appointed heads and solved questions about the location, premises, only 4. So this term that we're giving, by 1 July of the following year, is going to be removed and removed. to ensure the operation of the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Sergey the Great has a word for Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u49	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, to tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by this tone of conversation. Parliament is dealing with the issue of how to continue the formation of the courts. And there is no question in Parliament: Why, then, did the previous parliament have such difficulty in adopting the Code of Administrative Justice? In order for every person in Ukraine to be able to sue for actions, inactivity, abuse, abuse of an official or any authority of state. After all, the Supreme Council of the past convened did so and contributed to the development of the legal system, which should be in a state governed by the rule of law principle. But there is no system because there are no administrative courts. So isn't that the nabbata for this Supreme Council? Isn't that the alarm signal? And what happened that we need another year, if you'll excuse me, so that we can make three more courts? But the problem is not that there is no money, henady Josephovich and Mikola, my colleague in faction. It's all there is. There's money. This year more than 10 million dollars were allocated to the administrative courts. But why are they not used? Then it was said that the Ministry of Justice was once, in Soviet times, and then, when I was first minister, it had an impact on the courts, because the Ministry of Justice was responsible for material and technical security. Not today. Today there is the State Court Administration. The body that is called upon to provide it with facilities, equipment, technology, computers, records, pens, paper, and all of this. But why hasn’t even the four courts that have already been established been provided by the State Administration since the adoption of the Code? As far as I'm concerned, they had these funds for renting the premises. They didn't do it either. Thus, the National Court of Justice had every opportunity to make leases on temporary premises. In addition, by September 1, she had to have centralized the purchase of computer equipment, technical fixation systems, furniture, and office equipment. Which was not done. It's not a problem, it's a problem of inactivity. Then let's ask ourselves, and we're like a parliament that controls the government. What, we're gonna leave it? You've moved on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on? No, it's not. Maybe Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm talking to Mr. Kiwalov, other colleagues, those who are in pain for that system, let's have court hearings about the state of the court's premises and the material and technical security, and the state administration's activities in the previous period. Why this is not done, and let us show that one must at last bear the political responsibility for doing nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Let's summarize our discussion. In view of the reasoned position of all who took part in the discussion, one way or another, decisions should be made. Therefore, Sergei Petrovich’s reasoning on the need for hearings should be discussed. Obviously, the committee should consider and make such a proposal. And that would be right, because it was really a decision to make, and it should be done. In the meantime, I'm voting on the draft law in the first reading on the suspension of the earlier passage. No, first of all, let us give in to the first reading so that there is no objection. And then let's see, maybe we can finally take it right away. Anyone who wishes to speak by vote, please use this, turn on the “Council” system. [[11:12:21]] For 365 Decision taken. One proposal was made from those making the proposal to be finally adopted as a law. Since it's simple in all respects, there's no objection, I see. I then put to the vote this law, this bill as a law for adoption finally. Please. [[11:12:58]] For 382 Decision taken. “For” – 382 national deputies. A draft Act amending article 265 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the illicit treatment of radioactive materials]] Project Celestine. And there's the design of this project accordingly. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kelestina Valeriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to Article 265 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 1031, is presented for your consideration. [[on the illicit treatment of radioactive materials]] On September 13, this year, the bill was reviewed and discussed by the Professional Committee on Law Enforcement. Half of the deputies, members of the committee, expressed their support for the bill, half of it to send it to the author, i.e. I'm working on reprinting it to the committee's first reading. Nevertheless, the bill came into the hall today, so I would like to ask Alexandre Alexandrovich to remove this bill from consideration, to elaborate and to re-examine it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u52	I got it. A proposal from the author of the bill on the need to redraft it, based on the circumstances he expressed. In fact, it has to be done a little bit earlier than before the beginning of the discussion, but nevertheless, I think it's a reasonable thought, so I'm asking you to support this proposal, to postpone the consideration of the issue, that is to say, to reject it and send it for further work. Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[11:15:05]] For 370. Decision taken. A draft Law amending article 69 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. According to Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u53	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! This law is discussed twice in the session room. For the first time, because of political cataclyses, he was not voted in the session hall. After that, the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine addressed the Constitutional Court of Ukraine precisely with regard to the interpretation of article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. That's what this is about. Since September 1, 2001, the new Criminal Code has become effective and has been divided into four categories: light gravity, moderate gravity, serious crimes, and especially serious crimes. Thus, article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for the possibility of applying the lowest sentence prescribed by law for particularly serious crimes, heavy and moderate. And it does not foresee such a possibility to commit crimes of small gravity. The Constitutional Court explained that this was a violation of the Constitution and the ideology of criminal law. Thus, this law adds that punishment from the lowest limit can also be applied to crimes of minor gravity. There is no reference to this law. The main scientific and expert office expressed the wish that we might wait for a new Code of Criminal Procedure to be adopted, and then we'll put it into the Code. This has nothing to do with the standards of the process. And I would ask you from me and on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" to support the law in the first reading and in general. This is also the requirement of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to bring legislation into line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u54	Is there a question for Vladimir Romanovich? Prince, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u55	Vladimir Romanovich, I fully support you and I think we should support this bill. But how do you feel about the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is calling attention to what is similar, a more extensive bill amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes on the humanization of criminal legislation? Do you consider them appropriate and perhaps consider them in general, or do they have nothing to do with each other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u56	Whatever the case, I wouldn't say so, but today citizens are being tried for both serious crimes and crimes of minor gravity. Then, to those who have committed more serious crimes, mitigation is prohibited. That's one thing. And second, second question. I'm the head of a working group working on the new Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which was adopted in the first reading, but today the National Commission on Democracy is working on a new Criminal Procedure Code. This is another question they have or are not entitled to, but I see that the end of the writing of this code will not be, so I would ask today to bring article 69 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine into line with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u57	The question is still before Vladimir Romanovich? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u59	Anyone who would like to make a statement on this matter, I ask you to sign up for factions. Please record from factions. Next entry from the MPs is individual. Please. Nine minutes. The starcher has a word from "Our Ukraine." He's got the Juliusman from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko. Oil, please. Who? What's the matter? All right, from the Oneshuk faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u60	Mikola Oneschuk, "Our Ukraine" faction, a party of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Clearly, respectable colleagues understand the situation clearly enough. Our colleague, the National MP, has entered into a legislative initiative aimed at bringing our criminal material right to the requirements of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. More specifically, we are humanizing our criminal trial and law, referring to the application of the same standard in terms of the possibility of Ukrainian courts in criminal matters to apply the lower-level penalty imposed by the Criminal Code, particularly when it comes to crimes of a minor social nature, I mean, a negative impact on society. So the legislative initiative itself is worth supporting, it can be voted on, by the way, on the basis and in general, because in the conclusions of experts, i.e. the Scientific and Experimental Authority, it's not actually expressed enough on this point, I mean, significant remarks. By the way, not all Ukrainian legislation has been brought into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I think that the parliament of today's convening will scrutinize this very situation, and, as I know, including the faction “Our Ukraine” is preparing a series of bills aimed at bringing the law into line with the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, we have a situation, as we just did, a bill that we discussed: the fulfilment of the constitutional requirement. Because citizens who are convicted of minor crimes or whose cases are tried in court should be subject to the same standard, I mean, the standard of a punishing sword on the part of the State, as well as those who have committed crimes of moderate gravity or even severe. Thus, the faction “Our Ukraine” asks for support for this bill as one that, as we have already talked about today, humanizes our national criminal legislation and is an attempt to bring the Criminal Code into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u61	Please, Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Revoslav Olijnik, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". The faction supports the proposed bill. Well, first of all, because he's absolutely right in fact, and second of all, I'd like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that this bill is being passed by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But for today, I would like to support the previous speaker. Today, this is far from the only decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that strongly recommends that changes be made and that legislation be brought into line, particularly in criminal proceedings, with criminal law. Unfortunately, though, they are not being implemented or implemented during not only 2004 but also much earlier than in 2001, and since 2002. And actually, this situation can't be normal because delaying to comply with the Constitution, the more implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the part of, well, I'm sorry, the legislative body, it produces absolutely negative consequences and creates problems in applying the laws where they apply. So we propose to support this bill, both on the basis and as a whole. Similarly, note that there are still decisions of the Constitutional Courts that need to be implemented and brought into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Portnov has the word. You want out of here, don't you? Well, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u64	Andrey Portnow, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. We also support this bill in that, in fact, a number of questions have arisen regarding the use of lower - size sanctions and responsibilities. So we ask you to support this bill and bring it into line with the universal standards and decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u65	Thank you. The proposal was actually the only one to pass this law. In fact, accept it definitively as a document approved by the Supreme Council. So by procedure, I put to the vote first in the first reading. Please accept it as a base. [[11:26:27]] For-187 Thank you. Wait, I don't get it. There were no objections. We haven't been able to vote. Then who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please? Wait, we have to get back to the vote, or I'm rejecting this simple law. Well, I don't understand the coordinator of one faction. [[11:26:58]] For 204 Let's go back to voting, and then let's define by voting. Vote on the procedure – go back to the vote. Please. [[11:27:27]] For 223 The decision is not made. There was an offer, it wasn't made in the rostrum to consider this bill along with a government project that was also prepared to be considered together. Well, we're going out. I then put to the vote the proposal to re-read the question. Please support. [[11:28:03]] For 388 With motive? Mikola Vasilovich. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u66	Dear colleagues. Dear Head, thank you for giving us the opportunity to speak from the rostrum. We would ask our colleagues, and this is very important, because there is a direct broadcast on the radio of the results of the discussion of important bills, so that those factions that have motives not to support the bill try to express their position publicly. To allow, first of all, a more thorough discussion and motivation that is not supported by the bill. Because today the session room was just puzzled that there was no objection to the bill in question when there were positive conclusions from experts, experts, government positions, by the way, it was presented here today in the session room. And national MPs don't vote. I don't think it suits us at all as a parliament, and it doesn't fit the basics of our activities as public policy. That's the first one. And on the occasion, your honorary colleagues, unfortunately, we have a practice where some of the bills are being taken off the table right in the session room. It's not enough that we're going to work in this way ineffectively, because we can't look at bills that aren't included in the agenda today. That's why we asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u67	Good remarks are quite correct in not making comments before voting those who abstained. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u68	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. There is a government bill on this issue. So we suggest that we turn it back into a rereading procedure, merge it with a government bill, and submit it to the Supreme Council for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u69	I see. Mikola Vasilovich, give it to me. Yes, please. I'm asking you to put to the vote the motion to put the question on the table first again, to go back to work on the first reading, right? For review. Is it done? Yeah. No, it's not. I'm sorry, I got a little mutilated. I forgot we already voted. So please, this was for the reasons of the vote. Now we're looking at questions that were previously not supported and for whoever's coming back to them, you have them in order of the day. Please, I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. [[11:31:59]] For 325 325 deputies support this proposal. Therefore, the first question is the Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Preparation for Ukraine's Introduction to the World Trade Organization, Problems and Prospects" to be held on October 4th. Reported to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Platinum Vladimir Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Sir, honourable national deputies, considering that one of the most important tasks facing our nation is the urgent need to resolve the issue of a coherent position regarding the assessments, conditions and mechanisms for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization and its possible consequences. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings was prepared on "The State of Preparation for Ukraine's Introduction to the World Trade Organization, Problems and Prospects". Registration number 2038 from September 4, 2006. The draft decree is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 4 October of this year, inviting representatives of central and local executive bodies, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, leading research institutions and organizations, banking institutions, international financial institutions, business leaders, representatives of the public. In view of the long-standing debate in the Ukrainian community on this issue, which has gained a mixed political resonance, Parliament cannot be left out of the way in addressing urgent issues to ensure agreed proposals and mechanisms for Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization. As a result of the proposed hearings, there are well-founded systemic, constructive proposals that will allow for a proper assessment of all the benefits and disadvantages of this extremely responsible step — the introduction to the World Trade Organization. Therefore, I would like to support the draft decision on holding parliamentary hearings in 2006 at the highest level in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And for more careful preparation, please assign a hearing on October 18th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u71	Is there a question for Vladimir Mikhailovich? Jaroslav Suhi wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you a question as the head of the profiling committee and a person who has been in this session hall for more than a year to harmonize Ukraine's economic laws with European norms. The main problem is water-splitting, because in the political community and in this sessional room, the question is: is it a betrayal of national economic interests, or is it a gain of preferences? Please tell me if you would like to be the main organizer of these parliamentary hearings to prepare at least a comparative table for parliamentary hearings. So what we gain and what we lose. Because we need to make such decisions in advance. You can't think of it as normal when groups of oil traders, grain traders, metallurgy were repeatedly lobbyed in this session hall, and it looked like it was an entrance to the SOTA. This has nothing to do with entering the WTO. What will be the very pattern for the consideration of parliamentary hearings?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Jaroslav. I believe that 149 countries are now members of the World Trade Organization. More than 96 percent of the production is the global volume of these countries. And only some to this day are not members of the WTO - among them Ukraine. I think it would be civilized to look at all the pros and cons. I am not in favor of running into the WTO today, no matter how it turns out on our manufacturer. That is why we propose, at the level that I have stressed, to hold a hearing here in the session hall and invite all the experts of the state to say both "for" and "against". After that, we will draw conclusions and make decisions. My personal position has not changed. I am in favour of Ukraine today being a member of the WTO, but all the protocols that are signed bilaterally must be signed, signed and signed from the position of our State, in order to protect our manufacturer. This is possible in terms of introduction, under special conditions, and the Ministry of Economics will carry out parliamentary hearings in this direction. Now we're going to analyze 48 protocols that already exist. And I'll draw the conclusions from this rostrum if you let me do it today. We're invited to committee hearings, but I thank you very much for the respect of the Committee on Economic Policy, but I'm asking at the state level that this is more important for the State to resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u74	Are there any other questions to Vladimir Mikhailovich? Yes. Please, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Region Party, Zitomirsk. Dear reporter! I do not object to having another parliamentary hearing. But I remember that twice there were parliamentary hearings in this room about the problems of preparing and joining the WTO. I'm talking about quality. What should we now request to prepare the materials, the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers? How do we get to the highest level so that it's really qualitative, responsible, and so that we can have the most active part, and then there's a more subtle and effective work in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Let me tell you a little secret. We're working with Kabmin, we're working on materials in hopes that the hall will support these hearings, and I guarantee you they'll be at the highest level. I was a participant in two previous hearings, they were urgent for that period, but today there is one step left that we are with you, and I think that the composition of this Parliament will decide this step towards supporting Ukraine's accession to the WTO. The Committee guarantees the highest level of material preparation with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committees of the Supreme Council, the public, and scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u77	Jaroslav Kenzior asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u78	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, indeed, has just been reminded by Deputy Rybuk that we have already held several parliamentary hearings on this subject. And today, when the preparation process is literally on the finish line, is there any point in having another hearing? Now we should just go into this international structure and join this international organization as a fact. I think I'm worried, it even sounded to you today that we need to review some of the protocols that have been signed a long time ago, by which States, and that we don't bury Ukraine's entry into the International Trade Organization at those hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jaroslav, I would like to say immediately that the Economic Policy Committee's intention is to express the opinion of the Supreme Council and to do everything possible by the new year to make Ukraine a member of the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u80	I made a mistake: I had to log in and set the rules. But two more questions and that's it. Eugene Kirilchuk, and then Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear reporter! Eugene Kirilchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. You remember because you were a member of the previous vocation, which was very much discussed in the Hall at the premiere of Yulia Timoshenko. There were 12 drafts here, eight of which I think were supported by the hall. The most heated discussion was the draft legislation that applied to the agro-industrial complex, and it was not brought to an end. So, do you know what drafts and how many of them have to be put into the hall and how long will it take to process them here in order to get there at a certain time, as they say, to join the WTO?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u82	Thank you very much, colleague! At the time that you mentioned, I was a member of a parliamentary-government group that drafted these bills and progressively advanced to the WTO. So I remember this moment very well. Today, there are 17 such bills under the Economic Policy Committee. Now, I think listening will be an incentive to expedite their consideration in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the meetings of the Supreme Council. To that end, too, I think parliamentary hearings will be very important to speed up these events.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u83	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Reporter! We all remember how Ukraine’s foreign minister almost flew at night to support the revolution in Kyrgyzstan. For this reason, Kyrgyzstan is not signing us a treaty and is stopping our process of joining the WTO. Do you think that the parliamentary hearings in Ukraine on this subject will help to influence the thinking of the leaders of Kyrgyzstan who would finally stop stopping our introduction to the World Trade Organization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u85	Thank you so much for asking. If such hearings take place, we will sign such a letter, I will ask the head of the Supreme Council to do so, I will sign as the head of the profiling committee to our friends of the Kyrgyz people with it. with the proposal that Parliament supports and requests to support the signing of a bilateral treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u86	To our friends of the Kirghiz, to be exact. Yeah? Thank you. I. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u87	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u88	Who do I want to share in this discussion? Is there a need to discuss it? Is it? Then please sign in. From factions. Richchuk. Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk Shubku is passing on the question. Please. Vitaly Yakovich, speak up. You can get out of the rostrum, you can get out of the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u89	Thank you. A fast, socialist faction. Alexander Alexanderovich, well you know that today's reform that is going on is political in terms of the already existing principles that Parliament has, the changes that we have and so forth today are the very issues that we need to discuss, that is, if today someone is afraid that the WTO will bring this into parliament and that some views will change, the terms of entry into the WTO may change, he may not be afraid because there is a general trend, but this general trend should certainly be considered at Parliament's meeting in connection with the functions that I have called. So I'm saving time for today's meeting and consideration. questions, I think we absolutely need this and nothing here to fear that something parliament will accept is not that Ukraine will not join the WTO. More than 160 countries have joined the WTO, and Ukraine has no place to look. So there's nothing to be afraid of. And to determine the criteria, just how Parliament will influence it, I think we need to consider this issue at the hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u90	Thank you. From the Party of the Regions Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I am primarily addressing those Ukrainian national deputies who remember the battalions here, near this rostrum, around the rostrum and in the Presidium, when I came to block the consideration of bills that would aim to establish prospects for Ukraine's entry into or accession to the World Trade Organization Treaty. What was the problem, in fact, and what was at the heart of that intense discussion, which you often remember, snorkeled outside this room, and went out to those birds who came here? The first problem is that society, in general, does not have clear and clear information to this day. Pluses and minuses for the Ukrainian economy. We see that we now have difficult transformational processes of transition to market principles. How do these transformation processes without compensatory measures for Ukraine in the example, well, about two, three, or four, or how many years there, lead to what we're going to get pluses for the economy? One more. You can hear a lot about this right now, but, you see, this thesis is now over, that we need to run, immediately, quickly join the WTO and get ahead, so Russia, because when Russia comes, it's going to dictate to us. We are different states, we have different economies, and we have different claims to us and to Russia. But that's exactly what I'd like to ask everyone. We have the leftovers, we have a certain economy, we have the specifics of this economy, we have a certain specificity of social protection and social insurance. We can't sacrifice those basic sectors of the people's agriculture on the occasion of a sort of entrance to the SOTA. Remember here when I turned off the Litwin microphone, and I had to scream from the megaphone in the hall that I couldn't allow zero rates to take out the sunflower, because it had nothing to do with the World Trade Organization. You can't let a zero bet on a metal scrapper. Why is the World Trade Organization here? And what's our planning for cars and shopping abroad? I mean, I'm asking very much that we have these parliamentary hearings under the flag of protecting a national producer, protecting national economic interests, using the World Trade Organization to set up jobs, creating new jobs, raising the living standards of our citizens, not because someone is somewhere, or on the field, or on a football field, or on a drunken bench, and I promised that we would be in the WTO, whether we're not in the WTO. We'll be there. And we are the Ukrainian national deputies who are obliged to vote in favour of the basic sectors of the national economy. I hope that this is the slogan behind which parliamentary hearings will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u92	Well said, I think it's convincing. Who's going to be on the block of Yulia Timoshenko? Chewchuk is on file, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u93	The honourable head, the honourable colleagues, has already shown today that there are so many questions and doubts about our fellow national MPs. And even the question was, is it a betrayal of national interests or not? The faction of Yulia Tymoshenko today reviewed Mr. Zaplatinski's initiative. We appreciate such a parliamentary initiative. And I would even like to thank today for his personal position when he clearly said, as head of the committee on the need for our state to join the World Trade Organization. And we think that Ukraine has every chance of being the 150th member of this powerful international organization. Therefore, we clearly support parliamentary hearings and hope that most of the questions raised by the deputies will be removed or clarified, because we are all united in one goal: to bring about an economic breakthrough in Ukraine, regardless of the economics. a kind of political opinion. In addition, we urge the deputies to vote and give another opportunity to hear this question from the Parliamentary Chamber, because there is a new interesting practice in the activities of the highest government structures when the government manager declares his position and next week Parliament approves this position, as it did in Brussels on NATO. This reminds us of the Soviet times when approval took place in any thesis that the Secretary-General of the CPRS once expressed. That is why we want it to be the other way around: that we make a conscious logical decision by Parliament, and that the government as the executive body has done what the representatives of the people have defined. That's why we're going to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Mother passes the word Hennadia Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Our discussion reminded me of a similar discussion in October-November 1994 at the National Security and Defence Council. Sergei Grigorovich Osika, then Minister of External Economic Relations, who reported on the matter, swore, that we had completed all the procedures related to the entry into WTO. And that was, indeed, yes. In January, President Kuchma of Ukraine, Osika, I met others in Geneva with the Director-General of the World Trade Organization, Ridgeiro. And he said, all set, come in. We're covered, those supporters of Ukraine's integration into the world structures, we're back in Ukraine, and it's been 1994, figure out how many years. And today we are talking, discussing and speaking, panacea, let's hold the hearing, the next parliamentary hearing, with all due respect to the head of the committee, all the more so that he is a member of our faction, our Ukraine. We still don't think we're having this kind of hearing right now. It's a drag, another drag on Ukraine's entrance to WTO. There are problems. For example, I'm a red-guilty fan, I'm talking to our winemakers -- and Masandra, the Tair Institute, and others. They say that today's entry into the WTO is the death of Ukrainian products, wine products. France destroyed millions of delicacies of wine last year because prices began to fall. France for... wine streams will come to us. So we have to think about how we can protect our really own manufacturer. It seems to me that today the Cabinet of Ministers, considering that it is likely that it will have a different attitude towards integration problems, including the introduction to the WTO, should prepare some kind of help, a normal help so that the ordinary, average citizen of Ukraine is clear that Ukraine will win, that Ukraine will lose. We don't have to lock ourselves in. And not Bishkek today is solving the issue of joining the U.S.S.A. Other geographical capitals at the same time address these issues, and I don't want to call them. We need to hold committee hearings. The 400 - year - old Kinozal is able to attend these hearings beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u96	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. They're not written down anymore. But he was so persuasive of Gennady Josephovich in his arguments that he was quick to ask, What is the matter? Why not, then, in 2004. And obviously the answer to that question, like others, has to be done in this room, the hearing has to be done because it's a matter of social importance. It worries everyone, politicians, and just citizens, and producers, and those who do business. So I think there's no doubt about it. Let's vote on the decision. Do you have a replica? Oh, with motive. Please, Katerinczuk Mikola. Please. Give Katerinchuku the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u97	Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, honourable colleagues, would like to draw your attention to the fact that our faction, in considering this decree, stresses that these parliamentary hearings should be held, but within the framework of the Supreme Council Committee. And they also suggest that your attention be drawn to the second part of this ruling, where the Cabinet of Ministers will prepare and submit to the Supreme Council by September 20 the necessary information and analysis materials. Well, you know that's not possible anymore, so we just need to technically correct and specify another, I think, term. And I would also like to point out that Ukraine has already made its choice with regard to WTO, and we've taken 99% of the road that was needed to make our entry. And so I would not want these hearings to be an effort to review what has already been done. Because each country advocates its own national interests. I think we should learn from the Russians now how they defend their national interests. So I'd like to draw your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u98	Mikola Dmitrovitch, you speak correctly, but here's the detail. It is from the point of view of the need to accept documents for the entry into the WTO that such hearings are proposed. And for that reason, there was an exchange of thoughts on the Conciliation Council, and if part of the hearings are referred to committees, which is absolutely justified, then because it touches all the committees, and because it bothers people, because a lot of the information on this subject is already on the pages of the newspapers, on television, on the radio, and so on. That's why we have to spend the night here. And our task is to actively prepare it, to prepare, say, an active discussion of the problem itself. And it's in the context of "About the state of preparation." In fact, this is a major task for the government, which also understands the need to get into and accelerate the process. So, given your offer, I hope you'll support it. One thing you're asking the right question is about October 18th, a totally acceptable date. It's in our calendar mode. So I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole. You don't deny, in general, the Supreme Council's rulings, please, as of October 18th -- clarification. [[11:58:43]] For-300 A break of 30 minutes is announced. In factions, please make the announcement. Region Party – 176, Block Timoshenko, July Timoshenko – 69, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPU - 32, Communists – 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u99	I'm asking for your attention. Honourable MPs, on September 19, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006, in a multi-mandatory national constituency district, Kozachenka Aleksija Alexiyyyovich, who was included in the election list “Our Ukraine”. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozachenko, Alexiyyovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u100	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Let's say hello to our colleague Alexeiyyovich with a position of responsibility, let me shake your hand, and wish him success in this matter. On September 13th of this year, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26 in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Sklar Vladimir Borisovich, who is included in the election list of the block “Our Ukraine”. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, he is also invited to take an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council. And I invite Vladimir Borisovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u102	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich. Thank you. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Let's go to the Ratifications section. The draft Law on the ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship, registration number 0020, is being complied with. First Deputy Foreign Minister Ogrzyzko Vladimir Stanislavovich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship. The bill is designed to implement the President’s relevant decree of 20 January of this year on a plan of action for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising from its membership in the Council of Europe. Our country signed this convention on July 1, 2003, and we have made appropriate changes to our domestic legislation. This convention sets out the principles and rules that States parties should adhere to in matters of natural persons' citizenship and lays down the basis and legal basis for cooperation between States in this field. The objective of the Council of Europe and the other States that have signed this convention is to achieve a greater link between its members in this particular area. The Convention proclaims the principles of prevention, prohibition of discrimination, and respect for human rights, which legally reside outside the participating State. Joining the convention will contribute to the development of legal principles that apply to citizenship and its implementation in our legislation. This will also provide an opportunity to prevent cases of statelessness and to promote international cooperation by national authorities of different nations. The signing of the convention, the ratification of it is in the national interest of our nation, since it will demonstrate that Ukraine recognizes and respects European law. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship was agreed without notice with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. As a result, the Ministry of Internal Affairs proposes to support the ratification of the said convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, five minutes. Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u106	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u107	Please, it's Terrena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u108	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". The Honorable Reporter, starting with the approval of the Civil Code, has already had several of his papers, you know, right? And the Civil Society Act was liberalized every time. Well, let's say that if there was a tough civil procedure before, you know, a person can now just make a commitment that he's getting out of a country or a country and in Ukraine, you know, he's getting a license, and even for two years he's getting out of a foreign citizenship -- two years. And so, these two years ago, a person has a dual citizenship that is contrary to the fourth article of the Constitution and which is contrary to the Civil Code. What's more, we've got, say, a girl married a foreigner, she's got citizenship there, Ukrainian citizenship stays. Thus, there are now tens of thousands of people in Ukraine. Question: "How many people have dual citizenship in violation of the law?"
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Terrence. These are indeed very complex issues that need to be addressed by appropriate conventions and by our domestic laws. The Ukrainian Citizenship Act, as you know, stipulates that there is only Ukrainian citizenship in Ukraine, but there are cases where an exit from Ukrainian citizenship is allowed. If a Ukrainian citizen resides abroad, he may be concerned about leaving the country. There is a special legal procedure for leaving the country, which lasts up to one year. It is not allowed for a Ukrainian citizen to acquire citizenship of another state if he has not left the Ukrainian citizenship and, working at the Ukrainian Embassy in Austria, we have had cases where the Austrian side has asked us for citizenship, but it has only provided that it will be granted only after the citizen has left the Ukrainian citizenship and this is normal practice. But I agree with you that there are cases where there is actually a dual citizenship, but the convention is just about to make it happen when people are around. When people don't have it. without citizenship, and if there is dual citizenship, their rights must be duly taken into account. There are two cases in Ukrainian legislation: the birth of a child and the marriage, the marriage. So these are already in our legislation, so there's no contradiction to the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u110	Please, Mikhailo Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u111	Please pass the word Shibko Vitalia Jakovlevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u112	Vitaly Shibko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. A fast, socialist faction. As you know, this convention does not necessarily provide for recognition by the member states of multiple citizenship. Yeah? The convention is neutral in the matter of desirability, plurality of citizenship. Yeah? But we have an appropriate law that doesn't allow multiple citizenship. And you know what my question has to do with you? You know, there was a recent referendum in the Transnistrian Republic, and there was a recent picture showing that people were drawn to getting other passports. Did the Ukrainian authorities issue passports to people living in Transnistria today? That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the convention does not oblige any of the countries that signed this convention to introduce plural citizenship. That is, we are not required in any way to have Ukraine put in place an appropriate procedure in its law and act in this way. So I would like, as it were, to calm down in the sense that nothing for Ukraine has changed since the signing of the convention in terms of changing approaches to citizenship. With regard to working with the inhabitants of Transnistria, certainly citizens who are Ukrainians of origin, even though they are nationals of another state, but if they applied to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Embassy, they were helped to obtain Ukrainian citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u115	Once again, however, colleagues point out that this is a violation of the law. They remain citizens of Moldova and have become citizens of Ukraine, contrary to the law that prohibits dual citizenship. Please, Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u116	The point is that in some cases they are not citizens of Moldova because they take a separate position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u117	Right. Mikola Oneschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u118	Dear Volodymira Stanislavovich, I share your point of view that, in fact, we have already harmonised national legislation in this part with the requirements of the convention, and therefore the government, more loyally, the President, by ratifying the act, does not at the same time submit drafts for the implementation of the convention, as provided for. It's about explanations, maybe our colleagues, why we're only considering an instrument of ratification in this case. The following questions apply to you. Under the law itself, Ukraine claims there is a warning in the law, and states that according to article 25, paragraph 1, of the convention, Ukraine excludes chapter seven from the application of the convention. Please, if I may, a few words, what are we talking about in particular?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u119	Thank you, very much for that question, it is indeed very appropriate. It is said that according to the warnings, chapter 7, or military duty in the case of multiple citizenship, is completely excluded from Ukraine’s obligations under this convention. Because we come from the fact that Ukrainian citizens have an appropriate duty to the state: to carry out military service. And so, the convention's provision that there might be exclusions in this case will not work properly for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Human Rights, Nazis and International Relations is Leonid Ivanovich Grach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u121	According to members of the committee, the ratification of the convention will, first of all, create legal grounds for international cooperation in civil matters, prevent discrimination in this area and avoid cases without citizenship. I would like to point out that after Ukraine signed this convention in 2003, work began to bring national legislation on citizenship into line with its provisions. In 2005, amendments were made to the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, which fully conforms to the European Convention on Citizenship. That is to say, there has been a thorough process of preparation for the ratification of this convention. And only after the implementation of civilisation conventions in national legislation has it been ratified. In discussing the bill, the opinions of members of the committee were divided: a part of the people's deputies felt that it was necessary to adopt a bill on ratification of the said convention in the form given by the President of Ukraine, because the current Ukrainian Citizenship Act was brought into line with the European Convention on Citizenship and the ratification of this international act would not entail a change in the order in which Ukraine was admitted to or withdrawn from its citizenship. Another part of the members of the committee, referring to the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, believes that the individual positions of chapter 5 of this convention conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine in particular with article 4, which declares that there is only one citizen in Ukraine. The Scientific and Experimental Authority noted the importance of the ratification of the convention for Ukraine and made some remarks, such as the proposal to supplement the bill with the application of Ukraine to the chapter of the Fifth Convention on Obligation for Our State only in article 15. Taking into account the comments and the outcome of the discussion, the committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship, submitted by the President of Ukraine, is supplemented by another statement: “Ukraine states that chapter 5 of the Convention acts for it in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine”. And with such additions, please accept as law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u122	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u123	I have a question for you. As we see in this law, article 8, paragraph 2, with some warning of ratification, is meant to mean that it is not the text proposed by the convention that should be used, i.e. citizens who are constantly living abroad, but citizens who are constantly living in accordance with Ukrainian legislation that regulates the issue of the departure of citizens abroad. That's the kind of question I have. What about those citizens who have illegally left our Ukraine and who are actually in illegal status abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u124	As they left illegally, they must return legally, and that is all. This convention. This ratification of the European convention of no, in my opinion, has anything to do with the illegal citizen of Ukraine crossing the border and running after it or what? Let him run for his citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u125	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u126	Dear Leonide Ivanovich. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please tell me why that convention signed on behalf of Ukraine in 2003 was issued for the ratification room only in 2006? What were the reasons? And is there an objective explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u127	This question should have been addressed to the rapporteur, Mr. Ogryzka, who represents the President's interests. I don't understand why it took so long.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u128	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Leonide Ivanovich, to me as a recent majority deputy, and I'm sure you will continue to receive complaints from our citizens of Ukraine about the fiber and gravity of legislation, or the imperfection of the practice of government structures in acquiring Ukrainian citizenship, you see. Today, it is not even enough for him to live long in Ukraine and for the children to be born here. So I want to ask you. This European convention refers to people who have left Ukraine. Does your profile committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, have any legislative action to simplify the process of acquiring Ukrainian citizenship for those who live in Ukraine for a long time, their children were born here. But the fib is set up in such a way that, for example, moving there to Georgia, giving up citizenship and so forth, is the tragedy of entire families, especially in the southern part of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u130	This is a good observation, which needs to be considered in practical order, and together, both the MDI, and the IMF, and our committee, to simplify the approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u131	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u132	Dear reporter. I have a pragmatic question for you. Well, almost everyone in Ukraine knows that the vast array of our Ukrainian citizens are abroad, usually in a really illegal situation, they've already touched it. How this convention, whether it's a little bit, even if it's on a lid, let's say it helps these people, that's the first question. And the second. There are many facts that some and, of course, not poor people have spare citizenship other than Ukrainian. And the same Lazarus, you remember, there and so on. As Head of the Human Rights Committee, do you think we should also introduce into our penal code, for example, not just that it is a violation of the law, but that it is a criminal responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u133	First, I think it's both theoretically and practically helping this convention to at least protect the rights of the citizen. Second, well, it's a violation of the Constitution, including. And that's why we have to do a good audit. Something tells me that in this room there may also be those who have dual citizenship and who do not have the right to a mandate, and so on. It takes both MSS and copper to do what they need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. From factions. Yes, now from the deputies. Yes, Ruslan Knazević, “Our Ukraine”. Get ready for Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, indeed, the convention was adopted in 2003 and the fact that the internal procedure, the internal procedure, has always proved to be quite cumbersome and long-lasting, has not allowed it to be readily accepted until we have adopted the final amendments to the citizenship law in 2005. But I'm very happy that in fact the changes that were adopted in 2005, they took fully into account this particular convention that we have the opportunity to talk about today. The point is that I asked the questions that we're talking about today, whether we're going to take into account on the one hand and the situation that we're going to have is absolutely real. We have millions of people who have left illegally and continue to receive citizenship abroad in spite of not leaving our citizenship. But this convention regulates many things to a large extent. And I think that the very right way is to draft the law when we're warning a whole series of conventions that we don't ratify or, more specifically, we don't allow them to be part of Ukraine's domestic legislation. First of all, in Ukraine the principle of a single citizen is in force in accordance with article 4 of the Constitution. And according to this convention, the principle of plurality of citizenship or so-called bipolarism, when a person has the right to citizenship of one or two countries or more countries, is not envisaged for Ukraine. Moreover, I must tell you that there are only two reasons for acquiring such citizenship in this convention. First. This is in the case of a child born in a country where the so - called principle of the law of the ground exists from parents who are citizens of countries where the principle of the law of blood is in force. And the second time a woman or a man is married, or married, or married a citizen of another state, and that state allows what it is in that case to be a dual citizenship. And it's very good that this convention does not foresee a third case that is considered classic in terms of acquisition of citizenship, the so-called case of voluntary naturalization, when a person voluntarily becomes a citizen of another country, if the country permits such acquisition. And there are only three countries that actually allow this possibility. This is Spain, Israel and the Russian Federation. Well, in each case, there's a different argument. In the first two cases, the so - called historical connection occurs, in which case, if there are citizens, Spain or Israel, and they have the opportunity to have dual citizenship without giving up their previous citizenship. As far as Ukraine is concerned. So probably the discussions that we had on the committee during the previous electoral campaign on the possibility of dual citizenship with Russia should be stopped once and for all, as such talks are not allowed internationally. Because in the sense of this convention, citizenship is a stable legal link between a state and a citizen who imposes double duties and rights, both in accordance with national and international law. In this case, for Ukraine, we have now brought exactly what is within us and into external law is that there can't be anything other than one citizen and Ukraine. And finally, the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u136	Basil Bogchuk, the faction of the Socialists, conveys the word of Shibku, please, Vitali. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction. I want to say right now that we're going to be looking at not just this convention today, but other conventions, protocols. And I want to point out once again that these are our obligations. The commitments we have before the Council of Europe, which we certainly have before Europe. So, I think if anyone has any doubts, I want to share how these doubts are removed. The fact is that every convention, every international document, it goes a very long way before it is accepted. And the experts involved in these documents, they go around almost all countries and they go out to one community or another, at this point, they go to the Council of Europe and they study national legislation, they take into account, and then they're already taking into consideration the way that another document is discussed. So I want to say that there can be no doubt as to the need for this convention to be adopted. Like this convention, she must apologize for such a word, since 1963 in the Council of Europe. And two protocols have already been signed. I mean, these protocols have decided on this subject more and more gradually, taking into account national legislation. And here my colleague Knjazević has already mentioned the characteristics of this convention, and I would like to say that, with regard to other possible cases of multiple citizenship, article 15 of this chapter states that the position of this convention does not limit the right of each participating State to establish in its internal law. They preserve or lose citizenship and citizens who acquire or have citizenship of another state or are linked to the acquisition or preservation of their citizenship by refusing or losing another nationality. So once again, I would like to stress: the convention does not provide for compulsory recognition of a multi-national state. The convention is neutral in the question of the desirability of plural citizenship. And I want to say that before that, Ukraine had declared its intentions several times before, and since 1957, when similar documents had been declared, they had been ratified by the Supreme Council of the RSR. So I urge that we vote in favour of this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u138	Victor Taran, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. After him, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the honourable deputy Shibko has just spoken of this as our obligation to sign and ratify the convention. Ratifying the convention is our obligation to Europe. I want to say that of the 47 countries in Europe, only 27 signed it and only 14 ratified it. So we're trying to be ahead of Europe now, so less than a third of us have ratified today. So Europe would have to, let's say, give an example of how it does it. The other one. I'd like to argue with Reverend Vladimir Stanislavovich here. Dear colleagues, what is it? Here's what's going on. The dual citizenship provided for in our law is indeed foreseen when it comes to persons, such as a girl married a foreigner or a child. This is contrary to article four of the Constitution. This is contrary, our law today on dual citizenship de facto does not comply with the Fourth Article Constitution. And if we can still settle this in some way on our own legislation in accordance with the Constitution, then by ratifying the convention, we'll have it fixed forever. We're gonna fix this forever. Is it worth the haste? On the other hand, once again, dear fellow Shibko, you say that there is no plurality in the convention. Chapter five is the so-called “Multiple Citizenship” of this convention, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, as stated by the scientific and expert office. I quote literally: “The Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the individual positions of chapter 5 of this convention are in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 4, which declares that there is only one nationality in Ukraine. I asked a question that today's liberalisation of the citizenship law has led to the fact that today in Ukraine de facto, I haven't received an answer to that question, obviously no one is doing it to find out the exact figures, no one is doing statistics, but today tens if not hundreds of thousands of people already have dual citizenship in Ukraine, and we can only imagine that, with an example, let's say, the Transnistria. And that's why I think it's perfectly logical for me to speak to the chairman of the committee, Leonid Ivanovich Grač, who was talking about what this convention really requires. This is a committee decision and I'd like to support the committee's decision. And this is what the committee head was talking about, that we support the ratification of the convention, but certainly with the addition that Ukraine claims that chapter 5 of the convention only works for it in a part that does not deny the Constitution of Ukraine and with such a complement to the adoption of the law as a whole. This is the position of our faction, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u140	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Grand Colleagues, the European Convention on Citizenship of 1997 also foresees the existence of multiple citizenship and this is described in chapter 5. But what we are offered for ratification of the discussion may not only be in relation to article 15 but also in relation to article 14, which clearly states that cases of dual citizenship apply only to two cases. The first experience is that of children born from parents who are citizens of different countries. But according to the Citizenship Act, when these children reach the age of 18, they have the right to choose. If they choose Ukrainian citizenship, then they must theoretically give up citizenship of another country in order not to violate the Constitution. The other one. This is a case where dual citizenship is dependent. It comes as a result of marriage when such a moment is proposed. Indeed, our faction, our political power, stands up and supports the expansion of human rights, including the right to dual citizenship. But as long as we have in the Constitution that we have only one citizenship, we stand for the Constitution. As a result, and for the future to be free from these problems, it would be advisable for us to have the primacy of international law at the level of the Constitution, since article 9 of the Constitution states that only those conventions that do not conflict with the Constitution can be ratified by the Supreme Council. So everything is equal, even if there are two cases involving children, but it is resolved, what is involved in marriage is not yet resolved today. Therefore, it would be appropriate to ratify this convention, but with a proposal in that part that is not contrary to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention. And to our faction is to ratify this convention. And in the future, to stand up for the primacy of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u142	The Stoneman gives the word to Oleg Belarus. He's got Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens! Our discussion shows that the question that is now on the agenda is not formal at all; it is a function of consular service. The question of citizenship is a fundamental question of statehood, of sovereignty. The state is citizens, their population, their connections, their responsibility. Sovereignty is borderline. For our young nation today, the issue of citizenship and statehood and borders is extremely acute. It is enough to say that to this day, Ukraine has no metre of multithousand - mile [m] borders demarcated. The large sectors of our State border are not even delimited. About seven million citizens have become so-called display persons, or displaced persons who have gone abroad illegally as weekly tourists and have not returned. And this is a huge loss for Ukraine. Deeper down, it's a question of the competitiveness of our society. Lord Bruce George, who was here, who was president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, jokingly said at the session: “Great Britain is a very bad country. We have no air conditioner, it's raining all the time. Our women are just not beautiful. We're out of order. But why do you all go to our country and seek citizenship?" And so should we. If we can see that our neighbors are in charge of plural citizenship, it is a long - term strategy, a strategy for the inclusion of skilled labour and for the enhancement of greatness and power. Even if it is called a soft empire. Our nation should take this more seriously and therefore ratify this convention in time. Russia has long ratified and used the standards of this convention. I have no doubt that even after ratifying the warning regarding article 5, we have the right to such a warning, this convention will serve as an order in Ukrainian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u144	Yuri Miroshnichenko. Behind him is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would immediately like to address all the national MPs with a call to support the ratification of this convention and I can explain my position. And this is: first, the need for such ratification stems from the need to harmonize national legislation in part of citizenship so that those countries that have joined this convention have the same, clear rules of exit. And this convention deals with extremely important issues. This is a question, for example, that comes out of multiple citizenship, or if there is multiple citizenship, how it is acquired, what order and so forth; this is a question of military commitment if such plural citizenship is foreseen; these are problems that arise from migration processes that occur in Europe in particular. And that's why we have to live by the rules that we have today, in fact, developed and introduced leading lawyers in Europe who are offering us to join this convention. What's the big deal? And what's important is that, in fact, this whole order that the convention provides, it's already being implemented into national legislation in a part of the Citizenship Act that's already been passed, and the previous speakers have spoken. At the same time, I want to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the fact that we have a warning. That is, those articles, those provisions of the convention that Ukraine does not have to implement. And the first important aspect is how we get out of citizenship. We're talking about what's in the part. in article 8, paragraph 2, we have a specific feature that provides for such an editorial as “the citizens of Ukraine who are constantly living abroad, according to national legislation that regulates the issue of the departure of Ukrainian citizens abroad. [[I mean, not just those who live abroad, but also those who live there under national law.]] Next, it's very important, it's a question of plural citizenship. We're excluded as such. And it raises the issue of military duty in the case of multiple citizenship. I mean, those remarks, those warnings that the committee is offering, I think we need to consider and ratify this convention. Thank you for your attention. I invite you to ratify with caution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u146	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u147	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill proposes to ratify the European Convention on Citizenship, which was signed on behalf of Ukraine on July 1, 2003. The drafting of the law requires the establishment of principles and rules relating to the citizenship of natural persons, respect for family life, and the prevention of discrimination in matters relating to citizenship. The ratification of this convention foresees that a Ukrainian citizen who, according to the current legislation of Ukraine, is in a position to live abroad permanently may withdraw from Ukrainian citizenship at his own expense. As the issue of the departure of Ukrainian citizens abroad is not subject to the regulation of the Ukrainian Nationality Act. The definition of Ukrainian citizens living abroad is governed by the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Departure from Ukraine and the Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens and by the legal and regulatory acts issued to implement this law. Joining the convention will prevent cases without citizenship and promote international cooperation between national authorities dealing with citizenship issues, broadening the legal framework on citizenship issues, in relations with States, members of the Council of Europe and other participating states. The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other central executive bodies will act as responsible executive bodies to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the said convention. And another thesis. Joining the convention does not require financial costs from Ukraine. Please support the law on ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u148	Question completed. All who wanted to speak were given that opportunity. Let's be clear. But before that, do I want to go to Vladimir Stanislavovich, or do the ministry agree with the committee's proposal to remove the fifth chapter? From the place, you have a microphone, please. Ukraine claims that chapter 5 of the convention works for it in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that the president is the author of the legislative initiative. If there is no agreement, we can only accept it in the first reading and work for the second. If we agree, we can accept it as an editorial without the President's veto. That's why I'm calling the reporter. Yes, please, Vladimir Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u149	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pay attention to two moments. First, from the preamble, where it is said that, while noting the different approaches of States to the question of multiple citizenship, and recognizing that each State can freely determine the consequences in its domestic right of acquiring its nationality or belonging to another nationality and beyond the text, as well as article 15 of Chapter 5, which refers to the fact that the provisions of this convention do not limit the right of each State party to establish its own internal State right: (a) to preserve or lose the citizenship of its citizens who acquire or have the citizenship of another State; and (b) to acquire or preserve its citizenship with the refusal or loss of another nationality. In this connection, I would like to point out that we already have a definition in the law that we have one Ukrainian citizenship and that the convention does not provide that we are obliged to introduce multiple citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Leonid Ivanovich, how does the committee feel? Are we supporting the President's project? Player microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u151	It was said that the Committee had taken a decision. Of course, no one is going to cancel the committee's decision today. But the Committee's decision is to add a statement to this draft law, where the primacy of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding citizenship and everything else and nothing else is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u152	Yes. You don't know how to do it, just follow the rules. Yes, we will. That's why I'm putting the vote to a vote, and I'm putting the vote on the basis of the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship as drafted by the President. [[13:16:34]] For 405 Can we take the whole thing? Okay. I am voting on the adoption of the European Convention on Civility Act, registration number 0020, submitted by the President, please vote. [[13:17:06]] For 411 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I ask those who are concerned about plural citizenship to quote the relevant articles of the convention, which say that each state has the right to govern its internal legislation on this issue. And we don't just have the law. We have a fourth article of the Constitution. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Undersea Cultural Heritage is being complied with. Registration number 0026. Lichovy Igor Dmitrovitch, Minister of Culture and Tourism, reports. Get ready for Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, why don't we start with some questions? If you have any questions, please register with the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u154	Igor Dmitrovich, come on, I think everyone understands that this is a good thing. If someone doesn't understand something, he'll ask you a question. Please, five minutes, Oily. Oil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u155	Please give Tomenko to Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u156	Turn on Tomenka's mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, honourable reporters, here's the idea of good, there's no doubt of any. The only problem? We know that serious work has just begun on the register of cultural monuments, cultural heritage, and, I think, this is a special area, like an underwater cultural heritage. I have doubts that we in Ukraine have accurate information, but where we have those monuments under water. Whether we were doing a job to register this part, to arrange it so that we could understand what we were protecting and whether it was planned to do if it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u158	The important national MPs, the fact that technical progress is very much involved in underwater monuments, such as without permission from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the central executive body 19, are estimated to be doing this work, thus causing damage to underwater cultural heritage. I think that after the convention's ratification, we will activate this work and significantly improve it. You can't talk about a full register. No state has a full register, since the objects that can be transferred to the memorial category are constantly opened.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u159	Please, Vladimir Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u160	Tkachenko, the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" faction. And what you did, if ratified, would have to do all of that. Do you want to tell me whether these costs are foreseen for this program?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u161	The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has a national heritage service, and there is no need for additional funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u162	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u163	Thank you. Igor Dmitrovich, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye For Zaporozhye, for Dnipropetrovska, as for other regions, where under the waters of Dnipra or at the bottom of artificial reservoirs, ratification of the underwater cultural heritage convention is of the utmost importance. Since the State will now be forced to carry out international obligations in a more meaningful way to protect an inheritance. But please tell me how the minister is qualified in this field, whether it provides for the Ministry of Culture, or provides for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to introduce the necessary legislative acts in order to fill this convention with concrete and real meaning, which would guarantee Ukraine's inescapable compliance with the obligations it now assumes in front of the world, because these are acquisitions that are there at the bottom of our rivers and lakes and seas, which are the acquisitions of the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u164	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is working with the Supreme Council’s profile committee to amend the Act on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage. And without waiting for the ratification of the convention, certain articles have already been prepared, which essentially rely on the convention itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u165	Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u166	I beg you to give John Boko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Minister! You know, Uncle Cicero said, "Nothing in the world blooms forever." And so the underwater heritage, unfortunately, is not forever. How can a person born at the bottom of a handicrafted sea who has seen things that no one will ever see again, including historic villages, ask you: “What means and ways does the State have, in particular, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, to protect the real, to protect the underwater heritage if we cannot give advice to the earthly heritage? Sign the convention, of course, is easier, but how do you really do it, how do you physically do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u168	Dear John Sidorovich! To be done physically by improving the financing of conservation and museums subordinated to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, as well as to local executive authorities. I don't think signing the convention will change vectors from ground to submarine. This should be done in parallel. Only by funding and sorting. And then I want to draw attention to what I've said briefly: now quite a lot of organizations run, do, say, metal production at the bottom of the sea or at the bottom of freshwater water. And they consider monuments to be the only object to fill out their financial problems. We have to put a stop to that. Amendments will also be made to the Criminal Code, other laws and regulations that will prevent us from carrying out work without control on what we call objects of cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u169	Thank you, sit down, Igor Dmitrovitch. Javrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, opinion of the committee Vladimir Alexandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u170	Vladimir Yavorowski is head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I think the question is clear to everyone. And I'm here to support John Boko, who said exactly that we didn't actually put order on the ground today, on the ground, on what we see. But I'd just like to remind you that when we passed a bill on the protection of cultural monuments, honestly, then none of us thought that we still had to look there and under water and that in the national shelf, and we're a maritime state, we have a few seas, we have big rivers. What's more, we have here, too, a huge disaster, if you want, even a cultural tragedy: it's our sunken giant arrays, where the foundations of the old churches have gone under water, and who is on these artificial seas, knows how this sea dumps both human bones and skulls, who knows what age and what culture it is. Because of this, it seems to me that the ratification of this convention, which is offered to us by the fat that is satisfied with the life of Europe through UNESCO, means that the organization of the United Nations is simply complementing our legislation and that we are not actually going to need to do it anymore. I understand perfectly that there is the biggest problem today, because there are words everywhere “within the limits of the funding that there is”. So with this opportunity and standing here today in this highest rostrum of our Ukrainian state, I would just like to remind myself once again, in the world, it's long accepted that the level of financing of culture, cultural heritage and living culture, the level, that figure, that percentage of gross national product, can always be very clear and killerly characterized by the level of culture of the ruling state. So I want to remind you of just the killer numbers, let people hear about what the Secretariat of the President of our country is, these are the services that the President really needs, the services that help him there and that sort of thing. There was about 600 behind Kuchma, and now it might be a little bit smaller, there might be something like that, but now it's in the budget -- I emphasize -- 1 billion 800 million dollars. And for all the Ukrainian culture we have, the culture of the great nation in the center of Europe is just 800 million. [[Do Not Be Afraid]] Exactly the same number goes for our own government that we have today. Because of where this is all going, and I'm going to be trying to talk about our budget, and I really want you to support me in this, by throwing away any political emotion and all that kind of stuff, take some money. Let's say there's at least 100 million people taken off the President's office or secretariat, something to take away from the government and still help our culture, because our minister has already reported here. We are in such a situation today that the Kiev-Pecher Lavre is the pearl of the world, not just a European, a world heritage, today is being built by offices, houses. Without any permission, by the way. And we're on the verge of what we're just, let's say, the same Chinese Caver Lavre, behind which is the colossal, huge story of our nation, can just throw us out of this European register. Something like this can happen only in a softer way. In a milder version it happens, let's say, in the same "Sofia" and so on. These are the colossal problems that have come upon us today. It's a good thing it's here in Baturin right now, let's say that palace of Rosemovski, which for so many years -- there were goats jumping on it. It is good that the question of Hortica and so forth is being raised today. But once again, society, I just want to remind you that the most important thing that every nation has is culture. We will not overwhelm the Japanese with televisions of the “Electron” factory, which, by the way, is gone; we will not marry the Germans with our humpbacks and such, but our spiritual face, our culture is amazing, the Americans and we have not dreamed of what we have today in our heritage! And if it's still good to organize tourism in the best sense, and we're going to redecorate this budget, because there's a lot of graphs going on tourism to build some routes, there's a dozen million going. It's better for real tourism to allocate that money. As a result, I am convinced that it is necessary to ratify this convention, it is submitted by the President. No one's denying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u171	Thank you. What does the writer’s talent mean? He didn't say anything about an underwater culture! Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? Yes. Quickly, please, the microphone is out of place. It is now the head of the International Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u172	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to emphasize that, well, as always, this convention is in the interests of Ukraine. And there was a lot of evidence of necessity. But there are some warnings and comments that need to be commented on today. Since the name: the central authority of executive authority in the area of cultural heritage protection – can be changed – and this can be confirmed today by our distinguished minister, according to the standards of design technology – is such a word, we propose in the bill to determine that the competent authority on which the mandate is based under article 22 of the convention is the central authority of executive authority in the area of cultural heritage protection. This is done so that we do not twist later when we change something and then we start to change what is involved in our warnings to the convention. Uh, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, then there is a bill in the Law that competent authorities rely on, according to article 22 of the Convention, is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. It is proposed to write: “It is the central authority of the executive authority on which it relies, in whose knowledge there is the issue of culture and tourism.” There's no objection, is there? We agree, then, with this addition, I view adoption as a whole, as the Law, of the Ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. Registration number 0026. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u174	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, see how your address has worked, work enough. [[13:31:33]] For 408 The law is passed. So we ratified the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe, registration number 0036, is under consideration. Reporter of the appointed First Deputy Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing - Berkut Anatoly Vševodovitch. If there's no objection, let's do it the same way. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, five minutes. Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u175	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. I have this question for the rapporteur: how does the position of the concept relate to our current legislation, more faithfully, to the convention, of course, in relation to our current legislation in this area? So let's say that we're privatizing cultural heritage objects, the more architectural cultural heritage is forbidden. They are privately owned in Europe. Please explain whether this will affect the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u176	It will also have a positive effect. You know what we've just prepared, together with the Ministry of Culture, is a list of national and local monuments that can be privatized. And that's the position that we want it to be, it's completely consistent with the positions that this convention provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u177	Hello, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u178	Please ask a practical question: Is there something going to be rebuilt this year, or is it not? How does this budget provide?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u179	It's going to start this year, and the draft budget you've either got or you're going to get in the near future, for the Kiev-Pecher laurel, there's 12.5 million before the work is done. As far as this year is concerned, it is the financing of the work that is linked to plumbing and an emergency that is well - known and on the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u180	The widow of Gennady, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! This is indeed a very important convention, and the fact that we ratify it puts additional commitments on us. But the question is, are we going to be celebrating the 65th anniversary of Baba Jar, or are we going to do something like this, a museum, something like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u182	Regarding Baba’s Yar, not only is it planned, but the documentation, on the one hand, has been developed since Soviet times in that area. As for what is planned today, sketches are now being developed to provide both museum complexes and complexes that would allow appropriate political and public action.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u183	Philindash Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Anatoly the Almighty! Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. Please tell me. Indeed, we will support this convention, it is necessary. Which is exactly what it might be like to step up our legislation, because right now we see that Lavra is just the tip of the iceberg. And if such an object, a symbol of Ukraine, an object of UNESCO and so forth, is being destroyed, what to say in areas where hundreds of thousands of monuments are in a terrible state, regardless of existing legislation. What will the convention add to what protection measures that can preserve these monuments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u185	I want to say that in that speech that I prepared there for five minutes, there was this thesis that touched the situation, if you're referring to the situation that happened in the building of the historic center of Lviv. This is exactly the warning that requires us to join this convention. Because joining this convention will move us and will move us to develop in the State a law on the protection of an architectural heritage. You know we have the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. But the architectural heritage has its own specifics. And the government has now begun to develop such a draft law. And we have a common agreement with the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, we have such an agreement that in December we will already consider such a bill. That is to say, as we join this convention, we are making even more commitments, and most importantly, we are under an obligation to improve the legal arrangements for the effective use of architectural heritage monuments, which should be fully in line with European legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u186	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u187	Thank you. I'm an excellent reporter. I'd like to ask you a question like that. What central authorities will be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of this convention? And why am I asking that question? Everyone is now aware of the incident in Chernivka, when the garrison’s officers ’ house is a monument to architectural art and is also a national acquisition of the Romanian community of Ukraine and is now included in the list of objects subject to alienation. That's the question. Who Will Answer? Of course, it has to be ratified. But it's not going to be another piece of paper, it's going to be a plus, and it's going to be like it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u188	Well, I want to be, well, as they say, consistent with what I said before. Of course, it is not a paper, of course, a document that will oblige us to act accordingly. If you're talking about who's going to answer, you all know that there's a law on protection of cultural heritage that says that there should be a single body in the state that cares about cultural heritage, and we know in practice that we have two organs that care: Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Construction. We think that at the time of the adoption of the Act on the Protection of Architectural Heritage, we will put points above “and”. It's a little bit different things in general, cultural heritage and architectural heritage. And so, of course, this law, once again, let's rule out situations where there are two hosts in one house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u189	Yes, have a seat, please. No, we'll listen to Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, because the committee has observations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u190	On the committee, I'm sorry, there's no comment, but I want to start, I'll take two minutes with you, from what Anatoly started, from where Anatoly's finished. You're all the questions that my colleagues have asked him about culture and he answered these questions, I'm sorry, he only answered these questions because he has a broad perspective and he's always working with Minculture, because the body that actually cares is in Minculture, and the body that rebuilds is in Minbud. So I hope that if we ratify this convention, then we will have to accept the position that it is the only organ. And secondly, we're going to find out with you that with these small costs we're building that we're devoting to architecture. You forgive me, but when we analyze this, they're not enough, I agree with my colleague, he's a more experienced man than I am, Vladimir Yavorowski. But when you look at it, it's at the cost of our architecture, it's the cost of reconstruction, or it's at the same level as it is, or it's shrinking. And most of the money in this ingredient is going to eat. So saying that we're restoring something at a better rate is wrong. So I hope that the convention, which will be adopted back in the year 85, will ratify it, and it will really help us not only in the matter of what it will be easier to offer. monuments of architecture to world or European lists Even more so, they will encourage tourism in Ukraine. And it will help us to put an end to the mess we now have in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u191	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich, I didn't say by chance that you had a note, because the committee recommends that you accept it only on the first reading. So I'd like to hear some arguments about whether we can accept it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u192	We have considered this question. This is the first time there's been a warning from science management. And really after that, we recommended it in the first reading. When we discussed these issues together, there is no such warning as to exclude paragraphs C and D.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u193	Okay. Thank you. Shall we vote? Let's write it down for a minute. Anybody wants a minute. From place to minute, huh? Well, what do they want me to do? Please sign up. Who wants to, because I can see if it's not a forest of hands, it is. Give me five minutes. Please, Oleg Belarus. After him, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Philosophers say that humanity produces only one product, which is a product of a culture that includes architecture. Everything else is current consumption and it's past. I am a person who was born or lived in 39-41 in Lviv, no wonder. And today, the 750th anniversary of Lvov is marked by the collapse of international value, the architecture of monuments. Who does this, who controls it? The Ministry of Culture? They say no. Ministry of Construction and Architecture? Neither did I. I wonder if an international convention to preserve the architecture of European calibre will help us. Maybe it'll help. But the government also needs to take care of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u195	I totally support you because Lviv has lived a lot longer than you've lived for two years, but let the local authorities be responsible for what's going on there. Yavorowski Wolodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u196	He's asking me to give him my colleague's word on the Victor Terrence faction, and I can't refuse him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u197	Please, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u198	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, honestly, I'll pay off my debt. So, dear colleagues, I welcome you for ratifying the previous convention, which opens the way to dual citizenship in Ukraine. So the chairman deliberately, or deliberately, put the whole thing in place, then didn't make proposals that sounded completely out of all the factions. Very. was a statement by Popescu's deputy from “Regions”, others, from “Our Ukraine”, where it was clearly said that an amendment should be made, that the convention was operating within a framework that did not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to emphasize, I want to highlight the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, where it is very clear that the ratification of the convention as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u199	Please, on the subject of this convention is the first. The other one. Please don't blame the chairman. For the presiding officer put to the vote in order to make proposals. The President’s proposal was based on 405 votes, with a total of 411 votes cast. In accordance with the Rules, the next proposal was the President's proposal not to vote. Please don't blame me for anything. Please, Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u200	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I want to support, really, that this is an act of local authority. But I would like to point out to our distinguished colleagues that this is an act of prosecution. Because today we have such examples when there is no proper methodological basis for calculating what is an architectural monument? And it looks like an eye. I mean, for example, the administration that is in Kiev today, headed by Kuharenko. Today, several criminal cases have been opened against him, which he either publishes or gives permission there to build or not build something for the architectural heritage. And if criminal cases are opened, they're still sitting in the Attorney General's Office. And I want to pay attention to that, and this is my parliamentary appeal to the Attorney General's Office to deal with these issues. And the convention, I think, will help us in this matter. That's why we have to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u201	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Oreste Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u203	Orestes Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u204	The Party of Regions fully supports the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. In order to be convincing, I would like to quote what is stated. Vladimir Rybak’s architecture and construction: “In the world, architectural and building control of all stages of construction is practiced. The network of this body should be organized in all regions. If a builder and a local architecture are in the mayor’s pocket, he feels like a fish in the water. State control should not be subordinated to any measure.” I'll do it on my own. Under the leadership of the leader of the Party of Regions, and today the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Yanukovic, was the most successful party in Ukraine, which won the parliamentary elections, is the Party of Regions. Not only will such a builder preserve the national edifice, but he will also build Ukraine, and he will restore what is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u205	For the first time, I heard a call to Yanukovich. It's probably not very good for him. Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u206	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. By paragraph “d” of the convention, part two of the fourth article relies on us, on the side, to introduce legislation that allows for the compulsory alienation of objects of architectural heritage under protection. This standard is contrary to article 41 of our Constitution. We are told that only during military or other actions can it be forced, but with payment. How it will relate to our current legislation, if we adopt such a constitution, I have not received an answer from the reporter. That's why I'm asking that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u207	That's right, Eugene Ivanovich. I was just asking this question to the committee's reporter, Yuri Sergiyyovich. Yeah, it's over. Please, it's a Serbian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u208	I'm ready to answer that question. Let's read carefully what the science department wrote there. Then we can conclude that the Civil Code also contradicts the Constitution, for it states that in case of urgent need to ensure the preservation of history’s monuments and culture, the ransom may be presented without warning. And now I take the Constitution to which you refer, Mr. Kirilchuk: the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the law. So where's the contradiction? You're grasping as well as scientific expertise, you're grasping a piece. That's why we suggested in the first reading that we give it to first reading. When you read it yourself, it's a stupid thing to say. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u209	Well, we have very highly qualified specialists working, so let's not call them that. They wrote, they wrote. The decision is behind us. Yes, we'll vote. I'll put it to a vote. Yavorowski for the reasons for the vote. Yavorowski, please. Yavorowski’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I think it is very important that this be in the transcript and perhaps even our protocol commission to the government. It's a good thing that we're adopting this document today, and we're going to accept it, and our values fit into the system of European values, but so far -- a law that's been passed a long time -- the Cabinet of Ministers still hasn't filed a memoirs. You can imagine, we're talking about what we can privatize, what we can't, what we can't stop, but we don't have the register. As a result, let the adoption of this Convention be a protocol reminder to the government today that such a registration is required in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u211	Thank you. Let's remind the government of that. What's more, the body responsible for this, in this case, the ministry, the minister, there is culture and tourism. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law on ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. Registration number 0036. Please vote. [[13:51:22]] For 419 The law is passed. The Convention on the Protection of Europe’s Architectural Heritage has been ratified. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Contact with Children is under consideration. No questions? Can we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the entire Ratification of the Convention on the Contact with Children Act. Registration number 0031. Please vote. [[13:52:07]] For 408 The law is passed. The children's contact convention has been ratified. Parents, talk more often. The factions? That's understandable. What's with the factions? Who's that? Sulkowski wants to see the factions? Yes, we now have to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Statute of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development – GUAM. Please, Hiccup. Now, now, there's an offer, a request from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u212	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'm probably not going to be original today, taking note that today several of our drafts have been removed, but have been removed in such a regime. I think this bill is very important to us. You've even watched how our Ministry of Finance reacted: it's even dedicated to keeping the organization's headquarters 600,000 dollars. It's very important. But there are certain conditions for today's negotiation process between factions about some nuances in this bill. So I'm asking you very much, and I'd like to move this matter to another term.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, let's agree to the proposal of a profile committee. Let them do some more work so that we can have some results. Is there no objection? Thank you. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism, Registration No. 0037. Any notes? Well, please, the King of the Committee, what a remark. Then Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u214	From the committee. The Scientific and Experimental Authority has made an editorial: the word “paragraph 2 of the second article of the third convention” should be replaced by the word “protocol”. It really is, so please accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u215	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, please. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u216	The Ministry of Justice agrees with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-09-20-m0.u217	Very good. No questions, no comments? I am voting on adoption as a whole as a law on the ratification of a protocol amending the European Convention on the Fight against Terrorism. Registration number 0037. Please be friendly. [[13:54:51]] For 417 The law is passed. The Protocol amending the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism has been ratified. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I was in a bit of a hurry when I announced the extension of the meeting. We have fulfilled the full order of the day today. The morning session is closed. Today, in the afternoon, I work in committees and factions. Tomorrow we start work, like always at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
